

1 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Fewer Dogs and Cats Are Astray, And Fewer Are Killed in Shelters

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
Amid the flurry of year-end statistics, consider this one: New York City put fewer dogs and cats to death this year than in any year on record since the 1890's.
 City shelters put to death 23,684 dogs and cats in 2004, according to Animal Care and Control, the group that runs the city shelters. The figure, which accounts for killings through Dec. 30, is down by about 17 percent from last year, and by more than a third compared with 10 years ago.
 This year's drop was sharp, but not unexpected. The number of animals killed has been falling ever since the 1930's, when spaying and neutering started to become common practice in New York and stray populations began to decline, animal experts said. 
 The number of stray animals peaked in the Depression, according to the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, which has tracked New York's figures since 1894, the year it became the city's animal caretaker. The records show the highest number in 1928, when about 287,000 animals, mostly cats, were killed. 
 ''There are fewer unwanted animals being born,'' said Edward Boks, executive director of New York City Animal Care and Control, which took over the city shelters from the A.S.P.C.A. in 1995.
 The city has not always bragged about declines in killings. At the end of the 19th century, when stray dogs were more likely to carry disease and ran wild, an increase in killings was often taken as a sign of improved animal population control.
 In its 1895 annual report, the A.S.P.C.A. boasted that it had killed more dogs and cats than any city agencies before it, said Stephen Zawistowski, head of national programs for the association.
 Dogs served a different purpose then, said Mr. Zawistowski, who helped compile a report dealing with the history of strays in New York City that was published in the Journal of Applied Animal Welfare Science in 1998.
 Dogs drew carts for ragmen. They ran inside large wheels to turn rotisseries. Only the most affluent New Yorkers had dogs as household companions. Animal protection groups focused on horses. 
 Early methods of killing would raise hackles today. In Manhattan, dogs were put in iron cages and drowned in the East River, Mr. Zawistowski said. In Brooklyn, dogs were clubbed to death.
 ''When economic times are hard for people, they're also hard for their animals,'' Mr. Zawistowski said. During the Depression, he said, ''Cats were proliferating and taking over parts of the city in the warehouse areas and docks. Almost none of the cats were adopted.''
 It was not until after World War II that dogs and cats began to be held as household pets by large numbers of American families, Mr. Zawistowski said. The change was part of a broader social transformation, as average Americans became more affluent.
 By the 1970's, the number of dogs and cats killed each year dropped off precipitously. Spaying and neutering had become socially acceptable ways of controlling unwanted pet populations. In 1972, the A.S.P.C.A. began requiring that all animals up for adoption in its shelters be sterilized.The first low-cost animal sterilization clinic in the country opened in Neptune, N.J., in 1957, said Merritt Clifton, editor of Animal People, a newspaper in Washington State that covers animal protection and keeps national statistics on euthanasia.
 New York has one of the lowest kill rates in the country, when measured against human population. According to Animal People's figures, New York killed 3.2 dogs and cats per 1,000 people in 2004, a rate far below the national average of 17.4 per 1,000. 
 In comparison, San Antonio, with a population of just over one million, killed about 35 animals per 1,000 people in 2003, Mr. Clifton said. The rate in New York should be adjusted upward, he said, to compensate for the fact that there are fewer pets per capita in New York than in other cities.
 Mr. Boks said his organization planned to make it unnecessary to kill any animals within the next four years, largely through sterilization programs and the encouragement of adoptions. New Yorkers began adopting on a large scale in the 1950's and 1960's. This year, adoptions jumped by about half, to 15,587 animals, up from 10,564 in 2003.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATS (93%); ANIMAL CONTROL (92%); ANIMAL WELFARE (92%); ANIMALS (91%); DOGS (90%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (88%); PETS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ZOOLOGY (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Dogs; Cats

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS (56%) Animal Care and Control (NYC)

PERSON: Sabrina Tavernise

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2005



2 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: New Limits on Pollution Herald Change in Europe

BYLINE: By KATRIN BENNHOLD; International Herald Tribune

 BODY:
For Peter Koster, the beginning of 2005 merits more than one glass of Champagne. Mr. Koster, the chief executive and founder of the European Climate Exchange, says he sees new rules on pollution as the dawn of a ''new era for European business.''
 With the arrival of the new year, 12,000 industrial plants across the European Union will face new limits on their carbon dioxide emissions, the first step in putting into practice the requirements of the Kyoto Climate Protocol.
 In February, Mr. Koster's exchange, the first mandatory carbon emissions trading market, will go live, formalizing a system aimed at fighting global warming. 
 The new regulations place limits on the amount of carbon that may be emitted by power, steel, cement and paper pulp plants. Companies that stay within their limits can sell the emission rights they have not used to those that have exceeded their carbon output quotas.
 This ambitious experiment, spanning all 25 European Union countries, is intended to prepare them for the Kyoto treaty, which requires the nations that signed it to cut carbon emissions beginning in 2008. As a result of Russia's ratification of the treaty in October, it will go into effect in February.
 ''Europe will be an example to the world,'' said Mr. Koster, 52, a Dutchman who started the emissions exchange in July. ''It's the first time that you are rewarded for being an environmentally friendly manager.''
 Many European companies fear they will be at a competitive disadvantage compared to their American rivals, which are not subject to compulsory constraints because the United States did not sign the accord.
 A recent poll by the New Economics Foundation in London found that 85 percent of European businesses believed that companies not facing the restrictions of the Kyoto Protocol would have an unfair advantage.
 ''The fact is that between now and 2012, some European companies are going to be heavily affected,'' said Daniel Cloquet, environment spokesman at Unice, the European employers' federation, based in Brussels. 
 The 12,000 plants earmarked by the European Union's three-year preparation period to Kyoto operate mainly in energy-intensive industries like electricity generation, steel, paper, glass, refining and cement. Power generation alone accounts for 55 percent of emissions covered by the plan.
 Analysts at Ilex Energy Consulting, based in Oxford, England, estimate that the combined costs for the affected businesses across Europe could amount to $23 billion in 2005.
 But, according to the European Commission, the executive arm of the European Union, the cost in economic output growth will be less than 0.1 percentage point a year because the regulations will give companies room to adjust.
 In general, emission permits have been handed out generously, and companies have been given the option to invest in emission reduction projects in developing countries as a cheaper way to earn credits.
 ''The psychological hurdles for companies are much higher than the real ones,'' said Peter Zapfel, a climate specialist at the commission. 
 The European plan operates on free-market logic: by allowing plants to trade emission permits, the market will channel investments to companies with the most energy-efficient technologies. At the same time, total carbon emissions permitted under the Kyoto pact remain limited to the number of permits in the market.
 ''You have to look at this as an investment,'' said David Hone, who is the climate change adviser in London for the Royal Dutch/Shell Group.
 Ken Ruffing, the deputy director of the environment directorate at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris, said that as European businesses were forced to pay more attention to their energy consumption, they would be ''leaner and more efficient, and that could turn into a long-term business advantage even if it's a bit painful in the short term.'' 
 Europe is already home to a range of activities that could set global standards for energy-efficiency technology. Some law and accounting firms and investment banks are training employees in the intricacies of emissions trading.
 London, as Europe's financial capital, is building a reputation for expertise in carbon-related finance, while investment trusts and banks like Fortis in Amsterdam and Caisse des Depots et Consignations of France are gearing up for what they expect to be a lucrative business in trading emission rights. 
 Climate Change Capital, the world's first merchant bank entirely dedicated to carbon-related projects, is based in London, as is the government-run Carbon Trust, which advises and supports companies on reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
 London is also home to the European Climate Exchange. Some informal trading started on the exchange last summer and increased sharply after Russia ratified the Kyoto Protocol this fall. By some estimates, activity could surge 20-fold after mandatory trading begins in mid-February. The right to release one ton of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere has already risen in price, trading at around 8.50 euros, or $11.53, on the European exchange's informal market, up from about 6 euros in mid-2003.
 Many executives expect the United States to eventually join some form of post-Kyoto global agreement. They note that some American multinationals with foreign operations must comply with the new regulations but have no opportunity to cash in on emission-reduction efforts at home. In 2003, a group of companies including DuPont, International Paper, Ford Motor, American Electric Power and Motorola established the Chicago Climate Exchange as a pilot program, in the hope of creating a market for member companies and governments to trade emission rights based on voluntary caps. 
 Bruce Braine, vice president of strategic policy analysis at American Electric Power, said eventual American regulation on the issue was inevitable.
 The company, he said, has committed itself to a 10 percent cut in carbon dioxide emissions by 2006. ''We would like to get ourselves geared up for a carbon-constrained world,'' Mr. Braine said.
 The Xerox Corporation has cut carbon dioxide emissions through recycling and by increasing the energy efficiency of its copier machines by 50 percent, said Jack Azar, vice president of environment, health and safety. ''There is a growing awareness in America of the risk of leaving Europe a head start on some of these new technologies,'' he added. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (67%); PULP MILLS (54%) Weather; Air Pollution; Factories and Industrial Plants; Carbon Dioxide; Treaties; Global Warming; Weather; Kyoto Protocol

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%) European Climate Exchange; European Union

PERSON: Katrin Bennhold; Peter Koster

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (91%); BELGIUM (79%); ENGLAND (58%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2005



3 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 2597 words

HEADLINE: The Ends of the World as We Know Them

BYLINE: By Jared Diamond. 
Jared Diamond, who won the 1998 Pulitzer Prize in general nonfiction for ''Guns, Germs and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies,'' is the author of the forthcoming ''Collapse: How Societies Choose or Fail to Succeed.''

DATELINE: Los Angeles 

 BODY:
NEW Year's weekend traditionally is a time for us to reflect, and to make resolutions based on our reflections. In this fresh year, with the United States seemingly at the height of its power and at the start of a new presidential term, Americans are increasingly concerned and divided about where we are going. How long can America remain ascendant? Where will we stand 10 years from now, or even next year?
 Such questions seem especially appropriate this year. History warns us that when once-powerful societies collapse, they tend to do so quickly and unexpectedly. That shouldn't come as much of a surprise: peak power usually means peak population, peak needs, and hence peak vulnerability. What can be learned from history that could help us avoid joining the ranks of those who declined swiftly? We must expect the answers to be complex, because historical reality is complex: while some societies did indeed collapse spectacularly, others have managed to thrive for thousands of years without major reversal. 
 When it comes to historical collapses, five groups of interacting factors have been especially important: the damage that people have inflicted on their environment; climate change; enemies; changes in friendly trading partners; and the society's political, economic and social responses to these shifts. That's not to say that all five causes play a role in every case. Instead, think of this as a useful checklist of factors that should be examined, but whose relative importance varies from case to case.
 For instance, in the collapse of the Polynesian society on Easter Island three centuries ago, environmental problems were dominant, and climate change, enemies and trade were insignificant; however, the latter three factors played big roles in the disappearance of the medieval Norse colonies on Greenland. Let's consider two examples of declines stemming from different mixes of causes: the falls of classic Maya civilization and of Polynesian settlements on the Pitcairn Islands. 
 Maya Native Americans of the Yucatan Peninsula and adjacent parts of Central America developed the New World's most advanced civilization before Columbus. They were innovators in writing, astronomy, architecture and art. From local origins around 2,500 years ago, Maya societies rose especially after the year A.D. 250, reaching peaks of population and sophistication in the late 8th century. 
 Thereafter, societies in the most densely populated areas of the southern Yucatan underwent a steep political and cultural collapse: between 760 and 910, kings were overthrown, large areas were abandoned, and at least 90 percent of the population disappeared, leaving cities to become overgrown by jungle. The last known date recorded on a Maya monument by their so-called Long Count calendar corresponds to the year 909. What happened?
 A major factor was environmental degradation by people: deforestation, soil erosion and water management problems, all of which resulted in less food. Those problems were exacerbated by droughts, which may have been partly caused by humans themselves through deforestation. Chronic warfare made matters worse, as more and more people fought over less and less land and resources. 
 Why weren't these problems obvious to the Maya kings, who could surely see their forests vanishing and their hills becoming eroded? Part of the reason was that the kings were able to insulate themselves from problems afflicting the rest of society. By extracting wealth from commoners, they could remain well fed while everyone else was slowly starving. 
 What's more, the kings were preoccupied with their own power struggles. They had to concentrate on fighting one another and keeping up their images through ostentatious displays of wealth. By insulating themselves in the short run from the problems of society, the elite merely bought themselves the privilege of being among the last to starve.
 Whereas Maya societies were undone by problems of their own making, Polynesian societies on Pitcairn and Henderson Islands in the tropical Pacific Ocean were undone largely by other people's mistakes. Pitcairn, the uninhabited island settled in 1790 by the H.M.S. Bounty mutineers, had actually been populated by Polynesians 800 years earlier. That society, which left behind temple platforms, stone and shell tools and huge garbage piles of fish and bird and turtle bones as evidence of its existence, survived for several centuries and then vanished. Why?
 In many respects, Pitcairn and Henderson are tropical paradises, rich in some food sources and essential raw materials. Pitcairn is home to Southeast Polynesia's largest quarry of stone suited for making adzes, while Henderson has the region's largest breeding seabird colony and its only nesting beach for sea turtles. Yet the islanders depended on imports from Mangareva Island, hundreds of miles away, for canoes, crops, livestock and oyster shells for making tools. 
 Unfortunately for the inhabitants of Pitcairn and Henderson, their Mangarevan trading partner collapsed for reasons similar to those underlying the Maya decline: deforestation, erosion and warfare. Deprived of essential imports in a Polynesian equivalent of the 1973 oil crisis, the Pitcairn and Henderson societies declined until everybody had died or fled.
 The Maya and the Henderson and Pitcairn Islanders are not alone, of course. Over the centuries, many other societies have declined, collapsed or died out. Famous victims include the Anasazi in the American Southwest, who abandoned their cities in the 12th century because of environmental problems and climate change, and the Greenland Norse, who disappeared in the 15th century because of all five interacting factors on the checklist. There were also the ancient Fertile Crescent societies, the Khmer at Angkor Wat, the Moche society of Peru -- the list goes on. 
 But before we let ourselves get depressed, we should also remember that there is another long list of cultures that have managed to prosper for lengthy periods of time. Societies in Japan, Tonga, Tikopia, the New Guinea Highlands and Central and Northwest Europe, for example, have all found ways to sustain themselves. What separates the lost cultures from those that survived? Why did the Maya fail and the shogun succeed?
 Half of the answer involves environmental differences: geography deals worse cards to some societies than to others. Many of the societies that collapsed had the misfortune to occupy dry, cold or otherwise fragile environments, while many of the long-term survivors enjoyed more robust and fertile surroundings. But it's not the case that a congenial environment guarantees success: some societies (like the Maya) managed to ruin lush environments, while other societies -- like the Incas, the Inuit, Icelanders and desert Australian Aborigines -- have managed to carry on in some of the earth's most daunting environments.
 The other half of the answer involves differences in a society's responses to problems. Ninth-century New Guinea Highland villagers, 16th-century German landowners, and the Tokugawa shoguns of 17th-century Japan all recognized the deforestation spreading around them and solved the problem, either by developing scientific reforestation (Japan and Germany) or by transplanting tree seedlings (New Guinea). Conversely, the Maya, Mangarevans and Easter Islanders failed to address their forestry problems and so collapsed.
 Consider Japan. In the 1600's, the country faced its own crisis of deforestation, paradoxically brought on by the peace and prosperity following the Tokugawa shoguns' military triumph that ended 150 years of civil war. The subsequent explosion of Japan's population and economy set off rampant logging for construction of palaces and cities, and for fuel and fertilizer.
 The shoguns responded with both negative and positive measures. They reduced wood consumption by turning to light-timbered construction, to fuel-efficient stoves and heaters, and to coal as a source of energy. At the same time, they increased wood production by developing and carefully managing plantation forests. Both the shoguns and the Japanese peasants took a long-term view: the former expected to pass on their power to their children, and the latter expected to pass on their land. In addition, Japan's isolation at the time made it obvious that the country would have to depend on its own resources and couldn't meet its needs by pillaging other countries. Today, despite having the highest human population density of any large developed country, Japan is more than 70 percent forested.
 There is a similar story from Iceland. When the island was first settled by the Norse around 870, its light volcanic soils presented colonists with unfamiliar challenges. They proceeded to cut down trees and stock sheep as if they were still in Norway, with its robust soils. Significant erosion ensued, carrying half of Iceland's topsoil into the ocean within a century or two. Icelanders became the poorest people in Europe. But they gradually learned from their mistakes, over time instituting stocking limits on sheep and other strict controls, and establishing an entire government department charged with landscape management. Today, Iceland boasts the sixth-highest per-capita income in the world. 
 What lessons can we draw from history? The most straightforward: take environmental problems seriously. They destroyed societies in the past, and they are even more likely to do so now. If 6,000 Polynesians with stone tools were able to destroy Mangareva Island, consider what six billion people with metal tools and bulldozers are doing today. Moreover, while the Maya collapse affected just a few neighboring societies in Central America, globalization now means that any society's problems have the potential to affect anyone else. Just think how crises in Somalia, Afghanistan and Iraq have shaped the United States today. 
 Other lessons involve failures of group decision-making. There are many reasons why past societies made bad decisions, and thereby failed to solve or even to perceive the problems that would eventually destroy them. One reason involves conflicts of interest, whereby one group within a society (for instance, the pig farmers who caused the worst erosion in medieval Greenland and Iceland) can profit by engaging in practices that damage the rest of society. Another is the pursuit of short-term gains at the expense of long-term survival, as when fishermen overfish the stocks on which their livelihoods ultimately depend. 
 History also teaches us two deeper lessons about what separates successful societies from those heading toward failure. A society contains a built-in blueprint for failure if the elite insulates itself from the consequences of its actions. That's why Maya kings, Norse Greenlanders and Easter Island chiefs made choices that eventually undermined their societies. They themselves did not begin to feel deprived until they had irreversibly destroyed their landscape.
 Could this happen in the United States? It's a thought that often occurs to me here in Los Angeles, when I drive by gated communities, guarded by private security patrols, and filled with people who drink bottled water, depend on private pensions, and send their children to private schools. By doing these things, they lose the motivation to support the police force, the municipal water supply, Social Security and public schools. If conditions deteriorate too much for poorer people, gates will not keep the rioters out. Rioters eventually burned the palaces of Maya kings and tore down the statues of Easter Island chiefs; they have also already threatened wealthy districts in Los Angeles twice in recent decades.
 In contrast, the elite in 17th-century Japan, as in modern Scandinavia and the Netherlands, could not ignore or insulate themselves from broad societal problems. For instance, the Dutch upper class for hundreds of years has been unable to insulate itself from the Netherlands' water management problems for a simple reason: the rich live in the same drained lands below sea level as the poor. If the dikes and pumps keeping out the sea fail, the well-off Dutch know that they will drown along with everybody else, which is precisely what happened during the floods of 1953.
 The other deep lesson involves a willingness to re-examine long-held core values, when conditions change and those values no longer make sense. The medieval Greenland Norse lacked such a willingness: they continued to view themselves as transplanted Norwegian pastoralists, and to despise the Inuit as pagan hunters, even after Norway stopped sending trading ships and the climate had grown too cold for a pastoral existence. They died off as a result, leaving Greenland to the Inuit. On the other hand, the British in the 1950's faced up to the need for a painful reappraisal of their former status as rulers of a world empire set apart from Europe. They are now finding a different avenue to wealth and power, as part of a united Europe.
 In this New Year, we Americans have our own painful reappraisals to face. Historically, we viewed the United States as a land of unlimited plenty, and so we practiced unrestrained consumerism, but that's no longer viable in a world of finite resources. We can't continue to deplete our own resources as well as those of much of the rest of the world. 
 Historically, oceans protected us from external threats; we stepped back from our isolationism only temporarily during the crises of two world wars. Now, technology and global interconnectedness have robbed us of our protection. In recent years, we have responded to foreign threats largely by seeking short-term military solutions at the last minute. 
 But how long can we keep this up? Though we are the richest nation on earth, there's simply no way we can afford (or muster the troops) to intervene in the dozens of countries where emerging threats lurk -- particularly when each intervention these days can cost more than $100 billion and require more than 100,000 troops. 
 A genuine reappraisal would require us to recognize that it will be far less expensive and far more effective to address the underlying problems of public health, population and environment that ultimately cause threats to us to emerge in poor countries. In the past, we have regarded foreign aid as either charity or as buying support; now, it's an act of self-interest to preserve our own economy and protect American lives.
 Do we have cause for hope? Many of my friends are pessimistic when they contemplate the world's growing population and human demands colliding with shrinking resources. But I draw hope from the knowledge that humanity's biggest problems today are ones entirely of our own making. Asteroids hurtling at us beyond our control don't figure high on our list of imminent dangers. To save ourselves, we don't need new technology: we just need the political will to face up to our problems of population and the environment.
 I also draw hope from a unique advantage that we enjoy. Unlike any previous society in history, our global society today is the first with the opportunity to learn from the mistakes of societies remote from us in space and in time. When the Maya and Mangarevans were cutting down their trees, there were no historians or archaeologists, no newspapers or television, to warn them of the consequences of their actions. We, on the other hand, have a detailed chronicle of human successes and failures at our disposal. Will we choose to use it?


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Tim Lane) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); CLIMATE CHANGE (87%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (74%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); LAND DEGRADATION (71%); DROUGHT (71%); DEFORESTATION (66%); POLITICS (65%); EROSION (63%) Environment; Population; Computers and the Internet; Politics and Government; Mayans

PERSON: Jared Diamond

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); PITCAIRN (79%); GREENLAND (79%) Polynesia

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2005



4 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1924 words

HEADLINE: Drugstores Fret as Insurers Demand Pills by Mail

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
Employer health plans across the country are forcing millions of consumers to change their drug-buying habits. And one side effect could be the decline of the neighborhood drugstore. 
 Instead of picking up their medicines at a local pharmacy, growing numbers of consumers will be required -- starting this month when new health plans take effect -- to buy dozens of widely used drugs, like insulin for diabetes or Lipitor to lower cholesterol, by mail order. 
 Employers and the companies that manage prescription drug insurance coverage favor mail-order pharmacies because they can get lucrative rebates and deep discounts from drug makers when they buy in volume. Those savings, which are said to amount to hundreds of millions of dollars a year, can then be shared with employers and health plans. 
 Distributing drugs by mail order also gives the drug-insurance managers -- known as pharmacy-benefit managers -- more control over which drugs are used, because they can ask doctors to change prescriptions before the drugs are delivered. 
 Across the country, many state and city governments, as well as private employers, already require employees to obtain their medications for chronic conditions through the mail. Early last year, General Motors, Ford, DaimlerChrysler and the United Automobile Workers introduced a mandatory mail-order requirement, which now applies to more than two million auto industry workers and retirees. 
 As drug costs continue to rise, the changeover is accelerating. The switch has already been met with resistance from some consumers who complain that they are losing the help of a knowledgeable, trusted friend -- their local pharmacist. For independent pharmacists who depend on walk-in business, the shift to mail-order prescriptions can be devastating. 
 ''It's going to kill the little guys,'' said Howard Baskind, owner of Prospect Gardens Pharmacy in the Park Slope section of Brooklyn. ''We have a lot of teachers,'' he said. 
 The health plan of the United Teachers Federation in New York changed its rules last spring, forcing its members to turn to mail order for medicines for chronic conditions. Prescriptions for chronic conditions like some heart diseases, blood pressure problems and thyroid deficiency account for 40 percent of all retail drug sales.
 Mail-order drug sales rose to $32.5 billion in the 12 months ending in September, a 16 percent increase compared with the same period in 2003, according to IMS Health, a pharmaceutical consulting company.
 The big drugstore chains -- Walgreen, CVS Pharmacy and Rite Aid -- have said that they have already been hurt by the move toward mail-order sales. 
 But the hardest hit are independent drugstores, which lack the big chains' ability to demand discounted wholesale prices on generic and over-the-counter drugs. In Michigan, the effect of the auto industry's rules has been immediate.
 ''I was down 700 prescriptions in June,'' said Jack Poll, who closed Pfeffers, a 76-year-old pharmacy in Wyoming, Mich., outside of Grand Rapids, in September. Many of his customers were retired workers from a nearby former General Motors factory.
 Pfeffers used to fill 6,000 prescriptions a month before the auto workers switched to mail order, Mr. Poll said. Like many drugstores, it was already under pressure from low-paying managed care plans and competition from Internet pharmacies and drugs imported from Canada, but ''the U.A.W. contract really precipitated the closing,'' Mr. Poll said. 
 At least 30 pharmacies in the state were closed or sold to chains last year, according to the Michigan Pharmacists Association, a professional group that is lobbying the state legislature for a prohibition on making mail-order prescriptions mandatory.
 Political pressure, however, is unlikely to reverse how drugs are purchased. 
 More than half of large employers will require mandatory mail-order drug purchasing in 2005, said Helen Darling, president of the National Business Group on Health, which represents more than 200 companies that provide benefits for 45 million people. She estimated that about 30 percent of the companies were already in mandatory mail plans. The New York Times, which has required nonunion employees to order medications for chronic conditions by mail for several years, recently added a mandatory mail pharmacy requirement for union employees.
 ''It's definitely a trend,'' Ms. Darling said. 
 General Motors, which spent $1.3 billion on prescription drugs for its workers and retirees in 2003, has been trying for years to persuade its employees to order prescriptions by mail. The auto companies have made mail order mandatory for more than 150 drugs for chronic conditions. The requirement applied first to nonunion workers and retirees, and was expanded in January 2004 to cover all 1.1 million people eligible for drug benefits from G.M. after the auto workers union accepted the idea. 
 Cost was only one of the considerations, said Cynthia Kirman, director of pharmacy in the G.M. corporate benefits office. Besides saving money, she said, the mail service is a convenience for retirees who go south in the winter. Mail also makes it easier for Medco Health Solutions, G.M.'s pharmacy benefit manager and the nation's largest mail-order pharmacy operator, to help monitor elderly patients' use of drugs like the tranquilizer Valium, which could be addictive, she said.
 Retired auto workers like Mary L. Ettinger, 71, however, are unhappy about the change. 
 Ms. Ettinger, who used to work on the assembly line at Oldsmobile, said the company and her union ''sold me down the river.'' 
 ''My biggest worry is my insulin,'' said Ms. Ettinger, who has diabetes and also takes medicine for back problems that she said resulted from her time ''pushing engine heads down the line.'' For her, shipping insulin makes little sense when she can pick it up at the drugstore that she has patronized for years.
 Instead, a delivery truck drops off the insulin, chilled by gelatin packs in a foam cooler, at the front door of her house in Lansing, Mich. When she complained that cold packs were warm, possibly compromising the insulin, the customer service person at Medco offered to send a new batch -- and charge her for the shipping, she said. 
 ''They just don't care, period,'' Ms. Ettinger said. After a reporter called Medco to ask about her complaint, Medco promised Ms. Ettinger that it would notify her before each insulin shipment. Ms. Ettinger also said she finds it ''a little scary'' that other pills are left in her mailbox on the street. A passerby could steal the container, which rattles when shaken because the pills are shipped without protective cotton, she said. But Stephen Heller, 60, a retired senior manager at Verizon Communications, who receives a painkiller for arthritis in a mandatory mail program from Medco, said he was ''very happy with the service,'' which he used several times last year. When his doctor's office was slow in completing paperwork on the order, Mr. Heller said, a representative from Medco called to offer to reimburse him if the delay forced him to pay a higher price at a pharmacy. 
 Consumers who use mail order for drugs for chronic conditions are often required to buy a 90-day supply, and typically pay a smaller co-pay amount on a 90-day order than they would pay at a pharmacy for three 30-day prescriptions.
 Pharmacy benefit managers like Medco, Caremark Rx and Express Scripts check the customers' eligibility and handle payments to manufacturers and stores electronically, for which they receive fees. But they make most of their profits by selling drugs by mail order, according to Wall Street analysts. 
 These companies buy drugs from manufacturers at discounted prices and are paid for them by employers and other health plans, as well as members of the plans.
 Lawrence Marsh, a health care securities analyst at Lehman Brothers, estimated that Medco, Caremark and Express get 7 percent to 8 percent of their annual revenues, about $500 million total, as their share of rebates from drug makers, mainly through mail sales. 
 The pharmacy benefit managers say that they inform the health plans about the rebates they receive from the drug makers, but Sean Brandle, a health benefits expert with the Segal company, a benefits and compensation consulting firm, said that not all of this money was passed along and the pharmacy managers' actual costs were hard to determine. The benefit managers, he said, ''would never disclose their actual purchase cost of a drug at mail order.'' 
 Medco said its mail sales rose to $3.4 billion in the third quarter, up 21 percent from the same period in 2003. Express Scripts' mail-order sales increased 41.7 percent, to $1.4 billion, in the three months ending Sept. 30. Caremark, which in March bought AdvancePCS, a big pharmacy benefits manager, doubled its mail revenues to $2.19 billion in the third quarter, a prime reason, it said, for a 41 percent increase in quarterly profits.
 These results from mail orders, not surprisingly, are considered a serious threat by drugstore chains, which are fighting back. ''Mom-and-pop stores are going out of business,'' said Meredith Adler, a retail drugstore analyst at Lehman Brothers. ''But the chains would like to play in the mail-order game.'' 
 Walgreen and CVS, the two largest chains, have come up with defensive tactics on several fronts. Walgreen, for example, has created its own pharmacy benefit management unit to serve health plans, with a network of 40,000 pharmacies, including 4,700 Walgreen stores, to try to compete with companies like Medco. 
 Walgreen offers customers a choice of buying a 90-day supply by mail service or in the stores, said Michael Polzin, a company spokesman. The chain also uses MedImpact, another drug benefit manager, that arranges for discounted 90-day prescriptions that can be picked up at a drugstore. MedImpact offers that choice to health plans at the same price as mail-order service. 
 Walgreen saw an opportunity to announce that it would no longer fill orders for state employees in Ohio at any its 161 Ohio stores after state employees switched their mandatory mail contract from Medco to Express Scripts in 2004. 
 ''If we become aware of any mandatory features as contracts take effect, we will drop them,'' Mr. Polzin said. The stores said they also would not accept drug cards from Ohio state employees for short-term medications like antibiotics, even though those drugs are not on the mandatory mail order list. 
 CVS, which has 5,300 stores, has also stopped serving a few health plans that have mandatory drug mail-order provisions, said Dave Rickard, an executive vice president at CVS. The chain is planning to offer 90-day prescriptions in the stores, for the same price as by mail. CVS bought one of the nation's largest pharmacy benefit management units from the Eckerd chain this year. 
 Mr. Rickard said that filling a 90-day prescription in a store was ''less profitable than filling it for 30 days three times, but more profitable than watching the business go off to mail order that you don't participate in.'' 
 Rite Aid, the third-largest drug chain, blamed the loss of auto workers' business as one of several reasons for disappointing financial results in 2004. (It said another factor was the relatively late start of the flu season.) Mary Sammons, chief executive of Rite Aid, also said in a conference call with analysts in December that Rite Aid had been considering acquiring or starting its own pharmacy benefit management unit.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Compelled under her health plan to get prescriptions by mail, Mary Ettinger, a retired autoworker, said she was unhappy with the service. (Photo by Andrew Sacks for The New York Times)
An inspection line for bottles filled with pills by dispensing machines at a Medco Health Solutions distribution center in Willingboro, N.J. (Photo by Bradley C. Bower for The New York Times)(pg. C4)
 A dispensing station at a Medco Health Solutions center in Willingboro, N.J., which fills prescriptions by mail. (Photo by Bradley C. Bower for The New York Times)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (92%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (92%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (91%); PHARMACIES (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACISTS (89%); CHRONIC DISEASES (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); DRUG PRICES (78%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (77%); DIABETES (76%); INSURANCE (75%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (73%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (72%); RETAIL SALES (64%); TEACHER UNIONS (62%); HEART DISEASE (60%); CHOLESTEROL (56%); CITIES (52%); CITY GOVERNMENT (52%) Medicine and Health; Drugstores; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Mail Order Companies; Rebates; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); IMS HEALTH INC (51%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: Milt Freudenheim

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2005



5 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Is Norway's Oil Pool Deep Enough?; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: Aging Baby Boomers Loom Over a Fund Financed by Petroleum

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: OSLO 

 BODY:
The newspaper cartoons here often portray Per-Kristian Foss, the finance minister of Norway, buoyed by a spouting geyser of oil. Sometimes they show him bathing in vats of cash. It is easy to see why.
 Quietly and with characteristic modesty, Norway has turned the income from 3.3 million barrels a day of offshore oil production into a government-owned investment fund that recently, for the first time, topped one trillion kroner, or about $165 billion.
 That makes it one of the world's richest funds, in the same league as the $180 billion fund of the California Public Employees' Retirement System, the biggest public pension system in the United States, and only slightly smaller than ABP, the Dutch pension fund, which has more than $200 billion in assets. 
 Yet there may be trouble ahead. 
 Much as economic managers like Mr. Foss relish the oil income that has made Norwegian budget deficits a thing of the past, they are also coming to terms with another reality. As in the United States and much of western Europe, aging baby boomers in Norway represent a pension time bomb, creating worries akin to those that are pressing the Bush administration to deal with the unfinanced promises of Social Security. 
 While the fund is growing rapidly, its cash stream elevated by oil income and high oil prices, Norway is discovering that even its oil gusher cannot forever stave off the retirement financing crunch.
 Already, Norway's economists worry that politicians are taking too big a slice of the fund's earnings to cover continuing budget gaps. Some politicians worry that rivals will turn the fund into a financing source for pork-barrel favoritism. And certain businessmen, led by Fred Olsen, a shipping and oil rig magnate, want the government to use the fund more aggressively to promote Norwegian entrepreneurship around the world.
 ''It is completely passive now,'' Mr. Olsen said of the way the government is handling Norway's oil wealth. ''They are not trying to build up anything.'' 
 Next year, just as its oil production is expected to begin its decline, Norway plans to rename the Petroleum Fund the Pension Fund, Mr. Foss said in an interview here. The idea is to signal that the fund should be more of a cash reserve for the future than a source of immediate income.
 ''It is only a symbol,'' Mr. Foss said. ''It will not be managed as a pension fund.'' He said he wanted to ''keep in people's minds that this money is to be used for pensions in the years to come.'' 
 That could be in the years 2020 to 2030 -- long after the current attempt to overhaul the nation's 37-year-old pension system.
 Even so, the oil money will only go so far. Norway's central bank, which administers the fund, said recently that it would be able to meet no more than one-quarter of Norway's pension obligations. The rest must come from taxpayers.
 None of that has quite erased the sense of novelty surrounding the fund since payments were first made into it in 1996 and, most significantly, since its size began to swell substantially in recent years as markets recovered from the slump of the early 2000's. The fund has grown even more rapidly during this year's spike in oil prices.
 In 2004 alone, according to government figures, its capital grew by $33 billion, bolstering Norway's reputation as one of Europe's richest countries. At its current level, the fund holds about $40,000 for each of the 4.5 million people living here.
 ''There has never been a generation as rich as this one,'' said Oystein Djupedal, an opposition legislator.
 That is not, however, to suggest that this cautious land has embarked on a spending spree. For all the oil wealth, there are few designer boutiques here or late-model luxury cars on the roads. (The average age of Norwegian cars is more than 10 years.)
 Rather, Norway seeks to offer a model of cautious investing and fiscal restraint, a lesson learned painfully in the 1980's, before the fund was set up, when a sudden drop in the price of oil plunged the nation into a protracted economic crisis. Its oil fund managers say its operations are more open to the public than those of some other oil funds across the globe, from Kuwait to Alaska.
 To reduce risk, the fund is split 40-60 into investments in equities and fixed-income instruments. It is spread geographically, with a slight weighting toward western Europe; it holds stocks in some 2,000 companies in 30 countries, including the United States, according to its director, Knut Kjaer. To hold down inflationary pressures at home, the fund invests exclusively outside Norway.
 For all the wealth it has been accumulating, however, Norway, like the rest of Europe's aging societies, is looking to a future in which retirees living longer and longer lives will rely on a narrower and narrower base of taxpayers to support them.
 Scandinavia, in particular, is contemplating a painful retreat from the extravagant welfare systems that have provided its citizens with some of the best public services in the world -- along with some of the highest taxes.
 The Norwegian government has drawn up sweeping proposals for revising its state pension system. As a starting point, officials are contemplating whether to raise the official retirement age to qualify for a full pension to 67, from 62. At the same time, Oslo wants to slow annual increases in state pensions, which currently average around $19,000 a year, according to government estimates. (Many Norwegians have company pensions on top of the state pension).
 The proposals also suggest a stronger commitment by companies to creating contributory company pension schemes, and they raise the possibility, as in the United States, of personal pension accounts. The Norwegian proposals foresee such accounts being financed, as they are in Sweden, by mandatory individual contributions.
 In this debate, though, the oil fund is not only a potential cushion for the future but also a tempting pot of gold for politicians.
 ''A lot of voters will say: 'Why should we cut pensions when we are so rich?''' said Mr. Djupedal, a legislator in the opposition Socialist Left Party.
 Norwegian economic managers say they are being cautious with their use of oil revenues, planning to transfer no more than 4 percent of the fund's revenues each year to help balance the annual budget. The fund's managers say that rate represents the same level as the expected long-term real return on investment, which will allow the fund to grow to at least $300 billion by 2009.
 In reality, though, said Steinar Juel, the chief economist at Nordea Bank here, the transfers from the fund to finance the budget deficit hit about $11 billion this year, or 10 percent of expenditures.
 ''It is a bad trend,'' Mr. Juel said. ''The disciplinary effect of the rule is disappearing.''
 Many politicians make little secret of their desire to draw more heavily from the fund, although they acknowledge economists' warnings that a huge injection of oil money directly into Norwegians' pockets would fuel inflation and weaken other parts of the economy.
 And some argue that their constituents do not accept that the authorities have to be so cautious or invest the fund's entire portfolio in foreign companies.
 ''The 4 percent rule is a silly rule,'' said Siv Jensen, a legislator from the opposition Progress Party. ''What we should do is spend some of our riches changing the tax system, investing in research and development, better education, infrastructure.''
 Depending on the effectiveness of such investments, that may or may not help on the pensions front.
 According to government calculations, the annual cost of retiree benefits will double by 2030 from the current annual level of around $18 billion, as the number of pension claimants rises to 1.4 million from around a million at present. At the same time, tax revenues will come under increasing pressure: while Norway currently has around 2.5 working taxpayers for each retiree, by 2050, that proportion will fall to 1.6 workers for every pensioner.
 The trend is familiar across Europe, but oil money adds a particular twist.
 ''We have become very lazy because of our wealth,'' Ms. Jensen, the opposition legislator, said. ''We don't make reforms because we don't have to, because of oil, because we can always take a few billion kroner and just solve everything.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Oil tankers docked at the Statoil Mongstad oil refinery, which is Europe's second biggest oil port. Offshore oil production has helped finance a government-owned investment fund that now exceeds $165 billion. Many have designs on that money. (Photo by Rogan Macdonald/Bloomberg News)(pg. C1)
Per-Kristian Foss, left, the finance minister of Norway, is in charge of one of the world's richest funds, which is about to be renamed the Pension Fund, but only symbolically. It may not stave off a retirement crunch. (Photo by Rogan Macdonald/Bloomberg News)
 (Photo by Glenn Rokeberg for The New York Times)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); AGING (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (62%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Taxation; Finances

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (57%)

PERSON: Alan Cowell; Per-Kristian (Min) Foss

GEOGRAPHIC: OSLO, NORWAY (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NORWAY (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%) Norway; Norway

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2005



6 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: The Saudi Syndrome

 BODY:
The next time you consider the purchase of a family car that matches satisfying heft with infinitesimal mileage per gallon, you might want to think about where some of that gas money will ultimately be going. Part of the price of every extra gallon helps, albeit indirectly, to finance mosques and religious schools all over the world that spread a fanatical variant of Islam that sees legitimacy in terrorist attacks. This financing, amounting to billions of dollars a year, comes from the government and private charities of Saudi Arabia, a country that is now taking in roughly $80 billion a year from oil exports. 
 Saudi Arabia is the source of only 15 percent of America's imported oil. But since oil is an interchangeable commodity in world markets, every barrel America imports, even if it comes from Venezuela, Nigeria or Mexico, helps push up the prices received by Saudi Arabia, the world's biggest oil exporter. America now imports well over half of the oil it consumes, and more than half of United States consumption is in the form of motor vehicle fuels. Thanks to America's gas guzzlers, China's booming factories and other thirsty consuming nations, this has been an extremely profitable year for oil exporting countries. Overall global demand is at record levels, and OPEC's production recently reached its highest since 1979. Even with the latest slippage in oil prices, Saudi Arabia's low production costs allow it to reap a hefty markup on every barrel sold.
 The Saudi government, itself under assault from Al Qaeda, is not in the business of directly financing terrorism, and since 9/11 it has responded to American pressure to control the flow of charitable funds to active terrorist groups. But what it still pays for, and what the religious charities its citizens are obliged to contribute to pay for, is a worldwide network of mosques, schools and Islamic centers that proselytize the belligerent and intolerant Wahhabi variant of Islam that is dominant in Saudi Arabia. As a result of this oil-financed largess, the teachings of more tolerant and humane Muslim leaders are losing ground in countries like Indonesia and Pakistan. Wahhabi mosques that glorify armed jihad have also made alarming gains among the Muslim populations of Europe and the United States. 
 For years, Saudi Arabian oil money bankrolled the Taliban regime in Afghanistan and provided financial support to Pakistan's government. It was Saudi aid that allowed Pakistan to defy international sanctions imposed over its nuclear bomb testing. Without Saudi money there is some question whether chronically impoverished Pakistan could have ever afforded to develop nuclear weapons and the crucial bomb-related technologies that its scientists passed on to Iran, Libya, North Korea and perhaps other countries as well. 
 There is no sinister Saudi conspiracy at work here. This is just what anyone should expect to happen when mind-boggling sums of oil money flow into an absolute monarchy that bases its legitimacy on puritanical militant Islam and offers no pretense of political accountability or transparent accounting. The more copiously that oil money flows, the less pressure a divided Saudi royal family feels to undertake the kind of difficult political and economic reforms that might conceivably break the nexus between oil and terror. 
 The Saudi syndrome is not the only reason Americans need to get much more serious about energy conservation. But it is a powerfully compelling one. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (77%); AL-QAEDA (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); TALIBAN (76%); CARTELS (74%); PHILANTHROPY (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Editorials; Automobiles; Islam; Mosques; Terrorism; International Trade and World Market; Finances; Fuel Efficiency ; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Philanthropy

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NIGERIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); INDONESIA (79%) Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2005



7 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: Venezuelan Inflation Falls

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Venezuela's annual inflation rate fell to a three-year low as government-set price controls and an increase in the sale of dollars at the official exchange rate slowed price growth during an economic recovery.
 Inflation dropped to 19.2 percent this year, from 27.1 percent in 2003 and 31.2 percent in 2002, the central bank said in a statement yesterday. 
Consumer prices rose 1.6 percent in December after an increase of 1.7 percent in November.
 ''The price controls are keeping inflation artificially lower than it otherwise would be,'' said Richard Francis, an analyst with Standard & Poor's in New York.
 The government sets prices on about half of the items in the central bank's consumer price index, helping curb inflation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); TRENDS (72%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2005



8 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; ASIA'S DEADLY WAVES: DIPLOMACY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: U.S. VOWS BIG RISE IN AID FOR VICTIMS OF ASIAN DISASTER

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and WARREN HOGE; David E. Sanger reported from Crawford, Tex., for this article and Warren Hoge from the United Nations.

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Tex., Dec. 31 

 BODY:
President Bush announced Friday that he would increase emergency aid to stricken areas of Asia to $350 million from $35 million, and said the United States would probably add more resources as the scope of what he called an ''epic disaster'' became clearer.
 At the United Nations, Jan Egeland, the emergency aid coordinator, said the new American money had increased the overall amount donated to nearly $1.2 billion from 40 nations, with new pledges continuing to come in hourly. ''I've never, ever seen such an outpouring of international assistance in any international disaster, ever,'' he said.
 Mr. Bush's ninefold increase in the amount of aid was the second time this week that the United States had committed more money to the effort, and it came after criticism that the president, who has stayed on his 1,600-acre ranch all week and spoken publicly about the disaster once, had reacted too slowly. 
 President Bush reacted angrily on Wednesday to a suggestion from Mr. Egeland that the leading economies of the world had been stingy in providing foreign aid generally, and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell spent much of the week defending the speed with which the United States was responding to the calamity. 
 In a written statement on Friday, Mr. Bush said he decided on the increase after Mr. Powell and the director of the Agency for International Development, Andrew Natsios, told him that ''initial findings of American assessment teams on the ground indicate that the need for financial and other assistance will steadily increase in the days and weeks ahead.''
 As recently as Thursday, a senior State Department official deeply involved in the rescue efforts said Washington had not received any word from any assessment team asking for more money. But the official added that when such requests came in, he was certain the money would be available.
 Mr. Powell was visibly annoyed later on Thursday when asked about other nations, with far smaller economies, which had initially committed more funds than the United States. ''I don't know yet what the United States' contribution will be,'' he said on ABC's ''Nightline,'' ''and what we have to do is make a needs assessment and not just grasp at numbers or think we're in some kind of an auction house where every day somebody has to top someone else.''
 Asked about the new, higher figure at the United Nations on Friday after he met with Secretary General Kofi Annan, Mr. Powell said he had received information in the morning from Mr. Natsios that justified the rise. ''What I wanted to do is to make sure that I had a basis to go to the president and make the recommendation that he commit this amount of money, and not just that each day everybody was trying to play, 'Can you top this ?''' he said.
 With the newly announced commitment, the United States moves from the middle of the pack of countries that have announced aid to the region to the top. The $350 million is more than three times the amount committed by Britain, and it is $100 million more than the World Bank's contribution so far.
 A White House spokesman, Trent Duffy, said that the $350 million would come ''from existing accounts,'' but that the administration might have to ask Congress next month to replenish emergency funds. But he dismissed suggestions by Democrats, including Senator Patrick Leahy of Vermont, that the United States could draw on some of the $16 billion authorized for Iraq reconstruction that has not been spent.
 ''It's not coming from Iraq money, if that's what you are asking,'' Mr. Duffy told reporters.
 White House officials are clearly sensitive about the charge that they responded too slowly, and Mr. Bush listed Friday a series of actions the United States had already taken. They included the dispatch of an aircraft carrier, the Abraham Lincoln, and an amphibious ship carrying a Marine expeditionary unit. But the ships are not in position, and several officials said the distance they have to travel would cost precious time.
 The United States surrendered its bases in the Philippines more than a decade ago, and one senior American diplomat in Asia noted Thursday that ''we're all paying the price for that a bit'' because those bases would have put American forces closer to the destruction at the tip of Sumatra.
 In his statement, Mr. Bush noted that the United States had created a coordination ''core group'' with Australia, India and Japan.
 ''I am confident many more nations will join this core group in short order,'' Mr. Bush said in his statement. ''Reports of strong charitable donations are also very encouraging and reflect the true generosity and compassion of the American people.''
 Mr. Powell sought to allay suspicions at the United Nations that in setting up the core group, the United States was competing for leadership of the relief effort with the world organization, with which the administration has had strained relations.
 ''We created the core group earlier in the week because we saw a need for a coordination mechanism to be created rather quickly and rested on countries that were nearby in the region with assets, experience and capability that could be brought to bear right away,'' he said. Its ultimate purpose, he added, was to bring international organizations ''into play under the overall supervision and leadership of the United Nations.''
 Mr. Powell plans to leave for Indonesia and Sri Lanka on Sunday along with the president's brother, Governor Jeb Bush of Florida. Mr. Bush said he was sending his brother because the series of hurricanes that hit Florida had given him a particular expertise in disaster relief. There was also symbolism in sending a member of his family who has instant access to the president. 
 Lionel Rosenblatt, president emeritus of Refugees International, a Washington-based advocacy group, said that he thought the visit by Mr. Powell would help to free up needed resources but said that it was a mistake not to include a high-level United Nations representative. ''We see in places like Aceh that they are still without any sort of relief presence yet and it may involve opening airports, bulldozing new airstrips and bringing in other help, and those are the kinds of problems that Powell can begin to solve with a phone call that would take the normal machinery days to turn around,'' he said.
 ''But I also think it is imperative to take a very senior member of the U.N. along,'' he added, ''so that the U.N. leadership of the relief system remains intact and indeed enhanced.''
 Traditionally, Mr. Bush appears around New Year's at the one coffee shop in this single-stoplight town a few miles from his ranch, sometimes holding an impromptu news conference by the gas pumps outside. But Mr. Bush never left the ranch on Friday. His spokesman said he was entertaining friends.
 The question about donation levels also sparked a new spat with France. The French ambassador to the United States, Jean-David Levitte, wrote a letter to Mr. Natsios saying he was ''surprised to learn of the shocking and uncalled for comments you thought fit to make during an interview'' on Wednesday on Fox news. 
 Mr. Natsios had observed that France was not a major donor to other nations, saying ''they do not tend to be dominant figures in aid.'' He praised Britain, Japan, the European Union, Canada and Australia.
 Mr. Levitte disputed that assessment, saying that France, with an economy a fraction of the size of the United States', had already given about $28 million for tsunami relief, or only $7 million less than the United States until its announcement on Friday. ''I would be interested in learning your reasons for misguidedly impugning France this way,'' he wrote. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 8, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 1 about the global relief effort for Asian nations struck by the tsunami misstated the Bush administration's first pledge of aid. (Several later articles about the disaster also misstated the first pledge.) The administration pledged $4 million on Dec. 27 for the International Red Cross and raised the figure to $15 million later that day for the total American effort. That figure was raised to $35 million on Dec. 28 and to $350 million on Dec. 31. The first pledge was neither $35 million nor $15 million. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); TSUNAMIS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Earthquakes; Tidal Waves; Foreign Aid; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%) United Nations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) David E Sanger; Warren Hoge; Jan Egeland

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; United States

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2005



9 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: Late Stock Market Rally Makes 2004 a Winning Year

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
As 2004 ended, investors had plenty of reasons to breathe sighs of relief.
 The war in Iraq raged on, the Federal Reserve began raising short-term interest rates, oil prices topped $55 a barrel, the presidential election went down to the wire and the stock market spent most of the year in the doldrums, yet the three main market gauges finished up for the year yesterday and are at their highest levels in three and a half years.
 Much of the gains for the year came in a powerful postelection rally, and many investors just ''think that they dodged a bullet in 2004,'' said Bob Froehlich, chief investment strategist at Deutsche Asset Management.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was the best performer for the year, rising 9 percent, followed by the Nasdaq composite index, which climbed 8.6 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 3.1 percent. All three indexes slipped slightly in light trading yesterday. 
 Before the presidential election, the Dow and the Nasdaq were down for the year, while the S.&P. was up just 1.7 percent. The 7.2 percent surge in the Dow after Nov.1 was the fifth-best postelection rally in a presidential year since 1900 and the best since 1952, according to Ned Davis Research. For the Nasdaq, the 9.9 percent postelection climb was the second best since the index began in 1971 and the strongest such rally since 1992.
 The year-end rally has fueled optimism for more of the same in 2005 : stocks up in the high single digits and corporate earnings growing at about the same pace.
 ''We are optimistic,'' said Timothy J. Leach, chief investment officer at U.S. Trust. He is expecting only a modest increase in interest rates and ''not a huge amount of inflationary pressure.'' 
 A look at market history also favors a good year. The first year after the 1984, 1988 and 1996 elections, in which the presidency did not change party, was great for the stock market, with an average return for the S.&P. of 28.2 percent. And for years ending in five, the average gain for the S.&P. is 28.5 percent, going back to 1935.
 For 2004, the energy, utility and telecom sectors were the best performers among the 10 broad categories in the S.&P. 500, up 28.8 percent, 19.6 percent, and 16 percent, respectively.
 But it was the three sectors that were down for the year before the election -- health care, information technology and consumer staples -- that led the postelection rally. And they ended the year slightly higher, as investors seemed willing to take on some risk by picking up bargains after the political outlook was clearer and the price of oil was falling. 
 Among the best performers for the year was Kmart Holding, up 313 percent. Kmart came out of bankruptcy in 2003 and bought Sears, Roebuck in November to create the nation's third-largest retailer. Apple Computer was up 201 percent, bolstered by its iPod. Google more than doubled in value after its initial public offering in August. Starbucks gained 88.1 percent, after a 62 percent jump in 2003. Exxon Mobil, up 25 percent, rallied with the price of oil.
 PMC-Sierra, down 44 percent, and LSI Logic, off 38.2 percent, led the decline in semiconductors. Intel, the giant of the industry, dropped 27 percent. Delta Air Lines, down 36.7 percent, illustrated the woes of the airline industry. The withdrawal of Vioxx by Merck pushed its stock down 30.4 percent. Pfizer, off 23.9 percent, was under pressure all year and then acknowledged problems with Celebrex near year-end.
 In trading yesterday, the Dow fell 17.29 points, or 0.2 percent, to 10,783.01 while the S.&P. 500 slipped 1.63 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,211.92. The Nasdaq dropped 2.90 points. or 0.1 percent, to 2,175.44.
 On top of the much stronger gains in 2003, when the S.&P. 500 surged 26.4 percent, the major market gauges have now notched their first back-to-back annual gains since 1998-99. But two of the three main market gauges are still well below the record highs reached in 2000. While the Dow is just 8 percent below its record, the S.&P. is 20.7 percent below and the Nasdaq is 56.9 percent below.
 There are many intangibles that could quickly change the outlook for 2005 for the worse. The war in Iraq and terrorism are the two most obvious unknowns. A weakening dollar, if it got out of hand, could be a threat to both the stock and bond markets. The dollar fell for its third consecutive year against major currencies in 2003, including a 7.6 percent drop to a record low against the euro on Dec. 30.
 The record federal budget deficit and the record current-account deficit -- the broad gap between exports and imports of goods and services -- are already worrying some investors. And interest rates are expected to rise further this year, as the Federal Reserve continues pushing its short-term interest rate higher.
 Then there is some negative market history: Since World War II, the Dow has fallen an average of 1.3 percent in the first year of Republican presidencies. 
 Mr. Froehlich said the American stock market might be up as much as 8 percent to 10 percent this year. But he said that the best opportunities for American investors were in markets outside the United States, where market valuations are lower and currencies that are rising against the dollar can add to total returns for American investors. 
 He also said that last year's good luck could lead to a market sell-off this month because many investors will take money out of stocks so they can lock in the gains that, before the postelection rally, they really did not expect to get.
 Some analysts said that the rally was so powerful because the election's outcome was the best possible one for the market: the re-election of President Bush, who had promised to make his tax cuts permanent, including those on capital gains.
 The fall in oil prices also helped. Crude oil peaked at $55.17 a barrel on Oct. 22 and has fallen 21.2 percent since then. Longer-term interest rates also helped by remaining low; the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note finished 2004 slightly lower than a year ago, at 4.22 percent.
 Inflation, despite the rise in oil prices and the fall in the dollar, remained under control. And corporate profit growth was strong all year. If profits in the fourth quarter are near forecasts for a 15 percent increase, the growth for the year would be 19 percent, the best year since 1993, according to Thomson Financial. While profits should slow early this year, forecasters still expect 10 percent growth for the year.
 ''You are looking at a good situation,'' said William E. Rhodes, chief investment strategist at Rhodes Analytics in Boston. ''How long it can last I do not know, but while it is there you can not ignore it because it is positive.''
 Another possible reason for the market's recovery is that while some big events, including the war in Iraq and surging oil prices, made the investing environment look risky, many investors were unwilling to leave the market for fear of missing gains if the market suddenly turned around, especially after the election.
 Since the election, there also has been an increase in the willingness to take risks and signs of growing complacency with the outlook. One measure of this is the Chicago Board Options Exchange volatility index, which has fallen sharply since the election is now around its lowest level since the mid-1990's.
 Another sign is the spread, or difference, between the yields on high-yield junk bonds and comparable Treasury securities. The spread has been at or near-record lows since the election, reflecting a sense that the economy faces few risks. 
 But for a contrarian investor, this low volatility and narrow interest rate spread might be a warning sign. 
 Mr. Rhodes is in the middle. ''Am I cautious? Yes,'' he said about the outlook. ''But am I concerned? No.''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 4, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Saturday showing the performance of the Dow Jones industrial average after presidential elections misstated the winners in 1900 and 1944. William McKinley was elected in 1900 (Theodore Roosevelt took office after Mc-Kinley was assassinated in September 1901). Franklin Delano Roosevelt was elected in 1944 (Harry S. Truman became president in April 1945 after Roosevelt's death).

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Postelection Bounce . . . or Blues''Tracking the performance of the Dow Jones industrial average after elections.Change in the Dow, day before the presidential election to end of the yearPresident elected: HERBERT C. HOOVER, 1928Percentage change: +16.5%President elected: THEODORE ROOSEVELT, 1900Percentage change: +16.2President elected: CALVIN COOLIDGE, 1924Percentage change: +16.0President elected: DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER, 1952Percentage change: +8.0President elected: GEORGE W. BUSH, 2004Percentage change: +7.7President elected: BILL CLINTON, 1996Percentage change: +6.0President elected: THEODORE ROOSEVELT, 1904Percentage change: +5.1President elected: JIMMY CARTER, 1976Percentage change: +4.0President elected: WILLIAM HOWARD TAFT, 1908Percentage change: +3.9President elected: RICHARD M. NIXON, 1972Percentage change: +3.6President elected: JOHN F. KENNEDY, 1960Percentage change: +3.1President elected: HARRY S. TRUMAN, 1944Percentage change: +3.0President elected: RONALD REAGAN, 1980Percentage change: +2.9President elected: GEORGE H.W. BUSH, 1988Percentage change: +2.1President elected: FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT, 1936Percentage change: +1.8President elected: BILL CLINTON, 1992Percentage change: +1.2President elected: DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER, 1956Percentage change: +0.8Incumbent party loss*-0.2%: 1964, LYNDON B. JOHNSON-0.3: 1968, RICHARD M. NIXON*-1.4: 1984, RONALD REAGAN-1.7: 2000, GEORGE W. BUSH*-2.7: 1912, WOODROW WILSON*-3.0: 1940, FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT-6.6: 1948, HARRY S. TRUMAN-7.2: 1932, FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT*-11.4: 1916, WOODROW WILSON-15.8: 1920, WARREN G. HARDING*(Source by Ned Davis Research)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Leading Underwriters''Managing underwriters of corporate securities, ranked by dollar amount raised through new issues in the United States for 2004. For this ranking, the lead manager is given credit for the entire issue.Manager: CitigroupDollar volume (billions): $376.93Number of issues: 1,254Share of market: 11.1%Rank in 2003: 1Manager: Lehman BrothersDollar volume (billions): 311.43Number of issues: 1,115Share of market: 9.2Rank in 2003: 2Manager: Morgan StanleyDollar volume (billions): 305.96Number of issues: 936Share of market: 9.0Rank in 2003: 5Manager: Merrill LynchDollar volume (billions): 286.66Number of issues: 1,293Share of market: 8.4Rank in 2003: 4Manager: J.P. Morgan ChaseDollar volume (billions): 267.54Number of issues: 1,067Share of market: 7.9Rank in 2003: 3Manager: Credit Suisse First BostonDollar volume (billions): 246.80Number of issues: 926Share of market: 7.3Rank in 2003: 6Manager: Goldman SachsDollar volume (billions): 202.95Number of issues: 632Share of market: 6.0Rank in 2003: 7Manager: UBSDollar volume (billions): 201.55Number of issues: 749Share of market: 5.9Rank in 2003: 8Manager: Banc of America SecuritiesDollar volume (billions): 191.49Number of issues: 719Share of market: 5.6Rank in 2003: 9Manager: Deutsche BankDollar volume (billions): 183.00Number of issues: 661Share of market: 5.4Rank in 2003: 11(Source by Thomson Financial)(pg. C4)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); INFLATION (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (50%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Presidential Election of 2004; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Stocks and Bonds

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); BILL CLINTON (92%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RICHARD NIXON (73%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%) Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2005



10 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: Texas Begins a Huge Highway Project; Not All Are Happy

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., Dec. 31 

 BODY:
Texas has embarked on a project to build superhighways so large and so complex that they will make ordinary Interstates look like cowpaths.
 As envisioned by Gov. Rick Perry, the project, the Trans-Texas Corridor, would be a 4,000-mile transportation network costing $175 billion over 50 years and financed mostly, if not entirely, with private money. The builders would then charge motorists tolls. 
 These would be megahighways: corridors up to a quarter-mile across, consisting of as many as six lanes for cars and four for trucks, plus railroad tracks, oil and gas pipelines, water and other utility lines, even broadband transmission cables.
 Supporters say the corridors are needed to handle the expected Nafta-driven boom in the flow of goods to and from Mexico and to enable freight haulers to bypass urban centers on straight highways that cut across the countryside.
 The number of corridors and exactly where they would run have yet to be worked out. But on Dec. 16 the Texas Transportation Commission opened negotiations with the Cintra consortium to start the first phase of the project, a $7.5 billion, 800-mile corridor from Oklahoma to Mexico that would parallel Interstate 35.
 ''Some thought the Trans-Texas Corridor was a pie-in-the-sky idea that would never see the light of day,'' said Governor Perry, a Republican who has compared his plan to the Interstate system. ''We have seen the future, and it's here today.''
 But some have called the project a Texas-size boondoggle. Environmentalists say they worry about its effect on the countryside, and ranchers and farmers who stand to lose their land through eminent domain are mobilizing against it. Small towns and big cities alike fear a loss of business when traffic is diverted around them.
 Even the governor's own party opposes the plan. The platform drafted at last summer's state Republican convention rejected it because of its effect on property rights.
 The tolls would represent a sharp departure for Texas, which has traditionally relied on federal highway money from gasoline taxes to build roads. But supporters of the Trans-Texas Corridor say its combination of tolls and private money would allow Texas to lay concrete at a rate that would be impossible through gasoline taxes alone.
 The corridors could generate about $135 billion for the state over the 50-year span and lure new industry by offering efficient shipping routes for goods and utilities, Ray Perryman, a Texas economist, said.
 In addition, Robert Black, a spokesman for Mr. Perry said, the new rail lines could lower the risk of chemical spills in urban areas.
 For the Oklahoma-Mexico corridor, Cintra plans to spend $6 billion for about 300 miles of four-lane highway from Dallas to San Antonio and give the state an additional $1.2 billion for improvements along the route. In return, Cintra, which is based in Spain, wants to maintain and operate the toll road for 50 years.
 The Texas Farm Bureau, generally regarded as an ally of Mr. Perry, opposes the project, with the organization's president, Kenneth Dierschke, saying: ''They're proposing going primarily through farm and ranch lands. If someone comes in and cuts your property in half, that's no good.''
 Officials promise that property owners will be fairly compensated for any land seized. And a special provision put in for the benefit of rural Texas would allow some property owners to negotiate for a share of the revenue generated by traffic on the corridor. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGHWAYS & STREETS (91%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CITY LIFE (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); GASOLINE (75%); FUEL TAX (75%); CITIES (73%); CHEMICAL ACCIDENTS (70%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (67%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (65%); EMINENT DOMAIN (63%); BROADBAND (55%) Roads and Traffic; Interstate Highway System; Finances

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (89%) Rick (Gov) Perry

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Texas

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2005



11 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; URBAN TACTICS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Fade to Black

BYLINE: By JIM RASENBERGER. 
Jim Rasenberger is the author of ''High Steel: The Daring Men Who Built the World's Greatest Skyline.''

 BODY:
UNDER the streets of New York, amid the maze of copper mains and transformers that compose the city's power grid, an ember of Manhattan's past will soon fade into darkness. Con Edison has announced that it aims to shut off direct current electricity, also known as DC, by the end of this year. If all goes according to plan, the only electricity provided by the utility after next December will be alternating current, known as AC.
 The significance of this may be lost on many New Yorkers. Just as long as the coffee maker switches on in the morning and the refrigerator keeps humming, who really cares whether the current behind it is direct or alternating? 
 But if the demise of direct current doesn't quite rise to the poignancy of, say, the Dodgers' farewell to Brooklyn, it's still a swan song worth playing. To the dwindling number of New Yorkers who continue to use the old current, it's a matter of serious practical and financial consequence. For everyone else, it's an opportunity to revisit a pivotal moment in the dimly lit past of the original electric city.
 The story of direct current begins in Lower Manhattan, at 255-57 Pearl Street. Today, the address lies under a parking lot, but 123 years ago it was the site of Thomas Edison's first electric power plant.
 In 1882, having perfected his incandescent bulbs, Edison turned his attention to building a DC electrical system that could illuminate them. To showcase the system, he selected a 50-block area in Lower Manhattan, then sent squads of laborers into the streets to lay 14 miles of underground copper wire.
 At 3 p.m. on Sept. 4, 1882, an employee of the Edison Electric Illuminating Company flipped the main circuit breaker on Pearl Street. Eight hundred bulbs began to glow downtown, shedding a light, according to The New York Times -- which happened to be among Edison's first customers -- that was ''soft, mellow, and grateful to the eye.'' The world's first true power grid was born.
 The future success of Edison's DC system must have seemed assured to the inventor and his investors as they celebrated its debut that evening. In fact, though, DC was under threat almost immediately.
 The site of the Pearl Street power plant suggested the Achilles' heel of direct current. Edison had located the plant near his first customers because DC can travel only short distances, as little as half a mile, before losing strength. To serve New York, and realize his plan, Edison would have needed to build a power plant in every square mile of the city.
 There was, unfortunately for Edison, a better, cheaper way to deliver electricity to New York. And some of Edison's competitors, notably George Westinghouse, were already grasping it. The alternative was alternating current.
 The difference between DC and AC lies mainly in how the voltage travels. DC is conducted in a constant one-way flow, like the current of a river. AC is more tidal in motion, oscillating -- flip-flopping, if you will -- between poles of attraction. The crucial distinction is that AC transmits far better than DC, over longer distance and at higher voltages. This means that power generated hundreds of miles away, by a waterfall, for instance, can be efficiently and economically distributed to customers in New York and elsewhere.
 It is perhaps not surprising that Edison, who had invested so much effort and money into his patented DC system, failed to appreciate the superior qualities of AC. This was war to Edison -- ''The War of the Electric Currents,'' it soon came to be known. As Jill Jonnes writes in ''Empires of Light,'' a history of early electricity, the AC/DC dispute soon degenerated into ''one of the most unusual and caustic battles in American corporate history.''
 Edison's main line of attack against AC was that it presented too many risks for general consumption. Compared with DC, he insisted, AC was extraordinarily lethal. Some of Edison's supporters sought to demonstrate the evils of the ''damnable current'' by publicly electrocuting cats and dogs and, most infamously, an irascible Coney Island elephant named Topsy, whose reign as Luna Park's star attraction ended abruptly when employees of Edison fed 6,600 volts of alternating current into her three-ton bulk. All these ploys raised nearly as many questions about the humanity of Edison and his supporters as it did about the lethality of alternating current.
 The battle reached its full pitch in 1890, with the execution by electric chair of a murderer named William Kemmler. Edison, previously an opponent of the death penalty, recommended AC as the ideal way to execute Kemmler. So deadly was the current, claimed Edison, the condemned prisoner would be dispatched in an instant. Edison suggested a verb to describe execution by electric chair: ''Westinghoused.''
 IN the end, Edison's attempts to tarnish AC proved fruitless. AC was simply too economical, too sensible, to be checked. Indeed, given all of AC's advantages, it is remarkable that DC continued to endure in New York's power grid all these years.
 Today, about 1,600 customers still receive DC power in New York. All are in Manhattan, scattered among Upper West Side apartment houses, Garment District loft buildings, hotels and brownstones. Typically, these users rely on DC for limited purposes, like feeding the motors of century-old elevators or fire pumps, relics from an earlier age of electricity. The holdouts have withstood a five-year campaign by Con Edison to wean them from DC, including cajoling letters and escalating surcharges. Con Ed's patience is wearing thin.
 ''I have a drop-dead date,'' said Stephen F. Wood, the utility's vice president of energy services and point man on DC elimination. ''The president of the company has basically said: 'You've committed to getting this out of the system by the end of 2005. Now make it happen.'''
 According to Mr. Wood, Con Edison's incentive to provide direct current ended when the utility shut its last DC power plant 20 years ago. Since then, Con Ed has been converting AC to DC by way of hundreds of underground rectifiers. Maintaining two separate power systems, one quite old, is cumbersome, and, Mr. Wood added, ''DC gives us a higher percentage of problems per section of cable than we get from the AC system.''
 Whatever the solution, it's unclear how many of the 1,600 will comply with Con Ed's deadline. ''We know we'll have some customers, a limited number, who are going to be very difficult,'' Mr. Wood allowed. ''Probably a couple hundred who are going to hold out to the bitter end.''
 DC is not altogether doomed for extinction in New York. The subway has run on DC since it first began operating a century ago and will continue to do so. But as a public utility, after almost 123 years of faithful service, give or take the occasional blackout, DC is quietly taking its last rounds before the lights go out.


GRAPHIC: Photo: BELLE OF LUNA PARK -- The reign of Topsy the elephant ended abruptly when 6,600 volts of alternating current were fed into her three-ton bulk. (Photos by detail, from Library of Congress Moving Image Section) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (65%) Electric Light and Power; History; Subways; Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%); DC SYSTEMS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%) Consolidated Edison Inc

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: Thomas A (1847-1931) Edison; George (1846-1914) Westinghouse; Jim Rasenberger

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



12 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 8099 words

HEADLINE: The War Inside the Arab Newsroom

BYLINE: By Samantha M. Shapiro. 
Samantha M. Shapiro is a contributing writer. She last wrote for the magazine about students at an evangelical Christian college.

 BODY:
Abdul Rahman Al-Rashed, the general manager of Al Arabiya, a 24-hour satellite-news channel broadcasting from Dubai, has six plasma-screen TV's in his office on the floor of the channel's glowing, ultramodern newsroom set. They are always on. One is tuned to Al Arabiya itself, and depending on where the cameras are placed, Al-Rashed sometimes catches a glimpse of himself, pacing around his desk on his cellphone. Another shows Al Jazeera, the channel's main competition. A third is tuned to a new Saudi government satellite channel, and a fourth displays CNN. Al-Rashed likes to flip around on the other two -- from Al Hurra, the widely ignored news channel that the United States government started last February, to the BBC and then to Al Manar, the Hezbollah-owned station that was banned by the French and American governments last month for broadcasting anti-Semitic slanders and what a State Department spokesman called ''incitement to violence.'' 
 Al-Rashed's job is to find a place for Al Arabiya within this array, preferably at the top of the ratings. For now, though, it is Al Jazeera, which was started in 1996 by the emir of the gulf state of Qatar, that sets the standard, and the tone, for Arab television news. According to a poll conducted last May by Zogby International and the University of Maryland, Al Jazeera is the first choice for 62 percent of satellite-news viewers in Jordan, 66 percent in Egypt and 44 percent in Saudi Arabia. In most countries in the poll, Al Arabiya came in a distant second, although the professor who designed the poll, Shibley Telhami, said it had captured a ''remarkable'' market share for a satellite channel that, at the time, had been on the air for only a year; 39 percent of satellite-news viewers said they watched Al Arabiya almost daily. And in Saudi Arabia, the biggest advertising market in the region, the ratings race is much closer.
 Sheik Walid al-Ibrahim, a Saudi, is the owner of both Al Arabiya and its parent network, the Middle East Broadcasting Center, or MBC, the flagship station of which, a ''family entertainment'' channel called MBC 1, has more viewers than any other channel in the Middle East. Sheik Walid started Al Arabiya in February 2003 to provide a more moderate alternative to Al Jazeera. His goal, as he told me last month, was to position Al Arabiya as the CNN to Al Jazeera's Fox News, as a calm, cool, professional media outlet that would be known for objective reporting rather than for shouted opinions. He said he thought the market was ready for an alternative. ''After the events of Sept. 11, Afghanistan and Iraq, people want the truth,'' he said. ''They don't want their news from the Pentagon or from Al Jazeera.''
 Sheik Walid's personal political interests may also be a motivating factor. He is the brother-in-law of King Fahd of Saudi Arabia; the Saudi royal family dislikes Al Jazeera because it gives air time to Al Qaeda, and one of Al Qaeda's most cherished goals is the overthrow of the Saudi government. And before Al Jazeera, Saudi businessmen owned almost all of the major pan-Arab media, including MBC, the only channel that broadcast news bulletins to the whole of the Middle East, so the country and its rulers were rarely scrutinized by Arab journalists. Qatar's emir allowed Al Jazeera's reporters to take on the Saudis, as well as other governments in the Middle East. 
 Al Arabiya's sophisticated production values set it apart from other Arab news channels. Its sets and graphics have a clean, high-tech look, and its news bulletins are fast-paced -- no item lasts longer than two and a half minutes -- and are introduced with a dramatic drumbeat. While Al Jazeera anchors sit at a desk in front of a drab two-dimensional backdrop that looks a little like a local American news set from the 1970's, Al Arabiya's news is broadcast from the floor of its futuristic in-the-round silver-and-glass newsroom. 
 From its inception, Al Arabiya had a different style than Al Jazeera. There was nothing on Al Arabiya quite like Al Jazeera's signature programs, ''Islamic Law and Life,'' which offers advice to viewers on how to apply Sharia to their lives, and ''The Opposite Direction,'' which features fierce head-to-head debates. But what was reported and broadcast on Al Arabiya in its first months was, at times, similar to what you could see and hear on Al Jazeera. The two stations competed to show the most provocative, gory footage of casualties from Iraq. And after American troops captured Baghdad, Al Arabiya reported, incorrectly, that American forces had carried off all the treasures in the national museum. 
 American military authorities in Iraq and the American-appointed Iraqi Governing Council certainly didn't seem to distinguish between the two satellite channels: they considered both to be allied with the enemy. In September 2003, the Governing Council suspended Al Arabiya from reporting on official government activities for two weeks because, the council maintained, the channel was supporting resistance attacks. And that November, the council ordered Al Arabiya to stop all of its Iraqi operations after the channel broadcast a taped message from Saddam Hussein in hiding. At a news conference that month, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld called Al Arabiya ''violently anticoalition'' and in a separate interview said, ''There are so many things that are untrue that are being reported by irresponsible journalists and irresponsible television stations, particularly like Al Jazeera and Al Arabiya, that are leaving the Iraqi people with a totally imbalanced picture of what is happening in their country.''
 When Sheik Walid heard in early 2004 that Al-Rashed had just stepped down as editor of Asharq Al Awsat, a prominent Arab-language daily published in London, he began trying to persuade him to come to Dubai. Al-Rashed, an American-educated Saudi, is well known for his often angry and outspoken columns criticizing Islamic fundamentalism, and especially for a particularly scathing column that he wrote after Chechen rebels seized a school in North Ossetia in September, a siege that ended in more than 300 deaths. ''It is a certain fact that not all Muslims are terrorists, but it is equally certain, and exceptionally painful, that almost all terrorists are Muslims,'' he wrote. ''What a pathetic record. . . . We cannot tolerate in our midst those who abduct journalists, murder civilians, explode buses; we cannot accept them as related to us, whatever the sufferings they claim to justify their criminal deeds. These are the people who have smeared Islam and stained its image.''
 Beyond Al-Rashed's criticism of Islamic fundamentalists, the main target of his wrath is the Arab media. He didn't want to speak on the record about Al Jazeera, but during the three weeks I recently spent with the station's management and staff, he made it clear that he thinks his competition is not just misguided but actively dangerous. ''The region is being filled with inaccuracies and partial truths,'' he told me. (Like everyone I met at the station, he spoke English with me and Arabic with his co-workers.) ''I think people will always make good judgments if they have the right information and the whole information. What we lack right now is the truth and information. After that, we'll have a sane society. Right now it is an insane society because of the way information is being delivered to individuals.''
 When Al-Rashed arrived at Al Arabiya, he replaced the news director and hired a new executive editor. The three men share a vision for the station that involves less gore and a wider definition of what is news and what should captivate the interest and emotions of their viewers. The new leadership triumvirate is interested in reporting stories about honor killings and violence against women in Arab countries, a widespread phenomenon rarely considered newsworthy by other Arab media outlets. Al-Rashed and his top editors also push for lighter stories about daily life -- the kind of apolitical features that fill much of the programming day on Western news channels.
 On directions from Al-Rashed, Al Arabiya anchors and correspondents now refer to American troops in Iraq as ''multinational forces,'' not ''occupying forces.'' He told the producer of ''The Fourth Estate,'' a program that serves as a roundup of Western media, to stop quoting from The Guardian and The Independent, two left-leaning British papers whose content used to provide much of the show's material. One Al Arabiya host told me that she had been instructed to cut off guests who digress into anti-American rants, and other hosts I spoke to said they were being encouraged to ask tougher questions in their interviews.
 To Al-Rashed, the challenge he faces is much bigger than simply revamping a television channel. His goal is to foster a new kind of dialogue among Arabs, to carve out space for moderate and liberal ideas to enter the conversation, and in the process to do nothing less than save the Arab world from itself. ''People become radicals because extremism is celebrated on TV,'' he told me. ''If you broadcast an extremist message at a mosque, it reaches 50 people. But do you know how many people can be sold by a message on TV?''
 Al-Rashed, 49, had never worked full time in television before coming to Dubai. But he knows that television is the medium that is remaking the Middle East, for bad or good. ''I am sitting on a nuclear reactor,'' he said, speaking of Al Arabiya. ''It could produce electricity and light up a city, or it could cause destruction. It's up to the person sitting in the chair where I am sitting to decide which way it will go.''
For most of the short history of the Arab media, television stations have been run by national governments, who used them as extensions of their information ministries. Satellite TV changed that dynamic by allowing Arab journalists to go offshore -- initially mostly to London -- and beam Arab news into the Arab world without fear of being arrested or shut down. MBC was the first network to do so, but after 11 years in London, it was lured in 2002 to Dubai, the glimmering hub of capitalism and tourism in the United Arab Emirates. Dubai is a city under construction, 24 hours a day, and what is being built often seems like a caricature of Western excess: an archipelago of man-made islands shaped like the continents; the tallest skyscraper in the world; and, still on the drawing board, the largest mall in the world, replete with an indoor ski slope, and an underwater hotel. As part of the development of Dubai, the emirate established ''free zones'' -- tax-free areas with financial incentives to lure businesses into clustered luxury office parks. The Al Arabiya offices are in the flagship building of Media City, facing a man-made lake with unnaturally even waves, not far from Internet City, Health Care City and Knowledge Village.
 The chance to be in the Arab world but still removed from the economic and political problems that plague many of its countries proved attractive to MBC and to a number of other media outlets. It also appealed to Al-Rashed. The second of 14 children born to two wives in a middle-class Saudi family, Al-Rashed hadn't lived in the region since he left Riyadh in his 20's to attend American University in Washington. The seven years that he spent in the United States were eye-opening: he watched the Iranian revolution through the prism of the American media and covered events in the early 1980's from Washington for Al Majalla, a Saudi-owned London-based magazine. Al-Rashed moved to London in 1985 and rose through the ranks of elite Saudi-owned magazines and newspapers. He never thought he would return to the Middle East. Dubai, he said, is the only place in the Arab world he can ''exist.'' He sees Dubai as an experiment that could spur reform in other Arab countries and show what can be accomplished with a little openness and less corruption. 
 The population of Dubai is only 18 percent native; the rest of the residents are Western and Arab expatriates and laborers, mainly from India, Pakistan and East Asia who live in camps of squat cinder-block housing and ride back and forth to their work sites in company buses. Young single journalists at Al Arabiya go out to places like the cafe at the Dubai marina, where they can smoke water pipes next to a fountain designed to mimic the sounds of the ocean. In self-consciously ''Arabian''-style restaurants and nightclubs, Al Arabiya employees find themselves in combinations that would be unlikely in their home countries: one night atop the Royal Mirage rooftop bar, I sat sipping cosmopolitans with a Sunni, a Shiite and a Maronite Christian, all from Lebanon. With its Disneyesque Arab souks in which you can purchase Arab handicrafts or a Cinnabon, Dubai seemed like an elaborate stage set for modernization in the Arab world, a shallow facade of empty skyscrapers with -- so far -- nothing but sand behind them.
 Al-Rashed has been in Dubai for nine months, and he misses his house in the Kensington neighborhood in London, where he lived alone and where most of his possessions remain. He occupies an apartment suite in a downtown hotel, but he has barely set foot in the kitchen, and the bedroom serves as little more than a warehouse for half-unpacked suitcases and dress shirts still in their boxes. I met him at his place one morning in December, and we rode the elevator down to a cafe in the lobby for breakfast. He beamed politely at our waitress, Almira, a petite Indonesian woman in a lavender fez-like hat and apron whose name tag read ''Amy.'' ''I missed you,'' he told her, his dimples flashing. ''You were gone so long over Ramadan.'' 
 Halfway through his croissant and latte, his cellphone beeped with a text message from the news director at Al Arabiya: ''Wael Essam is arrested by Americans.'' Wael Essam, or Wild Wael, as Al-Rashed likes to call him, is Al Arabiya's correspondent in Falluja. He is only 27, and he has something of a reputation as a renegade. He was the only reporter who was able to get into Falluja at the beginning of the American offensive in November without being embedded with the United States military. From inside Falluja, he delivered breathless reports on Al Arabiya, his brow furrowed with intensity, his camera spinning from plumes of smoke billowing over the city to black-hooded fighters gathered in a lantern-lighted room. In a report I saw, the insurgents spoke calmly, not in the formal, didactic style of the kidnappers on beheading tapes; they were obviously relaxed around Essam, even when they were telling him that they were registered to commit ''martyr operations.''
 Essam was born in Qatar, to Palestinian parents. He attended Baghdad University, where he was president first of the Palestinian student group and then of the Arab students' union. He started working for Al Arabiya in 2003 as a reporter. Partly because of his student-government position, Essam had connections to families in Falluja and to former members of Saddam Hussein's Baathist government, and last April he began pestering his editors to let him report from Falluja. Salah Negm, who was the news director before Al-Rashed arrived, refused to give Essam the assignment, saying it was too dangerous. So last April, Essam used his vacation time to travel to Iraq from Dubai and ''embed'' himself in a house of insurgents in Falluja.
 Essam spent the summer back in Dubai, working in the newsroom. In the fall, when the American military authorities in Iraq announced plans to retake Falluja, Essam knew he wanted to return there. He couldn't bear to be in the office any longer, he told me. ''I hate it too much,'' he said. ''You just stay in your chair just taking news from wires.'' Al-Rashed was hesitant about sending Essam to Falluja, because, he said, Essam is ''hot-blooded.'' When Essam threatened to use his vacation time to go back, Al-Rashed relented.
 Overall, Al-Rashed has been happy with Essam's reports from Iraq. The Al Arabiya Web site featured them prominently, detailing Essam's journey through Falluja, from his close calls with insurgents and American marines to the ''large predatory mosquitoes'' he encountered just outside the city. Al-Rashed knew it was a great coup to have a reporter behind the lines in Falluja -- American and British television journalists couldn't safely report from there, and in August Al Jazeera was banned from Iraq altogether by the government of Ayad Allawi.
 Al-Rashed, finishing his croissant, did not seem particularly fazed by the text message about Essam's capture. If Essam was in American custody, Al-Rashed reasoned, he was less likely to be shot or blown up. ''The chance that he was going to be killed was a lot higher than that he would be arrested,'' he said. ''If the Americans have him with two legs and two arms, that's good news.'' (He was right to be sanguine, as it turned out; Essam was released a few hours later.)
 American troops have killed three Al Arabiya employees in Iraq. Ali al-Khatib, a reporter for the channel, and Ali Abdul Aziz, a cameraman, were killed last March by American gunfire near the site of a rocket attack on a Baghdad hotel. Mazen Al-Tumeizi was killed by a missile fired from an American helicopter in September while he was reporting live on a crowd celebrating in the streets of Baghdad after an attack that destroyed a Bradley fighting vehicle. 
 Even more Al Arabiya employees in Iraq have been killed by insurgents. In late October, a suicide bomber detonated a car bomb outside the Al Arabiya compound in the Al Mansour neighborhood in Baghdad, killing five, wounding dozens and destroying the channel's Baghdad office. Al Arabiya, like many Arab news stations, received threats from Islamist groups, by e-mail and posted on Web sites, in the preceding months. A group called the Jihadist Martyrs Brigades took credit for the attack. In its dispatches, members had criticized Al Arabiya for giving the new Iraqi government overly favorable coverage. They called Al Arabiya a ''terrorist channel'' and suggested that its name, which means ''the Arab,'' should be changed to ''the Hebrew.''
 After the attack, Al-Rashed's first directive to his Baghdad staff was to get on the air. Within minutes, he was on the phone to his roving anchor in Baghdad, Najwa Kassem, a serious, high-cheekboned veteran of five wars. It was important to send the terrorists a message, Al-Rashed told her, that they had failed to drive the channel out of Iraq or off the air. Kassem was in the compound during the attack, and she had been thrown onto some broken glass by the explosion. She was still helping wounded co-workers when Al-Rashed got her on the phone. After she spoke to him, she began reporting live by telephone from the blast site, and as soon as the channel's video feed was fixed, she was on the air, saying in a shaky voice that the bodies of her colleagues were too torn apart to identify. The list of the dead, she said, was being determined by who was missing. 
 I watched the tape in the Al Arabiya office, and it is powerful footage. Kassem's face looked strangely naked -- it had seemed inappropriate to wear makeup for the broadcast, she told me last month -- and she spoke urgently, affecting none of the rhythmic speech and eyebrow-lifting of a typical rehearsed report.
 In the days following the report, Al-Rashed said, a group called the Baath Party Arab Congress began to post reports on its Web site threatening Kassem by name. One, issued on Nov. 13, charged Kassem with being the ''organizational point-person'' responsible for ''the dissemination and perpetuation of falsehoods against the resistance'' and labeled her ''the prime-mover of such a policy at the present time.'' After Al-Rashed read the statements and other warnings, he reversed his earlier instructions to Kassem. Without saying why, he told her she would be fired if she didn't go to Beirut immediately. It was only after she had arrived that he told her her life had been threatened.
Many employees in Al Arabiya's newsroom have intimate connections with the conflicts they cover, and not all of them agree with all of Al-Rashed's ideas. There are Sudanese Arabs, Palestinians who grew up in Syrian refugee camps and a reporter who had been a member of Saddam Hussein's Baath Party. There are also several former Al Jazeera employees. Some were poached for their expertise; others defected because, they said, Al Jazeera's management these days is too Islamist for them. Women were discouraged from wearing tight pants, they said, and some men refused to shake your hand if they knew you didn't follow Islamic law. 
 The job of overseeing a staff of reporters that comes from so many places, geographically and politically, falls to a man named Nabil Khatib. Al-Rashed didn't hire Khatib directly. He hired Khatib's boss, Nahkle El Hage, a former executive at MBC who is now the news director at Al Arabiya, and the first thing El Hage did in his new position was hire Khatib. El Hage knew Khatib from the 12 years Khatib spent as MBC's bureau chief for the Palestinian territories and Israel. El Hage was impressed by what he saw as Khatib's sense of fairness, even when it caused trouble for MBC. ''I took a lot of heat for his coverage,'' El Hage said. ''At seminars and parties, people would ask: 'How can you be neutral on Palestine? Why don't you say martyr?''' -- meaning that Khatib should have been using the word ''shahid,'' or martyr, to describe Palestinian suicide bombers. ''I was glad we didn't,'' El Hage went on. ''Nabil was the most evenhanded reporter in the region.''
 Khatib's desk is just outside Al-Rashed's office. There is a constant rhythm going on all around him -- urgent bleeps from the wire services, the ring of his office phone and the warble of his cellphone. He answers most calls with the same deep-voiced greeting, ''habibi,'' which means sweetheart, an endearment that he also finds the opportunity to murmur to a surprising number of co-workers. 
 Khatib has a 5 o'clock shadow, and dark bags draw his big, bloodshot eyes downward. His head and shoulders seem permanently rounded forward, even when he is not staring at his computer monitor. A pack of Dunhill Lights usually sits by his keyboard. Khatib is a big man, but he used to be even bigger, and these days his clothes bunch baggily at his waist. In the four months he has worked at Al Arabiya, Khatib has lost 36 pounds. One evening he complained to me that he had not seen his baby daughter in two weeks, because she is asleep when he arrives home at night, and she is still asleep when he leaves in the morning. Woefully, he described the time he made his wife meet him at a nearby mall for lunch so he could see her and his daughter. ''I had only time for coffee and to kiss her,'' he said. ''Calls came in the entire time.''
 Khatib was hunched at his desk one morning over the story lineup for the next bulletin, typing, when Wael Essam called. Essam was upset that his most recent report from Falluja had been broadcast only twice over the weekend. Khatib hadn't seen it. Essam later told me that he puts in these sorts of phone calls fairly regularly to both Khatib and Al-Rashed, complaining that his reports aren't getting enough air time. ''We are the only channel that has this kind of tape!'' he said he told them. ''Why didn't we show it every hour? We have to show it many times!''
 Khatib punched a few keys on his computer, and Essam's latest report popped open on his screen. At this point, the American operation in Falluja was winding down. But according to Essam's report, American harassment had not ended. ''More than 200 families in Falluja are under siege by troops,'' Essam's voice said on Khatib's screen. 
 Khatib leaned in and asked: ''What does he mean? Let us see.''
 An Iraqi man angrily told Essam's camera: ''They are not allowing us to go out of our homes. They are arguing when we say we need to go out. They say snipers will shoot if you go out.''
 ''Well, that doesn't sound like a siege,'' Khatib mused. ''Maybe a curfew. Let us see.'' Then his cellphone chirped. He took the call and muted the audio but kept watching the screen. While he talked, on the video Red Crescent workers searched for a missing man, and a woman sobbed in a rage inside her damaged house. Essam cut to a close-up of holes in her walls. 
 Khatib hung up, raised the volume and translated for me. ''The woman says she lost her son in this house and now it is damaged,'' he said. ''She is screaming, 'Where should I go now after I lost my house -- to sleep in the street?''' 
 The next scene showed families leaving their houses to go to a Red Crescent shelter. Khatib rewound the video and played it again. The families loaded into the car again. He rewound again to the beginning, where the man described not being able to leave his house because of snipers. Khatib played the video through to the end, where Essam signed off, sitting casually on a ledge at the Red Crescent shelter with a group of families, new refugees in their own city. 
 Khatib thought he saw a contradiction there. Essam was reporting that families couldn't go out because of snipers and curfews, but in the second part of the clip families were shown leaving their houses to go to shelters, walking in the street with American soldiers in the background, who did not appear to be shooting at them.
 Khatib said: ''I have the feeling that he didn't care that much about being accurate. He just wanted to explain that the people of Falluja are suffering in many ways.'' A little later, Khatib crossed the newsroom floor to head down to the cafeteria for the one meal he eats a day. When he sat down to his meal, his phone rang again. It was Essam. He still hadn't seen his report back on the air. Khatib asked if the curfew Essam described was in place throughout Falluja. Then he asked about the scenes of American soldiers standing around people on their way to shelters. Essam explained that the second scene was from another area in Falluja, which is not under curfew. 
 Khatib told him: ''If there's still a place where people can't go out, you have to say it is just that part where they can't go out. There is no reason to exaggerate tragedy. The pictures are strong, but it's a big problem for viewers to think everyone in Falluja cannot leave his place.''
 Essam's segment was not broadcast again. 
Khatib and Al-Rashed share many of the same views about journalism. They are both idealistic about the transformative social power of objective journalism, and both want to push Al Arabiya toward a less emotional, more measured view of the Middle East. But they came to these ideas from experiences that were almost completely opposite. 
 Al-Rashed's political perspective evolved at a distance from the Arab world, in the United States and England, where he seems to have found life more pleasant, rational and interesting than it is in Saudi Arabia. Khatib's life and career, by contrast, have been bound up in the claustrophobic conflict he was born into. Khatib is the youngest of seven children raised by a widowed mother in Nablus, in the West Bank. He said he first got the idea to be a journalist at age 15, in 1978, after he spent three months being interrogated in an Israeli jail before being released without charges. He was frequently beaten, he told me, and during one such beating, by an Israeli officer who called himself Captain Uzi, Khatib was told he had been arrested for incitement. Khatib didn't know what the word meant. After his release, he asked his oldest brother. ''Incitement,'' his brother told him, ''is journalism.''
 When Khatib graduated from high school, he was eager to do whatever he thought would make Captain Uzi most angry, so in 1981 he applied for a Palestine Liberation Organization scholarship to Belarus State University in Minsk to study journalism. His courses trained him in the Soviet art of creating propaganda on behalf of the proletariat. During his sophomore year, when the P.L.O. mobilized students on campus to go to Lebanon to fight the Israeli Army, Khatib was inspired to join, and he persuaded a friend, who was studying medicine, to come with him. When they arrived, Khatib said, he quickly realized how woefully unprepared they were for war. Neither had been given any military training. His friend was killed in front of him, and two weeks later Khatib had had enough. When he flew back to Minsk, his anger had a different focus. 
 ''I was ready to die for a cause, and we were excited to fight for justice,'' he said. ''But it gave me a difficult question about good and bad: Who are these politicians who decide I should go to war when I don't know how to fight -- really to send me to a war when I am not a fighter -- because they want to make a strong showing numbers-wise? Who decided it was the right thing for me to leave my studies?''
 After he completed his Ph.D., Khatib returned to the West Bank, where he started his own news agency and eventually became bureau chief for MBC. Reporting on the Palestinian-Israeli conflict brought him close to death again and again. He watched as his colleague Nahum Barnea, a journalist for the Israeli newspaper Yediot Aharonot, discovered that his own son had been killed in a suicide bombing that both men were covering. He reported in Hebron in 1994, after Baruch Goldstein killed 29 Muslims at prayer. He was looking over a list of the dead when an illiterate woman asked him if her son was included. His was the first name on the list, but Khatib couldn't bear to tell her. 
 Khatib does not discuss these experiences easily, but their imprint on him is apparent. He has a sense about him that there is weight to the task he has been charged with: there is something irrevocable about making a mistake, about getting information wrong. He is clearly sickened by the media landscape of the Arab world. ''Sensationalism incites people to hatred,'' he said. ''I have smelled the blood of hatred, and I cannot understand how someone in an air-conditioned newsroom feels that he has the right to manipulate people's emotions, to rile people up or to generalize about a group, when he sees the repercussions.''
 More than anyone else at the station, Khatib was deeply frustrated by the ground rules of Arab TV journalism. Aside from the obvious ethical concerns an editor has about sending a reporter to dangerous places like Iraq and the West Bank, he said, there are other dangers involved in dispatching reporters to Arab countries where there is little or no freedom of the press. ''If in Libya or Egypt I push someone to tell a story that will get him in conflict with the authorities,'' Khatib explained, ''I can't tell them, 'We need it.' Because it goes without saying that this subject is dangerous. This applies to most of the issues that matter -- all the things related to corruption and political conflicts.'' Al-Rashed told me that Al Arabiya can't report freely on the Saudi government because it is Saudi-owned, and the channel is unable to cover Algeria at all right now. Al Arabiya's correspondent has been prohibited from reporting for the last eight months by the government of Abdelaziz Bouteflika, the recently elected president: during the election, the reporter had predicted that Bouteflika's rival would win.
 The central problem, as Khatib sees it, is that although Arab journalists have access to state-of-the-art technology, the governmental and civic structures needed to support a free modern press don't exist in the Middle East. ''CNN works in an environment that supports CNN,'' Khatib explained. In the United States, ''there are groups that regulate the media and protect the public interest. There is rule of law and access to information.'' Not so, he said, in nearly every Arab country. Even basic information like demographic statistics is treated as if it were a state secret, and it is almost impossible for the channel to report on the inner workings of Arab governments -- how budgets are drawn up or how leaders are chosen.
 To Khatib, those stories are much more important than the daily dose of news from Israel that is a prerequisite for Arab stations, both the old government mouthpieces and the new satellite channels. ''People are lazy,'' Khatib said. ''And Israel is a safe target. The access is easier there than in many Arab countries. But this reporting doesn't help Palestinians know which mayoral candidate to vote for.''
Khatib is in the minority in the newsroom. Right next to his cubicle sat Abdelkader Kharoubi, then the assignment editor. Kharoubi told me that he thinks it makes sense that the Israel-Palestine bureau is Al Arabiya's largest and most sophisticated, because that conflict, he said, is a tragedy unsurpassed in human history: ''Nothing like this ever happened in the world. What happened in Palestine is the most horrible murder in the history of humanity.'' Kharoubi said he thinks that Al Arabiya's reporters should always refer to Jerusalem as '''occupied Jerusalem,' with the emphasis on 'occupied.''' 
 There is a general feeling around the Al Arabiya offices that since Al-Rashed was named news director, the channel has become pro-American. Kharoubi agrees. Recent injunctions from Al-Rashed and Khatib to balance coverage in Iraq have gone too far, he said. Al-Rashed told me he thinks Al Arabiya's coverage of the Iraq conflict overemphasized civilian deaths in Falluja and played down American military successes against terrorists. Kharoubi thinks the opposite. ''How can you 'balance' civilian deaths?'' he asked me. ''Maybe you could show dead soldiers, but the American government doesn't even want us to show them. When you talk about the agonies of civilians, there is no way to balance it -- they are a different category of people. The Iraqi government says, 'Please concentrate on positive aspects.' Why should we concentrate on good things?''
 Kharoubi recently went in to Al-Rashed's office to express his concern that the station's portrayals of the American military and the Iraqi interim government were too positive. He was worried, he said, that it put the channel's Baghdad staff at continued risk. ''One concern I mentioned was that we don't want them to be killed again,'' he said. ''Not by Americans or terrorists.'' He also said that the recent direction in Al Arabiya's coverage means a risk of losing viewers. ''If we keep talking to Arab viewers as if this government'' -- the Allawi government in Iraq -- ''is going to introduce democracy, as if the U.S. Army are very nice occupiers who kill only terrorists, then they won't switch us on,'' he said. 
 When Al Arabiya's reporters were killed by Americans, Al-Rashed said, the station received hundreds of condolence calls from journalists at other channels, and the reporters were mourned as martyrs. By contrast, after the Al Arabiya bureau in Baghdad was bombed by insurgents, Al-Rashed said, only a few of his colleagues offered a single word about the five employees who died.
 Diar al-Omari, an Iraqi-born reporter for Al Arabiya, worries that the channel is increasingly seen in the Arab world as being too partisan toward the Allawi government. ''In Iraq we are losing sympathy,'' he said. ''People are not looking to Arabiya as an independent channel.''
 Ehab Elalfy, 30, a burly, bearded Al Arabiya reporter from Egypt, was very happy working at the station until the last few months, he told me. On one afternoon when I visited with him, Elalfy returned from midday prayers to find that he had been assigned to write an item from a wire report on the aftermath of an insurgent attack on American-trained Iraqi soldiers in Mosul. He winced when he got to a line in which an American military spokesman said, ''Twelve more unidentified bodies were found by multinational forces.'' Elalfy said no one specifically told him to stop using the phrase ''occupying forces'' in bulletins, but whenever he does, it is edited out. This isn't the only change at his job that he is annoyed by. A few months ago, he would run searches on Google Arabic every hour or so looking up words like ''Zarqawi,'' the name of an insurgency leader. He would often find a page that was up for just a few hours with a videotaped threat or hostage tape and take it straight to his editor. He said he's proud that because of those efforts, the station was sometimes able to play such tapes before Al Jazeera. But lately his bosses don't seem as interested. As an observant Muslim, Elalfy didn't like these tapes -- he said he thinks they violate Muslim laws about how to treat prisoners of war, especially women and civilians. But still, he thought they belonged on TV. 
 As Elalfy typed up his report, Rana Abu Atta, a young Al Arabiya reporter from Saudi Arabia with short, curly black hair pulled back with a headband, swung by Elalfy's desk to see if he wanted to get in on her lunch order to Burger King. Elalfy scowled at her. 
 ''Oh, sorry, I forgot!'' she said, and laughed. 
 For the last eight years, Elalfy has boycotted American products, because, he told me, ''American products help the U.S. administration earn more profit, and they use that profit to provide Israel with weapons to kill Palestinian civilians.'' 
 Until recently, it was the Israeli-Palestinian conflict that dominated Elalfy's imagination and passions. He recently completed an unpublished novel titled ''Me and Best Wishes,'' about an Egyptian journalist who plans to visit the Al Aksa mosque in Jerusalem but doesn't want to recognize the legitimacy of Israel by crossing its border legally. So instead, he sneaks across the Lebanese border with suicide bombers. Elalfy's protagonist is sidetracked in Lebanon when he falls in love with a Palestinian girl, who is killed by an Israeli airstrike. Hopeless, the protagonist decides to ''avenge her death'' by taking part in an attack on Israeli soldiers. 
 In the smoke-filled stairwell of the MBC building -- where employees conduct business while chugging cigarettes and sipping foamy Nescafe dispensed by a machine -- Elalfy told me that part of the reason he wants to be a novelist is to inspire pan-Arab nationalism. Elalfy said that all Arab lands should be one country; it is ridiculous, he said, that he has to apply for a visa to enter Lebanon. Gamal Abdel Nasser, the former president of Egypt, is his hero, because ''when Egypt came to freedom, it helped all Arab countries become free.'' 
 Elalfy recently started work on a new novel. It is about Iraq, the issue that has joined the Palestinian situation for him as the most pressing and important in the Arab world. It is based in part on his experiences reporting for Al Arabiya from Iraq a few months ago. In Iraq, Elalfy reported stories that were close to his heart and also didn't hesitate to involve himself in what he was reporting. He told me about one incident in which he saw an American soldier manhandling an Iraqi and picked a fight with the soldier. Elalfy said that while reporting from Falluja, he helped pull civilians out of rubble. He kept a little girl's dust-covered green plaid dress and mounted it in a wood frame. ''It was a child named Hannin's,'' Elalfy said. ''She died holding it, and her brother said I could keep it.'' 
 I sat with Elalfy one day when he was asked to take two sound bites from a 45-minute speech by Allawi. He wanted to follow one of Allawi's statements -- that suicide operations in Iraq are not true jihad -- with a statement from an imam saying that in fact they are. But his editors wouldn't let him. 
 ''There's no balance between the points,'' he said, shrugging, seeming defeated. When he finished the report, he drove back to the Gardens, the beige-and-apricot complex where Media City workers live, rubbing a fragrant Egyptian oil on his hands to kill the cigarette smell, a Palestinian kaffiyeh wrapped around the headrest of his passenger seat. 
It is unclear if the Department of Defense has changed its view of Al Arabiya since Donald Rumsfeld called it ''violently anticoalition'' a year ago. ''At this point in time, we do not want to offer our evaluation of the editorial content or direction of a particular news outlet,'' a Department of Defense spokesman, Lt. Col. Barry Venable, told me late last month. George Bush did choose to give Al Arabiya an interview after the Abu Ghraib prison scandal, and Al Arabiya's business manager, Shafaat Khan, said he was visited by a few American generals in the summer who wanted to establish friendly relations. They summed up their view of the Arab media by saying that as they understood it, ''Al Jazeera is very, very bad, and Al Arabiya is bad.'' 
 But on the newsroom floor, producers and editors said they find it difficult to get the American perspective when they want to put it on the air. On Nov. 19, gunfire broke out at a mosque in northern Baghdad. Khatib said he immediately had a local sheik on the line offering his account of the attack: that the United States Army opened fire on civilians. But Khatib saw in the footage an exchange of fire and wondered if the mosque had been harboring fighters. He spent the 45 minutes until air time trying to get an American or Iraqi government account of the incident; three hours later, he still didn't have one. 
 ''To my surprise,'' he said, ''the opposition is doing better, P.R.-wise, than the official Americans and Iraqis, who are not as readily available for comment to give their side as the opposition. The militants are ready with a video of masked men and a person available for comment a half-hour after the story breaks.'' Khatib went ahead and broadcast the segment on the gun battle at the mosque without the Army's side of the story; he said that the segment looked unbalanced but that he had a choice between an incomplete segment or not covering the fight at all.
 The United States government's primary strategy with the Arab media has been to create its own outlets -- the satellite-news station Al Hurra and Radio Sawa -- at a cost of $100 million, rather than engage aggressively with existing Arab media stations. But as a result, there is no easy mechanism for journalists at these stations to find American voices, even ones that might be able to make a sympathetic case to Arab viewers. One night, Nael Najdawi, a middle-aged producer in suspenders, ran up to me in the newsroom, his glasses bouncing off the cord around his neck. He asked me if I knew anyone who was related to a victim of the Sept. 11 attacks. I said that a woman in my neighborhood whom I had met a few times lost her brother. ''Can we get her to go live for the 10 o'clock bulletin?'' he asked.
 Officials in the State Department's public diplomacy division have argued for more direct engagement with the Arab media. But Norman Pattiz, a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors, who masterminded Al Hurra and Radio Sawa, told me he thinks that view is mistaken, because it ''presupposes that the indigenous media is the solution, not the problem.'' Pattiz speaks about the Arab media as a monolith. In a recently published essay, he wrote: ''Al Jazeera and Al Arabiya transcend traditional media roles. They function, in effect, as quasi-political movements, reflecting two of the defining characteristics of the Middle East today. One is the lack of political and press freedom. The other is Arab nationalism. Arab networks manifest both.'' He said Al Jazeera and Al Arabiya do this by covering news that Arab regimes suppress and stories that ''intensely arouse Arab passions,'' namely the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the war in Iraq. 
 Among experts who track the Arab media, there is a debate over whether this kind of coverage is good or bad for the prospects of democracy in the Middle East. Marc Lynch, assistant professor of political science at Williams College, agrees with Norman Pattiz that the satellite networks focus on hot-button issues -- his recent research broke down coverage on Al Jazeera since 1999 and found that the top three topics shifted among Iraq, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and Arab political reform -- but to Lynch, this makes Al Jazeera the most pro-democracy of all the stations in the Arab world: it reflects public opinion and opens up space for political debate. 
 William Rugh, a former United States ambassador and now an adjunct scholar at the Middle East Institute, likewise thinks that the dialogue on Al Jazeera, heated though it may be, opens up discussions that force authorities to be more accountable. But he says that Al Jazeera's attention to controversial issues and different points of view has not translated into democratic politics. ''That next step has not been taken as you might expect in terms of bringing democracy to the Arab world,'' he says. ''People haven't formed political parties and interest groups. You can't assume that just because there is a lot of shouting going on that there is a lot of transparency and accountability going on.''
 S. Abdallah Schleifer, director of Adham Center for Television Journalism at the American University in Cairo, says that part of a healthy democracy is that there are certain ground rules for discussion. ''The danger of a press moving from an authoritarian mode is sensationalism, which is sometimes evident in Al Jazeera,'' he says. ''Things are said on that network that would never be said in England and America because they are moving into uncharted territory, and so there are no taboos, no libel and slander, no limits to what one says.''
 Schleifer went on to say that he hopes Al Arabiya's more cautious and more professional approach will provide a foil for Al Jazeera: ''It might show that you could have a free press operating but with manners, and democracy depends on good manners.'' 
Khatib said he plans to stay at Al Arabiya for only a year. Although Dubai is an easier place to live than Ramallah, he said he doesn't want to stay because he is troubled by the ''huge gap'' between Dubai and the world Al Arabiya broadcasts to. ''In New York, as an editor, you can go have coffee, and everything around you gives you the feeling of the place,'' he told me one day in the newsroom. ''Working in Cairo, just going to work in the morning as an editor, you might see 10 people asking for money and come up with 200 stories. In Dubai, the most you see on your way to work is traffic.''
 Khatib said that people in Dubai ''don't live in the real world, the Arab world, and this affects the depth and the richness of our reporting.'' Gesturing to the newsroom, he said: ''They convey reality through glass. It's fake. I don't want to be like those who are away from the public. I felt this the first day I was here. If the network succeeds and I stay, I will lose what made me a good journalist.''
 But when pressed, Khatib also admitted that he is not enthusiastic about returning to his bureau in the West Bank. He said he is always treated as a Palestinian first and a journalist second, being held at checkpoints for hours en route to appointments. And he said that at times, the struggle to offer calm reports about a painful situation was overwhelming. ''I am tired of the process,'' he said, ''and the constant tension to hold my emotions at bay, and I don't feel that in a year or two years it will end.''
 Khatib took the job at Al Arabiya, he said, because he thought ''the Arab world was not able to be as moderate and free as it could be, because they are not getting true information.'' He wanted to be a bridge between ideals he holds about journalism and the realities of Arab reporting, and he thought he could have real impact at Al Arabiya. 
 But now that he has been in Dubai for four months, he said late one night in the marble lobby of the MBC building, the distance between those points seems vast. ''I am not sure I can personally afford to pay the price for this success, even if it is possible,'' he said wearily.
 Al-Rashed is usually more optimistic about the prospects for Al Arabiya, and for creating a truly free press in a region that is not free. But when pressed, he admits that his undertaking is risky, and that the cost of failure would be great. ''In a real way, I have to win this,'' he said one evening as his driver took us to the station. ''I have been preaching for a long time these kinds of thoughts, and if it doesn't work, I have to walk out and say, 'It didn't work -- you're on your own.' I am dragging everyone with me on this. I have to succeed.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Abdul Rahman Al-Rashed left Saudi Arabia in his 20's to attend American University in Washington and then thrived in the Arab expatriate media world of London. He never thought he'd return to the Middle East.
Nabil Khatib is responsible for overseeing Al Arabiya's reporters. It's no small task, considering that many of them don't agree with all of Al-Rashed's ideas about the channel's mission -- he has lost 36 pounds in his four months on the job and reads through bloodshot eyes.
Al Arabiya's employees take cigarette breaks in the stairwell outside the newsroom, which overlooks the man-made lake in Media City. Media City was built as part of Dubai's effort to use tax incentives to lure businesses into clustered luxury office parks.
 Najwa Kassem, getting ready to anchor the news in Dubai. In October, after a suicide bombing outside Al Arabiya's Baghdad offices, Kassem, a veteran correspondent, reported live from the blast site, without makeup, which she deemed inappropriate to the circumstances. (Photographs by Lynsey Addario/Corbis, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (89%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); RELIGION (74%); LIBEL & SLANDER (73%); MARKET SHARE (71%); HEZBOLLAH (68%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); PARENTING (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) News and News Media; Ratings and Rating Systems; Islam; News and News Media

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); ZOGBY INTERNATIONAL INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (54%) Al Arabiya (TV Network); Middle East Broadcasting Centre; Al Jazeera

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: Samantha M Shapiro; Walid al-Ibrahim (Sheik); Abdul Rahman Al-Rashed

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); QATAR (79%); GULF STATES (79%); JORDAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



13 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1506 words

HEADLINE: Slamming the Trunk on the Year of the Car

BYLINE: By JAMES G. COBB

 BODY:
SO it's already 2005, which under the auto industry's peculiar calendar means the 2006 models will start rolling in any day now. Actually, in seven days: press previews at the Detroit auto show get under way next Sunday.
 But hold on: before automakers' hoopla machines start spewing dry-ice fog around the latest sheet metal, let's close the books on '04. As in years past, this page marks the arrival of January with a recap of notable vehicles from the preceding 12 months.
 The list that follows is not objective, nor is it drawn from an exhaustive universe of candidates; there is no practical way to take the wheel in all of the 270-odd automotive nameplates sold in the United States (a number that does not include variations in trim or body styles). Some worthy models were not available for testing, and I never managed to get seat time in some significant new cars, including the Audi A6, the Lotus Elise, the redesigned Porsche 911, the Buick LaCrosse and the Pontiac G6. 
 Likewise, while some notable new hybrid models arrived in 2004 -- the Toyota Prius made the list a year ago -- my assessments of the Ford Escape Hybrid and Honda Accord Hybrid will have to wait. Both look promising, though like all hybrids so far, they command a price premium that largely negates the savings on fuel.
 Aside from the rise of hybrids, the year was notable for a jump in gasoline prices (which put a damper on sales of large S.U.V.'s) and increases in incentives like rebates (many of them aimed at luring pump-shocked customers into those S.U.V.'s).
 Manufacturers kept adding sport utilities, of course, but the action last year was clearly in the long-neglected automobile; Ford even declared 2004 ''the year of the car.''
 I would not disagree. While the latest sport utilities are better than their predecessors, most do not move the bar very far. A notable exception is the Land Rover LR3, a big improvement over its tired, quality-challenged predecessor, the Discovery.
 Here, then, are a baker's dozen of the most memorable vehicles of last year:

CHRYSLER 300 (Base price $23,920; 300C as tested $34,575) -- I wouldn't presume to anoint a ''car of the year'' -- there are plenty of those already -- but I'll go out on a limb to say this: If ever a new automobile stood out above its peers, it is this new Chrysler. Nothing less than a reinvention of the American sedan -- once again with rear drive (and optional all-wheel drive for the Snow Belt) -- the 300 may be the most significant car from Detroit since the 1986 Ford Taurus.
 For starters, it has terrific road presence, and after nine months on the market it still turns heads on crowded streets. Ralph Gilles's design mixes classic proportions, modern aesthetics and American exuberance, mixing Snoop Dogg's bling-bling with the Sopranos' bada-bing. 
 It also melds Stuttgart engineering with Detroit style, providing a rebuttal to those who were skeptical -- we know who we are -- of Daimler's takeover of Chrysler. Beneath its audacious design, the 300 is packed with well-engineered parts shared with the pricier Mercedes E-Class. The old Chrysler Corporation could not have produced such a well-rounded, well-engineered, well-made car on its own. Nor could Mercedes have designed such an audaciously American car or sold it such an accessible price. 

FORD MUSTANG ($19,410; GT as tested $27,375) -- Ford could have taken the easy route, giving the Mustang a retro makeover while scrimping on the chassis and powertrain. Instead, it turned its engineers loose to work their magic, and the result is a surprisingly lively and engaging car. The new Mustang perfectly blends 60's style with 00's performance, avoiding the shortfalls in two recent General Motors efforts -- the triumph of style over substance in the Chevy SSR retro truck; the victory of substance over style in the great-driving but bland-looking Pontiac GTO. Further, the Mustang GT, with 300 horsepower for $26,000, is the performance deal of the year.

CADILLAC STS ($40,695; V-6 as tested $49,590; V-8 as tested $58,560) -- For four or five years, each new Cadillac has trumped the one before it, propelling G.M.'s prestige division further from the gold-chains wasteland to which it had sunk. The rear-drive (or all-wheel drive) STS, which replaced the Seville, is a no-excuses American alternative to German luxury sedans.

HONDA ODYSSEY ($25,510; Odyssey Touring as tested $38,810) -- Everybody talks about minivan stigma, but nobody does anything about it. Well, perhaps Honda has -- its '05 Odyssey has the space and conveniences of a class-leading van plus the comfort and road manners of a luxury car. Owners could find themselves subject to minivan envy.

LAND ROVER LR3 ($44,995; SE as tested $46,000) -- The LR3's predecessor, the Discovery II, may have delivered more aggravations per dollar than any vehicle on the market -- even cheap Korean cars danced past the Disco in quality surveys -- so any change was bound to be an improvement. But the LR3 turned out far better than even a die-hard Land Rover lover might have hoped. It feels like a baby Range Rover, with a smooth ride and driving dynamics that set standards for true off-road vehicles. Its exclusive Terrain Response control takes the mystery out of selecting the optimal settings for any driving condition (dry roads, sand, ice, hilly mountain trails). On a single miserable driving day -- constant snow, patches of ice, driving winds -- the LR3 never felt less than omnipotent.

CADILLAC CTS-V ($49,995; as tested $51,195) -- For three or more decades, as G.M. churned out cars that ran the gamut from mediocre to embarrassing, people who watched the company wondered what it might be capable of, if only its managers unleashed the vast resources and deep talent pool at their disposal. Well, this high-performance 400-horsepower version of the midsize Cadillac provides an answer -- a cool, clean-looking, much less expensive retort to German tuner cars like the BMW M5 and Mercedes E55.

ACURA TL ($33,470; as tested $34,650) -- Acura's formula is well established: well-made, well-equipped, well-priced, sort-of-sporty cars. But while Acuras often tend toward blandness, the TL is fresh and stylish. What it lacks is the long list of options that can add $15,000 to the prices of its competitors.

MAZDA 3 ($14,225; as tested $20,240) -- Ford's parenting skills are being tested by some of its adopted children -- Jaguar comes to mind -- but Mazda seems to be heading from impoverished delinquent to star pupil. Having decided to make itself a bargain-bin Japanese BMW, Mazda is carving out niches in affordable sports cars (the RX-8); a line of lively midsize cars (the Mazda 6) and now a classy, sporty, well-priced series of small sedans and hot hatchbacks. The Mazda 3 shares its solid platform with the also-impressive Volvo S40 and V50, but those cars cost thousands more.

MERCEDES-BENZ SLK350 (base $46,220) -- The old proto-pop SLK was the Britney Spears of sports cars -- a cute and perky roadster that few took seriously. It was the sort of car that a wealthy gentleman might give a younger wife or, ahem, ladyfriend. But Mercedes has rescued the SLK with a testosterone injection; it is now a solid, impressive sports car. Lest no one miss the gender-bending transformation, the designers even gave the car a suggestive bulge in the front.

BENTLEY CONTINENTAL GT ($156,285; as tested $161,848) -- The Volkswagen Phaeton luxury sedan is surely the best car that nobody gives a hoot about, and its poor sales indicate that VW's upscale ambitions were a mistake. Fortunately, the Phaeton's painstaking engineering can be found in a more impressive package with a more prestigious name. A voluptuous 12-cylinder coupe, the Continental GT is an engaging driver's car for the well-heeled.

CHEVROLET CORVETTE ($44,245; $52,840 as tested) -- Yes, 'Vette enthusiasts are sniping; some say the C6 (for sixth-generation Corvette) isn't new enough, that it ought to be called the C5 1/2. Some say that the car feels too civilized -- egad, it actually stays in lane on the Interstate! -- or that one's sports car dollars would be better spent on a used (already depreciated) C5. But such sniping ignores the equal-opportunity access of America's homegrown exotic car. For the price of a Lamborghini Murcielago, you could have a different 'Vette for each day of the week.

SCION tC ($16,465; as tested $18,671) -- This hatchback from Toyota's MTV division is no fast-and-furious driving machine or practical packing crate (like its boxy sibling, the odd but endearing xB). But look inside and you see why Toyota seems poised to take over the world. The tC is a jewel box that brings a touch of Lexus to the economy class; the materials and details seem to belong to a car costing twice as much.

FORD GT ($143,345) -- Ford hasn't had a lot of good news lately, so it's not surprising that it reached back to its 1960's domination of Le Mans to build a halo car. What is surprising is that the race-ready GT turned out to be so engaging and easy to drive.


GRAPHIC: Photos: FORD MUSTANG: Retro yet modern.
CADILLAC STS: American without excuses.
SCION tC: A jewel box.
CADILLAC CTS-V: G.M.'s supersedan.
BENTLEY CONTINENTAL GT: Voluptuous.
HONDA ODYSSEY: Performs like a car.
FORD GT: Supercar for the street.
CHEVROLET CORVETTE: Blue-collar exotic.
MERCEDES-BENZ SLK350: It's a guy thing.
ACURA TL: One price fits all.
MAZDA 3: Compact but classy.
LAND ROVER LR3: The death of Disco.
 CHRYSLER 300C: Bold, brash and confident, a reinvention of the big American sedan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); SALES REBATES (75%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (73%); SPORTS CARS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (64%) Automobiles; Two Thousand Four (Year)

PERSON: James G Cobb

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



14 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; COLLEGE FOOTBALL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: For College Coaches, the Cash Is Rolling In

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., Dec. 31 

 BODY:
In his 24-year odyssey through higher education as president at Brown, Ohio State, Colorado and West Virginia, Gordon Gee maintains he has had one aspiration. 
 ''My goal in life has always been to earn as much money as my football coach,'' Gee, now chancellor at Vanderbilt, said in a recent telephone interview. 
 Right now, Gee does make more money than his football coach, but that is not typical at universities with N.C.A.A. Division I-A football programs.
 When college presidents meet at the National Collegiate Athletic Association's annual convention, which begins Friday, the rising salaries of coaches will be an item on the agenda. 
 ''How are we going to handle this escalation of cost?'' Gee said. ''Can we afford to stay in this environment? What are we trying to accomplish?''
 The issue sets off drastically different emotions among the main players -- the coaches, the agents, the athletic directors and the college presidents.
 Gee called it a tragedy. The Oklahoma athletic director, Joe Castiglione, said it was merely reality. Oklahoma Coach Bob Stoops said he makes ''market value.'' The sports agent Neil Cornrich said the salaries were too low. 
 The N.C.A.A. president, Myles Brand, chalked up the recent increases to competition from the N.F.L. and predicted that faculty groups would soon start raising concerns. 
 Viewpoints may vary, but the dollars do not lie. At least eight Division I-A football coaches make more than $2 million a season, including recent additions to that club: Mack Brown of Texas, Urban Meyer of Florida and Tommy Tuberville of Auburn. 
 Castiglione predicted that by next spring, 12 to 15 coaches would make salaries of more than $2 million.
 ''I'm not all that comfortable saying it, but I believe we're much closer to breaking the $3 million barrier than people believe right now,'' he said. 
 Castiglione said he was uneasy with the salary escalation, but he was quick to add that it could be justified.
 Oklahoma's Stoops makes more than $2.5 million a year, the highest known salary of any college football coach.
 But he runs a football program that Castiglione said generates $41 million to $42 million in annual revenue. That finances 70 percent of Oklahoma's budget for its 20-team intercollegiate program. Football expenses account for 30 percent of the athletic budget.
 Football, Castiglione said, provides financing in a self-sufficient athletic department that receives no taxpayer or state money. 
 ''If it was a bad dynamic, more and more universities would drop football,'' Castiglione said. ''The value is obvious. So why not apply good business strategy? From a business standpoint, we can justify every penny that we pay Bob and his staff.''
 He said salaries were reported differently 10 years ago, with coaches' outside revenue -- from camps, television and radio shows, speeches and apparel -- not counted as part of the total package. 
 Today, most coaches have all of their ancillary income included in their contract with the universities, which control the outside revenue from endorsements and appearances. 
 That is one reason, Castiglione said, that the numbers appear larger. 
 ''We're all just trying to be smarter and more efficient in creating a better financial package,'' he said. ''And when a coach leaves, you don't lose outside contacts with them.'' 
 Cornrich, the agent for Stoops and many other high-profile college coaches, including Iowa's Kirk Ferentz and Wisconsin's Barry Alvarez, said he saw the salary inflation as indicative of the money football programs make. 
 Gee said rising salaries were especially a problem because only about a dozen athletic departments were profitable each year, but Cornrich pointed to the huge revenue produced by football. 
 Cornrich also said that the peripheral benefits of a successful program should not be underestimated -- the corollary spike in alumni donations, ticket prices, television rights fees, marketing and merchandising revenue, and student applications for admission. 
 ''If anything,'' Cornrich said, ''I'd argue that coaches' salaries are lagging.''
 Cornrich said it was simply supply and demand: a winning coach will cost a college more money, just as an apartment in Manhattan will cost more than one in Duluth, Minn. 
 ''It's whatever the market bears,'' Cornrich said. ''As the game gets bigger and revenue increases, there's no reason to draw a line in the sand. The real question should be: When will they start sharing revenue with the people who produce it, other than the coaches?''
 Brand, the N.C.A.A. president, said college coaches' salaries began to increase when the N.F.L. started recruiting them in the past few years.
 ''What's happened through the work of agents and others is that the market between the pro and college ranks has collapsed,'' Brand said. ''It's a single market now. As a result, the salaries and the conditions of employment for football coaches in college are coming to resemble those in the pro ranks.''
 There has always been a demand to win on campus, but the big money has pressured colleges to win now, and that impatience has contributed to a spate of college firings, including the dismissal of Tyrone Willingham by Notre Dame after the completion of only three years of a five-year contract.
 Brand said the consensus was that the trend of escalating coaches' salaries would continue. 
 Castiglione said: ''You can debate it, curse it or embrace it, but if you're going into a competitive market, there's a decision to be made. It's a choice that an institution has to make. If they don't want to do it, they can say no. I'm not complaining, I'm just being candid.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Oklahoma Coach Bob Stoops makes more than $2.5 million a season. At least eight Division I-A football coaches make more than $2 million. (Photo by Carlos Barria/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (93%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (77%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); COMPANY STRATEGY (66%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (56%) Football; Wages and Salaries; Coaches and Managers

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (58%); NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (57%)

PERSON: Pete Thamel

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (53%) OKLAHOMA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



15 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; COPING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: All News Is Local

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS. 
E-mail: amh@nytimes.com

 BODY:
FOR every disaster and killer wave in the world, there are ripples in New York. So while it may be too soon to measure the economic and social impact of the South Asian tsunami on the city, it is not too soon to predict that the city will feel repercussions.
 A century ago, New York neighborhoods were defined by the traditional ethnic cocktail of Irish, Italians and Jews, and to some degree, those groups still define the city. But their dominance is receding as fast as the floods on beaches half a world away. 
 As the world's borders become increasingly porous, the city has absorbed people from points on the map that many New Yorkers probably couldn't find on the first try. These days, it's hard to imagine a major event on the planet that wouldn't resonate with some hyphenated community in New York. It's been some time since the city was defined by just a few major ethnic groups. 
 ''Now it's a hundred,'' says Kenneth T. Jackson, editor of The Encyclopedia of New York City. ''Just look at Queens; it's probably the most diverse single place on earth. Every stop on the No. 7 train is a different country. 
 ''I suspect Queens itself would probably reverberate with anything that happens anywhere,'' he added. ''There is not, I think, an immigrant group anywhere on earth that's not represented in New York. This was not true half a century ago.''
 Or 20 years ago. The waves that pounded the shores of Sri Lanka were felt on Staten Island's north shore, home to much of the city's Sri Lankan population, which has grown from a mere 440 souls in 1980 to more than 2,900 in 2000. Small numbers, but still an increase of nearly 600 percent. 
 The waves were also felt among the 43,000 Bangladeshis concentrated in Astoria, Woodside and Elmhurst; the 68,300 Indians in places like Richmond Hill; the 4,000 Burmese in Elmhurst, Bensonhurst and Midwood; the 4,200 Thais in Astoria and Elmhurst; the 7,600 Malaysians centered in Flushing; and the 2,800 Indonesians found mainly across Queens. 
 Who even knew, until last week, that there was a Sri Lankan neighborhood in New York? As Mike Wallace, director of the Gotham Center for New York City History, jokes, the trick is to look for the restaurant. Sure enough, New Asha Sri Lanka restaurant is on Victory Boulevard.
 Another indicator of shifting ethnicities is the public school population. ''Sri Lankans?'' one Stuyvesant sophomore said without a moment's hesitation. ''I have two in my music class. They live on Staten Island.''
 Some people would not be surprised to see South Asian enrollment rise in the public schools after this disaster. ''When Hurricane Hugo struck in the Caribbean, we had thousands of schoolchildren arriving in the middle of October,'' said Mitchell Moss, professor of urban planning and policy at New York University. ''The fall of governments, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes all lead to new people coming into New York because this is where they have families, this is where they have communities, and because New York is a welcoming place.''
 Over the years, disasters have shaped and reshaped the city. One could start, Mr. Wallace says, with the 1790's and the Haitian revolution, then move on to the 1840's and the Irish potato famine. 
 The list is as long as history, he adds: ''There were German political and economic crises slow-rolling in the 1840's. The Russian Revolution sends White Russians here in droves in the 20's. We get Chinese restaurants after the Chinese revolution. We have German-Jewish refugees trying to pile in, in one of the greatest transfers of intellectual firepower since, people would argue, the fall of Constantinople. The U.S. invades the Dominican Republic in '65 and, boom, you have Washington Heights. The Vietnam War sets people in motion toward Chinatown.''
 And the trend is accelerating. More than 40 percent of the city's foreign-born population arrived after 1990, and diversification has been abetted by federal immigration policy, which has shifted from granting visas mainly for family unification to awarding them by lottery. 
 Joseph Salvo, population director for the City Planning Department, is willing to describe New York as the nation's most diverse city, though he's cautious about saying it's the world's most diverse. Toronto, Sao Paulo, Sydney, Rome, Tokyo are rivals.
 If the city doesn't see a surge of South Asians, historians say, it may be because manmade disasters tend to drive immigration more directly than natural disasters. War and genocide close off hope for the future. Tsunamis end as quickly as they begin, and people try to rebuild. But no one should be surprised if somewhere in Queens or Staten Island, a memorial to last week's disaster is erected, a reminder of one more connection to a distant corner of the world.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lisa Haney) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (90%); TSUNAMIS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); ETHNICITY (76%); BEACHES (75%); REFUGEES (75%); TRENDS (62%) Earthquakes; Tsunamis; Immigration and Refugees; Social Conditions and Trends

PERSON: Anemona Hartocollis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); EARTH (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (94%); MALAYSIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); INDONESIA (79%); MYANMAR (79%) New York City; Sri Lanka; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Indian Ocean

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



16 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY MONEY: SPENDING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: Remember When You Wanted Your Own Ms. Pac-Man?

BYLINE: By ROBERT JOHNSON

 BODY:
THE grandparents of Michael Gabriele's five children seem to visit more often lately at his house in Stormville, N.Y. ''They say hi to the kids,'' he said, ''and then head straight for our recreation room.''
 Everyone else follows, said Mr. Gabriele, 39, a mortgage banker, who has spent more than $30,000 over the last two years on seven arcade-style games, each in its own cabinet, to furnish his 650-square-foot game room. ''We burn so much juice in there I had to have an electrician rewire the whole room.''
 Mr. Gabriele says his game room is well worth the expense because it brings together different generations of his family. ''It's a dream come true,'' he said. ''I could live in there.'' 
 Well-equipped recreation rooms are becoming a more popular destination for both relatives and friends. Updating a recreation room can be a major project. Debbie Baxter, an interior designer in San Antonio, says she has noticed an increase in clients willing to pay her fees of up to $200 an hour for advice on selecting the best mix of games and fitting them into the available space. ''You've got to leave some elbow room, and there are other considerations,'' she said. ''You don't want the path to a pinball machine to take people right in front of the dart board.'' 
 But with enough space, that kind of danger disappears. Ms. Baxter said a medium-size recreation room would cover about 350 square feet. ''That gives you enough room for a pool table, a bank of three or four pinball machines or arcade video games and maybe foosball,'' she said.
 But not enough for Mr. Gabriele. His buying binge embodies a trend among grown-ups who fed coins into Pac-Man and Missile Command machines in mall arcades in the 1980's. For them, home video-game systems like Sony's PlayStation 2, which connect to a regular television and are played with hand-held controls, just don't provide the right feel or enough thrills.
 ''Playing an actual arcade game, where you stand there over a control panel that has a joystick and flashing lights, is the ultimate way to play,'' said Ryan Delaney, the principal of Taft Elementary School in Ashland, Ohio, who has two children. His home recreation room is filled with a half-dozen arcade games. His current favorite is the new Elvis pinball machine; it is priced at $4,275 from Stern Pinball Inc. ''It's packed with action like hidden bumpers and very fast -- plus it plays eight Presley songs from the King's comeback tour in 1968,'' Mr. Delaney said.
 Readily acknowledging that such machines aren't among life's essentials, Jack Guarnieri, president of Pinballsales.com in Lakewood, N.J., said, ''We sell everything that nobody needs.'' But he does so without apology. ''Look, when I was growing up my father worked hard but never had enough money to even think about buying a $4,000 arcade game,'' he said. ''Now, people are more willing to part with disposable income. When the economy's good, buying these games makes them feel good. And when the economy's bad, well, they help them feel better.''
 All of this reflects a new type of the ''cocooning'' tendencies that market researchers said they spotted after Sept. 11, 2001. In an earlier time, a stay-at-home consumer was often a couch potato watching TV, but the new version is more active, and enjoys playing games. Ms. Baxter points out that her clients shun easy chairs and sofas in their recreation rooms in favor of bar stools and benches -- if they want places to sit at all. And their plasma televisions are less the focus of the room than a form of prestige art to be watched between turns at a game.
 Arcade games bought for home use are a relatively small market compared with the $10 billion market for video games in the United States. After all, the price of the new Elvis arcade game is roughly equivalent to that of 85 copies of the popular video game ''Grand Theft Auto.'' Yet sales of arcade games are growing. David Young, president of BMI Gaming in Boca Raton, Fla., who sells new and refurbished arcade games generally priced from $1,000 to $10,000, said his 2004 sales would total $4 million, more than double the level of the previous year.
 One of his customers, Germaine Harmon of Wellington, Fla., has converted her three-car garage into a game room decorated like a 1950's diner, with a jukebox and game selection that includes a tabletop shuffleboard court. ''It's something my grandkids, kids and friends can enjoy,'' she said.
 A wide variety of arcade games are available at eBay and from local entrepreneurs who repair flea-market castoffs. For customers who want help with making game-room choices, Mr. Young's Web site offers packages: mixes of equipment at various prices. Mr. Young's basic combination, at $6,550, consists of two machines: any new Stern-made pinball machine and an upright Ms. Pac-Man/Galaga video game. (BMI's price for the two, if bought separately, is $6,750.) His most expensive package, at $43,275, includes eight arcade machines, a jukebox, foosball and an air hockey table. That is $2,000 less than BMI's price for all 11 items if sold individually.
 The discounts for video games that are played on televisions can be much greater, even within months of their debuts. Still, the TV-based games are typically no more than $50 apiece to begin with, and the game console that is hooked up to the television usually sells for less than $150. A busy resale market for the systems and games offers many bargains, but those products are generally aimed at young children, teenagers and young adults who are often on tight budgets, relative to those of arcade-game buyers.
 ''My typical customer is between the age of 35 and 65 and has income of at least $75,000 a year,'' Mr. Young said. 
 Bargains are scarce in the market for arcade-style games. 
 ''You certainly won't find us selling a pinball machine at a discount,'' Gary Stern, president of Stern Pinball, said. ''I'd rather take one apart and use it for scrap in other machines than sell it at a discount.'' His company, based in Melrose, Ill., outside Chicago, is the nation's only surviving manufacturer of pinball machines after the market contracted over the last three decades. ''The country used to crank out 100,000 pinball machines a year,'' he said. ''Now it's about 10,000, all from us.'' 
 His hottest product this year is the Elvis model. ''We're known for licensed designs with beautiful artwork, lighting and sound, like 'Terminator III,''' which features the voice of Arnold Schwarzenegger, he said.
 In the last five years, Mr. Stern's residential sales have doubled, to 20 percent of his market. ''Bars and bowling alleys are still big on pinball machines,'' he said, ''but more people want them at home.'' 
 Nostalgia runs so high, Mr. Stern said, that even though he normally adjusts machines destined for home use to play free, one customer insisted that they require coins. ''He just likes to put in money, I guess to exactly replicate the arcade experience of his youth,'' Mr. Stern said.
 As Mr. Gabriele, the mortgage broker in Stormville, N.Y., recaptures his past, he has the company of his parents, his wife and his children, who range in age from 1 to 16. ''We'll play for hours,'' he said. ''All my kids' friends come here, which is nice.'' 
 But even Mr. Gabriele acknowledges that he sometimes welcomes a change of scenery: ''I might feel like saying, 'Hey, let's go out somewhere.' Not that anyone would listen.''

QUICK READ
Here is what the up-to-date game room should offer, and what is passe, according to Debbie Baxter, a game-room designer in San Antonio:

IN: A prime space on the first floor, near the kitchen. That makes it convenient for snack runs.
OUT: Game rooms on screened porches. Those were fine for table tennis but won't do for today's electronic gadgetry.

IN: Retro-style pinball machines with Elvis and Harley-Davidson themes. Arcade-quality video games in their own cabinets.
OUT: A big-screen television with four hand-held controllers connected to it. That's for a child's room.

IN: A jukebox with selection buttons and a neon look.
OUT: Clocks. Everyone is too busy playing games to care what time a sitcom is on TV.

IN: Lighting that mimics the look of a rock concert, a cocktail lounge or a sports bar. Lava lamps.
OUT: All boring bulbs, lamp shades and natural light from windows.

IN: Commercial arcade games, typically priced at $4,000 and up, that have the feel of a restored 1957 Chevy.
OUT: Junky, pitted old machines bought at a bargain for $500 on eBay.

IN: Bar stools and narrow benches. Popular games will keep people standing and leave little room for other furniture.
OUT: Easy chairs, recliners and sofas. They're in the wrong room: the couch-potato area is down the hall.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Gabriele, his wife, Billie Joe, and three of their children in their recreation room in Stormville, N.Y. Mr. Gabriele has bought seven arcade-style games in two years. (Photo by Tara Engberg for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER GAMES (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); INTERIOR DECORATING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (71%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (69%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (67%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (61%) Games; Arcades; Computer and Video Games; Housing

PERSON: Robert Johnson; Michael Gabriele

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



17 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Stores Find Good Workers Among Devoted Customers

BYLINE: By EILENE ZIMMERMAN

 BODY:
LAST fall, the Container Store opened its first Manhattan outlet in Chelsea -- a few blocks from where Annie Figenshu, an actress, got off the PATH train each day. She already shopped at the company's online store but now became a frequent customer at the Chelsea location, and on one visit asked a checkout clerk what it was like to work there.
 ''She loved it and said the benefits were great,'' said Ms. Figenshu, who noticed signs in the store that encouraged customers to apply for jobs, citing the company's inclusion on Fortune magazine's annual list of best companies to work for. She asked for an application, was directed to the company's Web site and was hired within two weeks. 
 Almost immediately, Ms. Figenshu said, it was clear her choice was right. ''I knew I liked the products and the company,'' she said, ''but I was surprised at how much I like the culture.'' 
 With labor market experts warning of a coming work force shortage -- growth in the labor force is expected to stay largely flat over the next 20 years -- hiring managers are increasingly looking to recruit customers because they require less training and have a regard for a product or service that noncustomers do not.
 ''We actually use the term 'evangelist' to describe them,'' said John J. Sullivan, a human resources consultant and professor of management at San Francisco State University. ''Here is a group of people who know your products and are passionate about them. You would be crazy not to hire them.''
 Mr. Sullivan said studies showed that former customers sell an average of three times as much as other employees. A survey of national retail sales associates conducted this year by Unicru, a company in Portland, Ore., that automates hiring and employment processes, showed that the more an employee shopped at a store before being hired, the more products they sold. 
 Kenexa, a work force automation company in Wayne, Pa., says its assessment system gives higher scores to job applicants who are also customers and recommends them for hiring more often. Kenexa's software, like Unicru's, can track every aspect of the recruiting process and correlate it to performance. ''Our research shows customers that become employees stay longer, sell more, refer others and are less likely to steal,'' said Troy Kanter, Kenexa's president.
 About three years ago, Gracious Home, a high-end home store with locations on the Upper West and Upper East Sides of Manhattan, began using in-store signs to recruit customers. The owner, Natan Wekselbaum, found that former customers were more successful employees because they understood the store's culture, which emphasizes customer service.
 ''I used to hire everyone that walked in and wanted a job, but I made mistakes,'' he said. ''I find that when we hire customers, we don't have to start from scratch. They know the product line and how we operate. That's a huge asset.'' 
 Ken Mesnik had been a Gracious Home customer for 15 years before he was hired as vice president for sales, marketing and administration in September. He said he wanted to work at the company because of how he had been treated as a customer and because of the ''family'' environment at stores. When Mr. Mesnik decided to change jobs last summer, he contacted Mr. Wekselbaum and applied. ''I have never been so happy in my working life,'' he said. ''It's exceeded my expectations.''
 Human resources experts say those who work where they are also customers are usually happy and satisfied on the job. ''You don't feel positive about yourself when you are selling something because you have to,'' said Larina Kase, a business psychologist and executive coach. ''If you genuinely like the product and the environment where you work, it feels more consistent with who you are.''
 Thomas Morkys, a retired high school art teacher who was hired in August in Waterbury, Conn., at the Jo-Ann Store, a fabric and craft retail store where he had been a customer for 20 years, finds it ''very comfortable.''
 ''I enjoy talking with the customers, because they often share my interest in arts and crafts,'' he said. 
 Although the benefits of higher sales and happier employees are persuasive, another compelling reason for recruiting customers -- especially in retail and food service -- is changing demographics. Those industries in particular rely heavily on young people, who are working less than ever, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The employment rate for those aged 16 to 24 was about 40 percent throughout the 1990's but has drifted down recently; it was 31 percent in October 2003. Some 26 percent of high school graduates not enrolled in college were unemployed in fall 2003, up from 17 percent a year earlier.
 SnagAJob.com, which describes itself as the nation's largest site for part-time and hourly jobs, said job postings increased fourfold from 2003 to 2004. Much of that increase is a result of rising difficulty in finding good hourly employees, said Shawn Boyer, the chief executive. 
 Many companies have recently begun reaching out to prospective employees in a variety of ways -- direct-mail campaigns, fliers, in-store signs and Web-enabled kiosks. In October, the Container Store -- which tracks how frequently customers shop and what they buy -- sent out 100,000 invitations to those deemed enthusiastic about gift wrap to recruit them for its Gift Wrap Wonderland department. 
 REI, a nationwide retail cooperative that sells recreational equipment, sent e-mail postcards to its members in seven market areas this year, inviting them to apply for employment in recently opened stores. ''There is more competition than there used to be for hourly employees,'' said Anna McGough, the company's retail hiring manager. ''We've really accelerated our customer recruiting efforts in tougher markets like those on the East Coast, where we are less well known.''
 Several companies, like Kmart, Target, Circuit City and Albertsons, have begun using Web-enabled kiosks where customers can apply for a job on the spot. Target has kiosks in all 1,313 stores; six months ago Kmart installed them in 400 stores -- including both Manhattan locations -- and plans more in 2005.
 ''We have potential candidates coming in the stores every day, so it made sense to set up a system where it would be easy for customers to shop and then put in an application for employment,'' said David Whipple, senior vice president for associate relations for Kmart. 
 Mr. Sullivan, the consultant, advises job seekers interested in working at a favorite business to read what has been written about that company's management practices, observe how employees behave and ask them if they like their jobs. ''If a hotel worker tells you, 'This is a great place to work,' it's probably a great place to work,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Annie Figenshu shopped regularly at the Container Store before she decided to work there. Employment specialists say appreciative customers make good employees. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); RETAILERS (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (77%); SALES FORCE (77%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); HUMAN RESOURCES (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); RETAIL SALES (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (72%); LABOR SHORTAGES (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%) Retail Stores and Trade; Hiring and Promotion; Labor

ORGANIZATION: Container Store

PERSON: Eilene Zimmerman; Annie Figenshu

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



18 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1908 words

HEADLINE: Libya Is Enticing U.S. Executives With Its Abundant Oil Reserves

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

DATELINE: TRIPOLI, Libya 

 BODY:
For the first time in a decade, a new oil territory is opening up. Reopening, that is.
 American oil executives have recently been flocking to Libya, crowding the lobby of Tripoli's only luxury hotel and literally standing in line to meet local officials. The executives are bent on finding out whether this oil-rich North African country -- long walled off from foreign investment because of its anti-American regime and ties to terrorist organizations -- could become the next frontier for exploration. 
 What the petroleum crowd is after lies hundreds of miles south of this enclave founded by Phoenician traders in the seventh century B.C., beneath a desert the size of Alaska that holds oil reserves estimated at over 36 billion barrels. That is enough to meet the daily imports of the United States for eight years. 
 And that may be just a starting point. At a time when oil around the world is harder to come by, Libya is dangling the rights to explore and develop new sources of petroleum. The country holds the largest oil reserves in Africa, but as a producer it trails Nigeria and Angola. And, as every Libyan official inevitably points out, only a quarter of the country has properly been explored for oil. 
 But that is where the problems start. Libya is a highly authoritarian state, fraught with tangled bureaucracy, rampant corruption and arbitrary enforcement of laws. Its regime is based on an elaborate fusion of socialism and Islam -- dubbed the Third Universal Theory -- that was Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's answer to both capitalism and communism after he took control of the country in the late 1960's. 
 Such tribulations are nothing new for oil executives, many of whom have previously traveled to hostile and far-flung places around the globe in search of oil. They, along with other Americans, are certainly eager to do business here: the newly opened American liaison office said it receives more than 200 inquiries a week from interested companies.
 In the next few months, several dozen oil companies will be watching as the Libyan government unveils the winners of new licenses that have attracted intense interest from major and independent producers. 
 The surge in oil prices in 2004 turned the spotlight on the urgency to increase global oil supplies. The price shock underscored the lack of sufficient production capacity around the globe, stretching producers to pump at their maximum to meet runaway demand.
 But for oil companies that must continually replenish their production with new reserves, the exploration options are narrowing. 
 In the Middle East, home to the bulk of the world's known oil, most countries remain shut to foreign investors. In the United States and Europe's North Sea, production from mature fields is in decline. Even in Russia, considered by many to be the most promising energy supplier in the world, access is threatened as the government tightens its grip on the local industry.
 The last significant oil discoveries were made off the West African coast in the 1990's, and these are being produced. 
 So executives are now paying very close attention to a country that until recently was synonymous with international terrorism and whose leader was once infamously called a ''mad dog'' by President Ronald Reagan. 
 ''One of the most critical issues facing the oil industry today is access to new oil reserves, and Libya represents tremendous resources,'' said Clarence Cazalot, the chief executive of Marathon Oil in Houston. 
 ''There are many, many people who are descending into Tripoli to talk to the same people we're talking to,'' Mr. Cazalot said during a 24-hour visit here to attend a business conference and meet privately with Shukri Ghanem, the Libyan prime minister. 
 The spotlight swung to Libya in August of 2003 when Colonel Qaddafi took responsibility for a score of terror attacks, including the 1988 bombing of Pan Am flight 103, which killed 270 people over Lockerbie, Scotland; he agreed to a $2.7 billion settlement with the families of the victims. 
 That was followed by a deal in late 2003 with the United States and Britain in which Libya promised not to develop weapons of mass destruction. The announcements paved the way for the United Nations to lift sanctions against the country.
 But hurdles abound. The country remains on Washington's list of state sponsors of terrorism, which limits the exports of some technologies that American oil companies need for their work. 
 Corruption is another problem. In its latest survey, Transparency International, an independent organization in Berlin that monitors corruption, ranked Libya 108th out of 145 countries, tied with Albania, Argentina and the Palestinian Authority. The lower down a country ranks on the list, the worse the country's corruption, according to the survey.
 The country still seems ill-equipped to deal with the influx of foreigners. Recently, a high-level representative from the World Bank, Yukiko Omura, who was scheduled to deliver a speech here, was denied entry at the airport because of problems with her visa. 
 ''That's not such a good start,'' one European business executive said. ''They should be courting her, not deporting her.'' 
 Three decades of competing socialism, Islam and tribal rule have damaged Libyan society. More than half of the country's workers are employed by a sprawling state bureaucracy, joblessness runs about 30 percent, educational standards have sagged, and Libyans complain they have to travel to neighboring Tunisia to get proper medical treatment.
 As a result, foreign investors remain cautious, said Randel R. Young, a lawyer who advises oil companies about Libya for Fulbright & Jaworski, an international law firm. And questions remain about whether the regime has really abandoned its old ways. Libya is suspected of being involved in a recent plot to assassinate Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah because he traded insults with Colonel Qaddafi during an Arab League summit in 2003.
 ''People are treading their toes carefully,'' Mr. Young said. ''With such a country, it would be surprising if there were no uncertainties.''
 Most oil executives seem undaunted. ''We feel comfortable enough to put our money down,'' said James LeJeune, a vice president for business development at ChevronTexaco, who was visiting Libya to consider investments here. ''In any other country, that would fall under acceptable risk.''
 In small ways, Libya has changed. Visitors at Tripoli's airport are greeted by revolutionary slogans for a classless society, but they can now buy French perfumes or Italian sunglasses at the recently opened duty-free shops. The airport plans to offer Internet connections for travelers.
 Around Green Square, Tripoli's main public area, the oversized pictures of Colonel Qaddafi that once adorned the white facades of colonial buildings are slowly giving way to ads for Pepsi Cola or Korean-made consumer products. 
 And last year, the regime opted for a drastic change of course. Colonel Quaddafi appointed an American-educated economist as prime minister, tacitly encouraging him to loosen the state's grip, privatize government-run companies, and allow market forces to shape the economy. These policies amount to a complete reversal of its 1969 ideology.
 ''It was clear that the government's ways weren't successful anywhere,'' said Shukri Ghanem, the prime minister, who is considered a traitor by the regime's revolutionary die-hards. Despite having the backing of Colonel Qaddafi, Mr. Ghanem, who holds a Ph.D. from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University in Medford, Mass., acknowledged that his plans still face opposition from security services and revolutionary committees which he has little control over. 
 ''Some people have privileges which they hate to see changed,'' Mr. Ghanem said in an interview in his office in the center of Tripoli. ''Lots of people prefer the status quo to having a shot in the dark.'' 
 The item that tops his agenda now is the redevelopment of the country's oil industry, the cornerstone of his government's economic program. 
 Libya's oil sector has slumped since the early 1980's. It currently produces about 1.6 million barrels of crude a day, a level that has remained mostly unchanged during the last decade. That production is less than half the peak of 3.3 million barrels a day reached in 1970.
 Libya's National Oil Company wants to return production to that peak level by 2010, and has estimated that it needs $30 billion in investments to expand and modernize the nation's oil industry, drill new wells and build pipelines and refineries.
 The country has been getting some outside help since the 1990's from European oil companies like Italy's Eni, Spain's Repsol and France's Total. These account for about 20 percent of the country's oil production. 
 Libyan officials said that they should be able to attract big American oil companies and increase the share of foreign involvement to 50 percent of Libya's oil output.
 ''Libya has a big room for increased production,'' said Mr. Ghanem, whose face lit up as he listed his country's advantages as a producer. ''Libya is west of Suez, close to Europe and closer to the United States'' than Persian Gulf oil producers. ''It's unexplored and has good-quality oil.'' 
 Libya is a relative late-comer to the Middle East oil boom. Oil was only discovered here in 1959 by Standard Oil of New Jersey, as Exxon was known at the time. By 1961, Libya was exporting its first crude; 10 years later, it ranked among the world's top 10 oil producers. 
 But Colonel Qaddafi's regime, which toppled King Idris in 1969, put an end to the oil bonanza. Investments fell as the new government imposed tougher fiscal terms on foreign companies. While government revenue initially rose as oil prices soared, production soon slumped. 
 Exxon and Mobil, then separate companies, withdrew from the country in 1981 as tensions between Libya and the United States grew. In 1986, the remaining companies left when President Reagan ordered American oil interests out of Libya before bombing the country. 
 Now, these companies -- Occidental Petroleum and a group made up of Marathon, ConocoPhillips and Amerada Hess, known as the Oasis group -- are negotiating their return to their original oil concessions. 
 But some executives are cautioning that increasing production will take time. ''You can't simply flip a switch,'' said Casey Olson, a vice president at Occidental, the fourth-largest oil company in the United States. ''It's a step-by-step process.''
 Mr. Olson was one of a handful of American oil executives who traveled to Libya in recent years to inspect their original oil assets under a special waiver from the State Department. He said Libya has a lot of catching up to do after missing out on most of the industry's technological advances in the last two decades.
 Tony Mills, an analyst at Wood Mackenzie, an oil consulting firm in Edinburgh, Scotland, said that Libya seemed intent on regaining a front-row seat within the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries. In the 1970's, Libya was one of the group's biggest hawks, pushing for increases in oil prices and leading the charge for the oil embargo that followed the 1973 Arab-Israel war.
 The country's future intentions are unclear, but first it needs to become a major supplier again. ''Libya,'' Mr. Mills said, ''realizes it can matter again now that it has the world at its door.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A billboard of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi at a processing and compression station in Mellitah. Libya holds the largest oil reserves in Africa, and only a quarter of the country has been properly explored. (Photo by Jehad Nga for The New York Times)(pg. 4)
 A fuel facility in Mellitah, built by Libya and foreign companies. (Photo by Jehad Nga for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); LOBBYING (77%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); TRENDS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); ETHICS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CORRUPTION (65%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); RELIGION (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Privatization; Foreign Investments; Economic Conditions and Trends; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Ethics; Bureaucratic Red Tape; Law and Legislation; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: Jad Mouawad; Muammar El- (Col) Qaddafi; Shukri (Prime Min) Ghanem

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (88%) NORTH SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); AFRICA (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); NIGERIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ANGOLA (79%) Libya

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



19 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: Catherine Lynch, Manuel Pacheco

 BODY:
Catherine Minihan Lynch and Manuel Pacheco were married on New Year's Eve at the Old Grangonian Club in Santiago, Chile. The Rev. 
Luis Roblero Arriagada, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony.
 The couple met at Harvard, where the bride received a master's degree in urban planning and the bridegroom received a master's in international development.
 The bride, 27, is keeping her name. She is a development associate at the Telesis Corporation in Washington, which develops housing in distressed urban neighborhoods; she oversees the construction of new and refurbished housing. She received two degrees from the University of Pennsylvania, one in international studies and the other in business. 
 The bride is the daughter of Warren Lynch of Tucson and the late Anne Timlin Lynch of New York. Her father retired as a city bus driver for Sun Tran in Tucson.
 The bridegroom, 33, is an economist who evaluates potential investments in Latin American and Caribbean countries at the Inter-American Development Bank in Washington. He graduated from Pontificia Catholic University in Chile and received a master's degree in economics there. He is a founding member of CreArte, a nonprofit organization that runs art workshops for low-income children in Santiago.
 The bridegroom's mother, Carmen Vasquez, is a chef at Donde Augusto, a seafood restaurant in Santiago.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Gregory Garecki) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); RELIGION (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); RESTAURANTS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (69%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (90%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (90%) ARIZONA, USA (90%) CHILE (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (52%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



20 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The World: In Disaster's Wake; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: How Nature Changes History

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
WHAT follows in the wake of a tsunami? The death of a nation? Secessionist warfare or, conversely, the unexpected drift of warring parties toward a peace table? A surge in Islamic fundamentalism? 
 If the past is any guide, the response to the shock of Dec. 26 will loom larger in history than the wave itself. Disasters rip away social moorings as harshly as they tear children from their mothers' hands, and while faceless nature may be to blame for the first blow, governments may reap the political whirlwind that follows it. 
 In this case, the wave that rose out of the Andaman Sea broke over some remarkably fragile societies: 
 Indonesia's Aceh province had been under virtual martial law, largely closed to the outside world as 40,000 troops hunted separatists. 
 Sri Lanka was cut in two by civil war, and new killings had raised fears that a two-year cease-fire was collapsing.
 In Thailand, fighting between the government and Muslim rebels not far from its beach resorts claimed at least 500 lives last year. 
 And the Maldives, a nation of 1,190 coral islands averaging three feet above sea level, already feared the slow rise in the surrounding waters caused by global warming.
 Disasters have often deflected the course of history. Three whole civilizations that met watery dooms occurred to Dr. Brian M. Fagan, an archaeologist at the University of California at Santa Barbara.
 The least-studied of these cataclysms took place in 5500 B.C., when the Mediterranean, rising as the last Ice Age melted, burst through the hills surrounding a brackish lake to the northeast, and created the Black Sea. Seawater probably poured for weeks through what is now the Bosporus, covering human settlements ringing the lake.
 In about 1600 B.C., roughly three centuries before the Trojan War, the Santorini volcano, 200 times as powerful as the Mount St. Helens explosion, sent waves hundreds of feet high across the Mediterranean, devastating Crete, capital of the Minoan empire, its fleet and its coastal cities. Fatally weakened, the empire was later conquered by the Mycenaeans of the Greek mainland, who established the model for Western culture. (For example, Minoan doors had no locks, while Mycenaeans built citadels.)
 And in the sixth century A.D., the Moche civilization, based in desert valleys in coastal Peru, may have been fatally weakened by a combination of earthquakes and El Nino storms that washed away hundreds of miles of irrigation canals from the Andes. A tsunami may also have flung their washed-away hillsides back ashore, forming dunes that blew over the valley farmland.
 Sudden and shocking as they are, earthquakes, volcanoes and tidal waves are not the biggest forces in human history. Tiny microbes are more powerful. Plague undermined the medieval social order by killing a third of Europe in the 14th century, and the New World fell to the poxes and sniffles of conquistadors and Puritans, not to their muskets. Then there are political assassinations: a Serbian bullet precipitated World War I.
 But winds and waves, even from average storms, can topple empires if timed perfectly -- usually catching a navy at sea or an army on the march. As Bryn Barnard, the author of ''Dangerous Planet: Natural Disasters That Changed History'' (Random House), noted, typhoons in 1274 and 1281 (later dubbed the ''kamikaze'' or divine wind) saved Japan by sinking Mongol amphibious assault fleets. In 1360, an English army was marching on Reims to crown Edward III the king of France when hail the size of pigeons' eggs stormed down, killing men and horses and taking the fight out of the superstitious Edward. Invasions of Russia by Napoleon and Hitler bogged down in harsh winters.
 The Dec. 26 tsunami will probably not end a civilization. But it did worsen the prospects for a nation's existence. The Maldives, dependent on tourism, lost habitable islands and a quarter of its 95 resorts, and suffered damage equal to double its gross domestic product. The government's spokesman admitted that its future was in peril. (In 2001, Tuvalu, a nation of nine coral atolls, agreed with New Zealand that all 11,000 Tuvalans would resettle there.) 
 Several areas hit by the tsunami, particularly Aceh, contain some ''very dangerous and unpredictable social cocktails,'' said Paul Saffo, director of the Institute for the Future, a San Francisco-area research group. 
 The 1883 eruption of Krakatoa, he said, helped the cause of Muslim fundamentalists among the Indonesian nationalists already assassinating Dutch colonial planters and fighting their marines. That war was fought hardest in Aceh, on the north end of Sumatra, which practices a militant Islam linked to the Arabian peninsula, rather than the gentler mix of animism, Hinduism and Islam of Java, the island where Indonesia's capital, Jakarta, is situated.
 ''There was a sense that the old gods had failed them,'' said Mr. Saffo, who said he expected the new devastation to become ''a wacko magnet of enormous proportions with new cults founded'' in what is already an isolated rural area.
 The Indonesian government's response ''has to be swift, effective and free of corruption or it will be a gift to the fundamentalists,'' he said. The American war on terror, Mr. Saffo argued, might fare better by outspending Islamic charities in Indonesia than by ''pouring money into the sand'' in Iraq.
 Dr. Diane E. Davis, a professor of political sociology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, also foresaw change in Aceh, though she spoke in terms more political than religious. The 1985 Mexico City earthquake, which she studied, hastened the end of 71 years of autocratic rule by the Institutional Revolutionary Party. 
 In relief efforts run by the Mexican military and police, aid packages were brazenly stolen, and police officers were assigned to rescue sewing machines from a collapsed garment factory while bodies lay in its rubble. Instead of rebuilding merchant blocks in downtown Mexico City, the government tried to clear them for modern buildings. 
 The Indonesian soldiers now running relief in Aceh ''could be the same ones that had just been murdering people,'' she said. ''Imagine what that means on a face-to-face level.''
 By contrast, in war-exhausted Sri Lanka, citizens may see a contest. The government and the Tamil Tigers each control a stretch of devastated coast: which will do a better job? 
 With the right amount of goodwill, though, disasters can be a unifying force, said Dr. Michael H. Glantz, an expert on early warning systems at the National Center for Atmospheric Research.
 Perhaps the greatest success for a disaster, he pointed out, was spawned by two earthquakes that took place just three weeks apart in 1999. When one near Izmit, Turkey, killed 17,000 people, the first country to send aid teams was Turkey's ancient enemy, Greece. When Greece in turn had a quake, Turkey reciprocated. 
 Admittedly, some diplomatic groundwork had already been laid, but Greece's foreign minister said later that the tragedies sent both nations a simple message: ''We are all human.'' The warmer relations eventually led to talks over Cyprus and an end to Greek opposition to Turkey joining the European Union. 
 ''Maybe there's a way to get the rebels and government in Sri Lanka to say 'We're in this together,''' said Dr. Glantz. Then he hesitated. ''But it doesn't really work like that.''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 9, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about natural disasters that have changed history misstated an agreement between New Zealand and the island nation of Tuvalu, which is threatened by rising sea levels. Although New Zealand admits some Tuvalan settlers each year, it has not agreed to accept the entire population.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Photos of victims of last weekend's tsunami were posted at a church near Nagapattinam, an eastern port in India that suffered widespread devastation. The bodies, which had not been identified, were to be cremated. (Photo by Harish Tyagi/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. 1)
 A lithograph of the 1883 eruption of Krakatoa, an island volcano between Java and Sumatra. (Photo by Parker & Coward/Hulton Archive -- Getty Images)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (92%); RELIGION (91%); TSUNAMIS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); WEATHER (78%); HISTORY (77%); FUNDAMENTALISM (77%); BEACHES (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RESORTS (72%); ARCHAEOLOGY (72%); LAKES (72%); MOUNTAINS (71%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (67%); EL NINO & LA NINA (66%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (66%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (65%); IRRIGATION (50%); DESERTS (50%) Earthquakes; Tsunamis; Disasters; Earthquakes; Volcanoes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%)

PERSON: Donald G Jr Mcneil

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (79%) SUMATRA, INDONESIA (93%); INDIAN OCEAN (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); ANDAMAN & NICOBAR ISLANDS, INDIA (72%) INDONESIA (95%); THAILAND (92%); MALDIVES (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); INDIA (79%); PERU (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Indian Ocean; Aceh Province (Indonesia); Indonesia; Sri Lanka; Thailand; Maldives; Andaman Sea 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



21 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; ASIA'S DEADLY WAVES: RELIEF; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: With $2 Billion Donated, U.N. Now Needs Help to Deliver Aid

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Jan. 1 

 BODY:
Jan Egeland, the United Nations' emergency relief coordinator, said Saturday that the commitment of relief money from more than 40 nations had reached $2 billion, but he said that the scale of the response was overwhelming the capacity to deliver aid.
 ''The compassion has never ever been like this,'' he said, but then added, ''The military and civil defense assets that many countries are providing us are as valuable as cash or gold would be today because it makes us move with the assistance and it makes us get there in the race against the clock.'' 
 Mr. Egeland said the food and medical relief that was arriving in thousands of shipments was running into ''logistical constraints'' caused by overloaded airports and other bottlenecks. He gave a list of equipment needs drawn up in a telephone conference meeting on Friday with representatives of the United States-led core group of nations that also includes Australia, India and Japan. 
 Those needs included helicopters and ships able to carry them, air-traffic-control units, landing craft, trucks, cargo planes, base camps for the aid workers, fuel storage and water treatment units, generators and medical kits. 
 He said that some of that equipment was already coming in and that in addition to the core-group nations, he had spoken with officials in Canada, Britain, the Netherlands and other European countries.
 He said aid workers were feeding one million people in Indonesia and needed to feed 700,000 in Sri Lanka, a goal the World Food Program expected to reach by Thursday.
 Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's pledge of $500 million, Mr. Egeland said, made Japan the largest single donor, but he said he had ''huge pledges'' from the United States, the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, Britain, Sweden, China, the European Union ''and so many other partners.''
 Mr. Egeland, who stirred anger in the Bush administration this week when he said that despite growing prosperity, rich nations were becoming stingy in providing development aid to poor countries, went out of his way on Saturday to praise the American effort in the current campaign. Since his earlier comments, the United States has raised its commitment from an initial figure of $15 million to $350 million, and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said Friday that it was likely to go higher still.
 ''The United States, the wealthiest nation in the world, is doing a phenomenal job in this unprecedented challenge, not only with a very large cash donation but also bringing in military and civil defense assets that is precisely what we need,'' he said.
 But he coupled the praise with a New Year's wish that the kind of response seen this week become the new norm. 
 ''What we got in six days in this natural disaster was as much as we got for the more than 20 countries with phenomenal emergencies with hundreds if not millions of lives at stake all combined in 2004,'' he said. ''What I hope in 2005 is that this is the level of international generosity when people are dying from natural disasters or conflict, because it hasn't been that in 2003 and 2004.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); TSUNAMIS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); AIR FREIGHT (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); HELICOPTERS (69%); CIVIL AVIATION (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (68%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (56%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%) Earthquakes; Foreign Aid; Tidal Waves; Food; Medicine and Health; Earthquakes

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) United Nations

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (65%)

PERSON: Warren Hoge; Jan Egeland

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); INDONESIA (92%); ASIA (92%); INDIA (79%); CANADA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SRI LANKA (79%); NETHERLANDS (69%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%) Indonesia; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



22 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2228 words

HEADLINE: Is the Party Over?

BYLINE: By JOSH BENSON

DATELINE: East Rutherford 

 BODY:
DESPITE the dusting of icy snow, the wind busting across acres of swamp and temperatures well below freezing, the usual army of green-swathed Jets fans dutifully took up their posts in the Giants Stadium parking lot before the big game against the New England Patriots on Dec. 26. Their attendance, like the bellowing legions of fans for so many other football, basketball and hockey games in the Meadowlands over the years, represented the fulfillment of a vision more than three decades ago, when the state's leaders had the improbable idea that they could boost local pride -- and tourism -- by luring sports fans to a paved-over marsh in North Jersey. 
 And it has worked, mostly. But with the creeping indifference of fans, the Nets and Jets poised to flee the state, the Devils looking toward Newark and the Giants agitating for a new stadium, the question now is whether this era of good feeling for New Jersey sports is about to come to an end. What the state faces is an odd three-way tug of war among the sports teams, those who want to develop the Meadowlands commercially and Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey, who is adamant that professional sports will stay in New Jersey and in the Meadowlands. 
 But for many of those weekend pilgrims huddled around their barbecues and Budweisers at the Jets-Patriots game, with the Manhattan skyline a distant backdrop, the symbolic aspect of their location was clearly beside the point. ''If you're a fan, I don't think you care about any of that,'' said Joe Negari, a native of Rutherford who now lives in Manhattan. ''Where they play doesn't make a difference at all.''
 In a way, that sort of indifference is a tribute to the way that New Jersey has established itself as a home for professional sports, playing host at the Meadowlands sports complex to two New York football teams, the Jets and the Giants, as well as to the Devils N.H.L. franchise and Nets N.B.A. team. 
 The presence of the teams, say some of New Jersey's most prominent boosters, has become so normal as to be taken for granted by state residents. And more important, they say, the teams have helped the state shed its image as one vast bedroom community for New York City and Philadelphia. 
 ''There are two things that have changed the image of New Jersey, from the external standpoint,'' said Brendan T. Byrne, the former governor who helped engineer the transformation of the Meadowlands in the early 1970's. ''One is the sports teams and the other is Atlantic City. Together, they have sort of changed the image of New Jersey from a passive state to an active state. And having the teams playing here has made us feel better about ourselves.'' 
 Mr. Codey, who got his start in state politics around the time the Meadowlands began operations -- and who has made it an early priority of his administration to preserve professional sports in New Jersey -- said that the teams' arrival in New Jersey had a big effect on the state's self-image. ''It's meant a lot for the pride of the state, without question,'' he said. ''For the first time, we weren't second fiddle to New York City. We were more desirable.'' 
 Now circumstances are beginning to suggest that the grand experiment of New Jersey as a suburban mecca for professional sports is on the wane. For one thing, the patch of asphalt that has been home to all four teams, as well as a track for horse racing (and don't forget Major League Soccer's MetroStars), is teetering on the brink of obsolescence. In particular, the teams have been concerned that Xanadu, a mall and entertainment center planned to be nearly 5 million square feet, would threaten the site's viability as a place for sports. The project was a priority of the McGreevey administration, which essentially took the position that the state's resources could be better invested in commercial development than in professional sports franchises, with the notion of hometown pride secondary to the need to maximize actual revenue. Polls at the time consistently showed that New Jersey taxpayers opposed state subsidies for the sports teams.
 But even before the disputed development plans, the decades-old marriage between the teams and New Jersey had seemed to be an increasingly loveless affair. 
 The Nets, the original New Jersey team -- they began life in 1967 as the New Jersey Americans, playing at the Teaneck Armory -- never attracted the support they had hoped for. Even in recent years, when the team had an unprecedented run of success on the court, nearly half the 20,000 seats in Continental Arena were empty for many of the games; attendance has been declining since the 1997-98 season.

Restless Teams
 Now, the Nets want out. The team's new owner, Bruce Ratner, a New York developer, plans simply to build a fan base elsewhere by moving the team to Brooklyn when its lease is up in 2006.
 The Devils, arguably the most accomplished of the franchises, with three Stanley Cup championships over the past decade, have a dedicated following, but still never managed to generate the attention -- or revenue -- that the New York Rangers or the Philadelphia Flyers do. (A Quinnipiac University poll taken in 2003 put support for the Devils among hockey fans statewide at 43 percent.) While the team's prospects for another title this year have been dashed by a season-ending N.H.L. lockout, the team is looking to improve its fortunes -- and its chances of remaining in New Jersey -- with a possible move to a new arena in downtown Newark. 
 The Jets, whose lack of success since moving to the Meadowlands was compounded by the indignity of playing in a place called Giants Stadium, are hoping to improve their status by moving to a planned billion-dollar stadium on the West Side of Manhattan. And even the Giants, the quintessential establishment team of old New York -- and the organization that anchored New Jersey's sports boom by committing to move to the Meadowlands in the early 1970's -- have been publicly expressing dissatisfaction with the prospect of sharing parking facilities and roads on game days with a mammoth shopping facility.
 The parking and traffic around the Meadowlands on game days is already grim: seen from the upper tier of Giants Stadium, the surrounding area often looks like an unending sea of brakelights for more than an hour after the final whistle. In an interview last month, John Mara, the Giants' executive vice president and chief operating officer, called potential congestion the team's ''primary concern.''
 In recent weeks, the Giants have been negotiating for a new or much-improved facility with Mr. Codey, who has made it an early priority of his administration to maintain the sports function of the Meadowlands and to keep as many teams playing in New Jersey as possible.

Codey and the Meadowlands
 Mr. Codey isn't quite ready to declare the Meadowlands sports complex a lost cause. ''When I took over, it looked like the Meadowlands had clearly lost most, but not all, of its luster,'' he said. ''I wanted to revive it, and get it done.''
 Since coming to office in November, besides advocating a sparkling new stadium for the Giants, Mr. Codey has issued a flurry of public declarations about revitalizing the state's stable of professional sports teams. He has vowed to continue efforts to persuade the Jets and Nets to abandon their plans to move to New York City. He has pushed for legislation to bring casino-style gambling terminals to the Meadowlands Racetrack, a measure that he hopes would increase attendance and profits. And he even publicly invited the Mets to relocate from Shea Stadium in Queens to a facility next to Giants Stadium. (The Mets quickly declined.)
 ''It's very clear that in terms of having professional sports teams, it looked like our time had come and passed,'' Mr. Codey said. ''I thought that was a mistake. But I'm building a brand-new football stadium that will be state of the art, and still think we've got a great shot at keeping the Jets.''
 Mr. Codey said he also hopes to find a way to keep the Nets, but wouldn't mind if the Devils left as long as they moved somewhere else in New Jersey. He also wants to keep the MetroStars, who have talked about moving to Harrison as part of a redevelopment project there, in the Meadowlands. 
 Among other things, Mr. Codey cited economic factors as justification for making professional sports teams a priority. The Meadowlands generates tens of millions of dollars in tax revenue each year and supports more than 7,500 full-time jobs. 
 It is not clear what the impact on local business would be if the sports teams left, especially if they were replaced by another venture like Xanadu that would presumably increase consumer traffic in and around the Meadowlands. 
 But as Mr. Codey freely admits, much of his motivation stems from the fact that he is a fan and, as such, puts a high value on the commodity of civic pride that comes from having a home team to root for. ''It's about having a sense of identity,'' he said. ''We don't want to go back to being second fiddle.''
 Mr. Byrne, who is advising the Codey administration on the Meadowlands -- and whose name until 1996 graced the building where the Nets and Devils play -- said he sees both successes and failures in the state's attempt to make a home for sports teams.
 ''New Jersey people regard the Giants as their own now,'' Mr. Byrne said, although, he added, ''it sort of sticks in the craw'' that they are still called the New York Giants.
 ''You find a New Jersey crowd at Giants games now,'' he said.
 The Jets, he said, were a slightly different story. ''If the Jets move, it's understood that they came here as tenants of the Giants,'' he said. ''Although we'd love to keep them, I think there would be a greater sense of loss if the Giants moved.''
 Mr. Byrne sees the Devils, with their enthusiastic fan base, as a New Jersey success story.
 But, he said, somewhat regretfully: ''For some reason the Nets haven't caught on to the extent that we expected them to catch on in New Jersey. And the arena for the Nets and the Devils has not lived quite up to expectations.''

Profits and Loss
 Asked if the future of New Jersey sports could continue to live up to the promise it held in the 1970's and early 1980's when he was governor, Mr. Byrne said he remained optimistic. ''Of course I believe that my eight years was the golden age, and every other governor thinks that about his term,'' he said. ''I think now it's a matter of hard, objective judgments about who stays where. But I don't have any doubt that we have a good market, and if we lose one team there's always a chance of getting another.''
 In the meantime, some New Jersey elected officials have begun talking about ways to make sure that the state continue to profit from professional sports -- whether or not the teams actually play here. Assemblyman Louis D. Greenwald of Camden County recently sponsored a proposal to legalize gambling on professional sports in Atlantic City's 12 casinos, to compete with other states considering the same things and to reap some profit from the millions of dollars in illegal bets that are placed in and around New Jersey every week.
 Backers of the proposed legislation say that gambling on professional sports could give a huge boost to the state's casino industry, which faces impending competition from new casinos in Pennsylvania and upstate New York, and they estimate that it would produce $90 million in state revenue. But the whole idea remains theoretical for now, since federal law still forbids wagering on sports.
 As for the more immediate economic benefits of actually having sports teams playing in New Jersey, Mr. Greenwald said he favored the state offering the clubs' incentives -- to a point. ''It is important to have them here,'' he said. ''But what we should be doing is figuring out a way that it is the economic generator we have seen in other states. There's talk about building new stadiums, but it has to be done in a way to attract businesses, restaurants, hotels and other ratables connected to sports.''
 (Mr. Greenwald, it should be pointed out, does not root for the Giants, Jets, Devils or Nets. Like most sports fans in South Jersey, his allegiances are to the Philadelphia Eagles, Flyers and 76ers.)
 For the most dedicated New Jersey-based fans -- the ones who spend large chunks of time and money to follow a team -- their support clearly has little to do with considerations of commercial spaces, traffic or economic engines. The more relevant question is whether it matters to them that they can watch their teams play in New Jersey.
 James Flanagan III, a former federal prosecutor who now works in the criminal division of the attorney general's office, has impeccable New Jersey fan credentials. He has had Devils season tickets since the club moved to New Jersey in 1982, and has been going to see the Jets play ever since they landed in the Meadowlands two years after that.
 Asked about the significance to New Jersey of its sports teams, Mr. Flanagan said: ''I can't say how important it is to the state. But I can tell you it doesn't matter to me where they play. I started going to the Jets games when they were in New York in Shea Stadium. I've lived in New Jersey all my life, but I'm not wedded to New Jersey in the sense of sports. If they move, I'll follow my season tickets and stay with it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jets fans before the team's home game against the Patriots on Dec. 26. Usually in the Giants' shadow, the Jets want to leave the Meadowlands for Manhattan. (Photo by Barton Silverman/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
In 1971, Gov. William Cahill, left
Wellington Mara, the Giants' owner, center
and Sonny Werblin, chairman of the N.J. Sports Authority, unveiled the proposed Giants Stadium. (Photo by Neal Boenzi/The New York Times)
The Devils, winners of three Stanley Cup titles, are looking at Newark. (Photo by Ezra Shaw/Getty Images)
The Giants have their quarterback of the future in Eli Manning, above. Now they want a new or vastly renovated stadium. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)
 The Nets' new ownership wants to pack up the team and take it to Brooklyn. (Photo by Barton Silverman/The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS FANS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); ICE HOCKEY (77%); BASKETBALL (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); GOVERNORS (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (57%) Athletics and Sports

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (84%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (83%); NEW JERSEY NETS (83%)

PERSON: Josh Benson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



23 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 4533 words

HEADLINE: Heavy Questions

BYLINE: By Elizabeth Weil. 
Elizabeth Weil is an author of ''Crib Notes: A Random Reference for the Modern Parent,'' published by Chronicle Books.

 BODY:
The road changes just past the Starr County sign. The shoulder disappears, the grass is left uncut and the black-eyed Susans and big pink Texas sage have to compete with the orange traffic cones set out by the border patrol. Just two counties up from the Texas tip, where the flood plains along the Rio Grande change to rolling hills and eroding cliffs, Starr County, largely Mexican-American, is one of the poorest counties in the nation. Fifty-nine percent of its children live below the poverty level, and in the strange new arithmetic of want, in which poverty means not starvation but its opposite, it is also one of the fattest. 
 In the colonias on the edge of Rio Grande City -- jerry-rigged neighborhoods that are home to many illegal immigrants and lack adequate municipal services -- houses that look as if they might fall down neighbor houses that look like fortresses, a result of the boom-and-bust drug economy. Little gorditos run around in juice-stained diapers, and as the kids get older, they only get fatter. By the time they are 4 years old, 24 percent of the children are overweight or obese; by kindergarten, 28 percent; and by elementary school, 50 percent of the boys are overweight or obese, along with 35 percent of the girls. The concern is not just cosmetic. Overweight children are at significantly greater risk for developing Type 2 diabetes, and by early adulthood, hypertension, heart disease, stroke, colon cancer, breast cancer, gallbladder disease, arthritis and sleep apnea. ''Stop by any time,'' said the local school district superintendent, Roel Gonzalez, inviting me to visit. The child of migrant farm workers, Gonzalez is perhaps the children's greatest advocate and the community's greatest critic. ''I will take you down the hall in any one of my schools, and you will see most of the children aren't slim anymore; they're all beefy. Kids are 30, 40 pounds overweight already, and they're only in high school. We're basically walking time bombs.''
 The burden of childhood obesity is one created by adults and borne by children, and while the problem is widespread in America, there are few places where the children are lumbering under the load the way they are in Starr County, the point on the U.S. map where all the vectors that lead to obesity form a tidy asterisk. Some reasons are clear and well documented, but others are less transparent. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, rates of childhood obesity are among the worst in the Mexican-American population, and Starr County is 98 percent Mexican-American. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, among other sources, also shows that as socioeconomic status falls, rates of childhood obesity rise, and Starr County is desperately poor. Not only is Starr County in Texas -- one of the fattest states in the Union -- but it is also on the U.S.-Mexico border, the fattest part of Texas. The overall effect is devastating: almost half the adults in Starr County have Type 2 diabetes. A child is considered at risk if a close family member -- mother, father, sibling, aunt, uncle -- has diabetes, meaning virtually every child in Starr County is at risk of contracting the disease. 
 Complicating matters, self-discipline is typically not a hallmark of the school-age years. When you talk to children about losing weight, ''you see a blank stare,'' Gonzalez said. ''They hear you, but there's really not anything they can do.'' Vans of well-meaning doctors regularly barrel down from San Antonio and Houston, feeling the smooth blacktop change to bumpy gravel as they near their destination and knowing that if nothing changes soon, if the children continue to put on ever more pounds, they will be responsible for having watched over the first generation of American children to have shorter expected life spans than their parents.
 During the 2003-2004 school year, Peggy Visio, special projects coordinator for the University of Texas Health Science Center in San Antonio, made 13 trips to Rio Grande City, the largest town in Starr County. Visio, who specializes in diabetes prevention, worked previously with Sioux Indians in South Dakota, and her university recently received a grant from a private donor enabling her to start a program in the Rio Grande Valley. Beginning last January, Visio screened 2,931 elementary-school children, assuming she'd find about 600 at high risk for diabetes. Instead she found 1,172. Forty-five families volunteered to enroll a child in her program, a combination of weekly nutrition and exercise classes, plus two sessions of lab work to measure each child's height, weight, blood pressure and blood sugar and to examine each child for signs of diabetes. As part of the project's design, half of the families met with Visio and her staff in person, and half met via video link in order to test the efficiency of telemedicine -- that is, seeing a doctor, nurse or nutritionist remotely. (All participants came to the lab in person.) Starr County has 15 physicians; the ratio of residents to doctors is 3,412 to 1. (The statewide ratio is 661 to 1.) There are no behavioral therapists or pediatric dietitians in Starr County. The nearest pediatric endocrinologist lives about 70 miles from Rio Grande City. 
 One of the first things Visio did when she started the Diabetes Risk Reduction via Community-Based Telemedicine program, or Dirrect, in Starr County was to analyze the food served in the Rio Grande City Consolidated Independent School District, where all children receive both free breakfast and free lunch; so many qualified that it was easier just to serve everybody. The food service is run by Edna Ramon, who is 80 years old and began her job nearly two generations ago when malnutrition, not obesity, was the district's main problem. Ramon still talks about her memories of the dry hair and bony hands she saw on the children in the district in those early days. Visio analyzed Ramon's menus and quickly established that with breakfasts containing as many as 600 calories and lunches with 800, every child was on track to gain at least nine pounds during the school year. In addition, children were drinking huge quantities of sugary drinks -- sodas, fruit drinks and sports drinks -- which they bought from vending machines and at convenience stores and also drank at home. In the two months between her first two visits -- between initially screening the children and starting the program itself -- the children gained an average of two pounds.
 Visio also found at the outset that 13 percent of the prekindergarten and 18 percent of the kindergarten students she screened had acanthosis nigricans, a disorder characterized by dark, thick patches on the skin. Acanthosis nigricans can signal insulin resistance, warning of diabetes, a disease in which the body does not produce or properly use insulin. Insulin, a hormone produced by the pancreas, controls the level of sugar in the body and helps the body use glucose as fuel. Excess fat tissue and insufficient muscle, which come from a lack of exercise, predispose a person to diabetes. Left untreated, diabetes can lead to blindness and loss of limbs; many of the children she found with acanthosis nigricans had never been to a doctor. 
 Visio -- an intensely organized and practical 47-year-old woman who makes spreadsheets of her own children's after-school activities and who cooks meals on Sunday for the entire week -- was deeply worried and deeply frustrated. ''People who were supposed to be helping these children'' -- school nurses, school food-service officials, even parents -- ''were teaching them the wrong things. They wanted to make the children happy by giving them what they wanted. It was making the children sick.''
According to Nancy Butte, director of the Viva la Familia Project at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, 40 to 60 percent of the prevalence of childhood obesity in the Hispanic population can be attributed to genetic factors. ''Much has been written about children who are overweight,'' said Butte, explaining her study, ''but little is known about why Hispanic children in particular tend to be more at risk for obesity.'' Many believe that there is, most likely, a set of genes that makes some people more susceptible than others. Butte suggests that at least part of the genetic component may be related to ''the thrifty-gene hypothesis,'' the theory that some combinations of chromosomes create a situation in which cells are more inclined to store calories efficiently for times of scarcity. Some researchers have speculated that because many Mexican-Americans are descendants of American Indian hunter-gatherers, who evolved to store fat more easily for times of famine, those living a sedentary life in modern westernized societies with access to fast food may be more prone to gain weight. 
 Butte has embarked on a five-year program of intensive metabolic and physiological testing, taking blood samples from Hispanic children and their parents, scrutinizing how children metabolize calories and analyzing body composition. She explained that the self-reported data she collected did not show great differences in calorie intake between children who were obese and children who weren't. But as Butte notes, ''We know they have to be eating more,'' and everyone tends to underestimate how many calories they eat. In order to assess how individuals actually metabolize what they consume, Butte is also gathering data in a ''room calorimeter,'' an extreme measure that involves a sealed chamber equipped with a bed, toilet, sink, desk, TV, CD player and telephone, where children spend up to 24 hours. Here, caloric intake, as well as how much oxygen a child breathes and how much carbon dioxide she exhales, can be precisely recorded.
 Outside factors are not helping, either. Throughout America, high-calorie fast food is cheaper than food that's good for you. Starr County has its share of franchises, including McDonald's, Dairy Queen, Jack in the Box and Burger King. What's more, in the Rio Grande Valley, as elsewhere, children are not getting enough exercise, a fact linked by some to the general indifference to exercise along with the misapprehension of risk: the risk of, say, letting your kid run around the neighborhood versus the risk of encouraging a sedentary life by keeping her home.
 ''If you look at the probability of something that's in the headlines -- that your kid is abducted -- the probability of that happening to your child is very low, though certainly it's a terrible thing,'' said Deanna Hoelscher, director of the Human Nutrition Center at the University of Texas's School of Public Health at Houston. ''But if it happens, everybody hears about it, so the perception is that the risk is very high. However, the probability of your kid being overweight right now is very high, because a lot of kids are overweight. So you have to balance things out. Though of course, providing safe places for children to play would alleviate parents' fears.'' 
 While to date few have studied them, the sociological underpinnings of childhood obesity in Hispanic communities seem to operate on three levels: inside Hispanic -- and American -- culture as a whole, inside specific communities like Starr County and inside families. Visio's most rewarding work has been inside individual families; as she puts it, ''I've got to get to that home, that mom, that family, that grandmother. Get inside that child's world. The child doesn't have the money to buy groceries.''
 One afternoon she met with Cristen Gonzalez, who was 9 years old, and Cristen's mother, Gracie, a schoolteacher in Rio Grande City, to discuss the situation at home. Two months before, Christen started Visio's program. At that time, Cristen, the oldest of three children, was well into the overweight range. Cristen has a small, sweet voice, is on the elementary-school drill team and wants to rescue animals when she grows up. She also wants to be a good girl, and in the context of Visio's program, with its focus on healthful food and weekly nutrition and exercise classes, her mother was concerned. ''She's been obsessing about the program,'' whispered Gracie, who was also hoping to lose weight. Cristen drew quietly at a folding table. ''This week especially, she's been so self-conscious. I can't have it anymore.''
 Guilt is a major problem in dealing with childhood obesity -- the guilt parents feel in denying their children food or inadvertently making them self-conscious about their weight, the guilt children try to instill in their parents in order to get what they want. Gracie, by all rights, has a lot to feel proud about. The Gonzalez family is strong, loving, disciplined and intact. Gracie and her husband both have good jobs in the school district; they don't eat much fast food, going out for only one meal a week, lunch after church on Sunday; and they are still married -- and that puts them way ahead of most families in the county, where jobs and structured families are scarce. Once, a few years ago, when a friend of Cristen's came to sleep over, the little girl saw Gracie in the kitchen and begged her to make her spaghetti; people rarely cooked in her house. The girl also found it exotic that Cristen had a bedtime; she was used to falling asleep around midnight from sheer exhaustion. 
 Still, life for the Gonzalezes was not so easy. Three kids plus two working parents did not leave Gracie time each week to plan menus and shop carefully for groceries, which Visio explained she should do. So harried was Gracie that she sometimes caught up on paperwork while her children ate dinner. This meant, to Visio's eyes at least, that Cristen was more or less having to tackle her weight problem alone.
 Visio asked Gracie what her past week was like.
 ''Crazy,'' she replied. ''So crazy. My husband had to take care of his parents, and my little Anthony'' -- who is 5 -- ''lost his two front teeth running into his best friend's head. I walked out of a staff meeting to get here. I've barely had time to eat.''
 Visio pressed her, ''Have you been sitting down for meals together at night?'' The Journal of Adolescent Health has reported that families that eat together consume healthier food.
 Gracie smiled and shook her head. ''Haven't had time.''
 ''Do you think this weekend you can make menus again, go shopping?''
 ''Next week.''
 ''Cristen needs you -- you just told me, she's obsessing on the program.'' 
 ''Don't make me feel worse,'' Gracie said. ''I already feel bad enough.''
 Cristen looked up from her drawing again. 
 ''Twenty minutes, just 20 minutes,'' Visio said. ''Everyone has 20 minutes. I'm sorry to tell you this, Gracie, but if you're not sitting down to meals together and showing her you eat just like you're telling her to, you're putting it all on her.''
Across town at the John and Olive Hinojosa Elementary School, on an unpaved road beside one of the colonias, 50 second and third graders in red-and-white uniforms spent phys-ed class having a dance party under a big gazebo. It's rare to see children in Rio Grande City being so active outside. The average high temperature is above 87 degrees for nine months of the year, and even in the cooler months, the north wind blows fiercely across the Rio Grande plain. Despite the day's heat, the dance party was a grand success, the kids jumping and shaking and feeling confident and comfortable. But paradoxically, that confidence can create its own problems. Sometimes, explained Olga Smedley, the principal, that self-certainty gives the children the upper hand in dealings with their parents. Starr County has three bridges to Mexico, and countless places for unofficial crossings. Some women who live in the area arrived from Mexico pregnant in order to have American-born children. As a result, many parents are trying to raise children in a country where they aren't supposed to be.
 ''A lot of these parents give in to their kids too much,'' said Smedley, a pretty and trim mother of three who grew up in the Rio Grande City area and does her best to resist her chubby 6-year-old's relentless requests for shrimp scampi. The upended power dynamics can lead parents to cede authority to children and lead children to bully their parents. ''These children threaten their parents,'' Smedley said. ''They say: 'If you spank me, or if you do this, I'm going to call child protective services. I'm going to call the police.' '' Smedley explained that the kids are just being kids, but the parents, perhaps feeling vulnerable, capitulate. ''Who's in control?'' Smedley asked, her eyes widening and her frustration apparent. ''I told the parents -- it's because you're allowing it.''
 The odd power dynamic affects food choices as well. After Visio trimmed back the fat and sugar from the school lunch and breakfast menus -- no more breakfasts of sugar-coated cereals and a bag of cookies; in fact, cookies are no longer served, and cereals are low in sugar -- many teachers were pleased. But the children, not surprisingly, were not happy, a feeling they expressed by staging lunchroom protests and hanging signs outside some cafeterias that read ''No more diet'' and ''We want to eat cool stuff -- pizza, nachos, burritos, cheese fries.'' Visio expected as much from the kids, but what caught her short was how much the children's hounding got to their parents, and how often those parents caved to their children's shortsighted, unhealthful wishes. ''We have one morbidly obese girl, and since we changed the menus, her mother has been stuffing her backpack with three bags of chips and three candy bars, every day,'' Visio said. ''This is in addition to a full breakfast and lunch. Some of these parents are just afraid to say no. They love their children, but their children have them convinced that if they eat a healthy diet, they will starve.'' 
The issues affecting the Hispanic child-obesity epidemic have been the hardest to talk about, and Roel Gonzalez, the school superintendent, has appointed himself the man for the job. ''I know we always hear sad stories about different groups of people, but this is one group that's very sad,'' Gonzalez said over breakfast one morning. 
 Many of the concerns he described are true of American culture as a whole and crystallized in Starr County. ''The attitude here is hoard as much as you can right now, because there might not be tomorrow.'' Some health care researchers who are studying obesity and diabetes among Hispanics talk about an undercurrent called fatalismo -- the belief that there's little you can do to alter your own destiny, so why not live for today? ''But we have to change,'' Gonzalez said. ''We don't have more time. This is something we need to get on now, but we're going to go slowly. Like my dad says, if you're in a hurry, go slow, and I'm in an awful hurry.''
 Gonzalez grew up in Starr County, left for a time to work in upstate New York and Washington and now every morning puts on a suit and heads to Che's, the restaurant downstairs in Rio Grande City's one elegant old border hotel, where we met one day. Gonzalez sees himself as the children's advocate in the ''Lean on Me'' tradition, the stalwart authority figure, the local boy made good. ''The kids are not negotiable,'' he said in his husky, urgent voice, stopping often to greet every customer who walked in by name. ''You can have my parking space, my office, I don't care, but I will never negotiate the kids. Those children's lives are my responsibility. Not only academically -- their lives physically are in my hands.''
 Gonzalez has decided that the children deserve not only positive change -- when Visio approached Gonzalez about revising the breakfast and lunch menus for the kids in her diabetes program, he instructed her to alter menus for the entire district -- but also to hear adults speak the truth about the particular problems in their community. In the past year, he set up salad bars for all the teachers (''the teachers have to model it, because kids idolize their teachers, and if they don't, they're bad teachers''). He also hired Rey Ramirez, a local Hispanic athlete -- a Texas track and field champion -- to try to get his town physically active again. As a farmhand, Gonzalez's father never had to seek out exercise, but Gonzalez himself, like a lot of his neighbors, is packing a few extra pounds. He understands what the children are up against. ''Out here it's 110 degrees at 6 in the afternoon, and not very many people want to go outside and play. Myself, I get up every morning and walk. I get up at 4:45 a.m. or 5, and it's hard. Some mornings, I just want to stay in bed. If it's so hard for me, I can only imagine what it's like for a child.''
 Gonzalez also talked about how attitudes toward self-reliance have changed significantly in the course of a single generation. He told a story I heard several times from people over 40 in Rio Grande City. ''When I went to school they gave you colored coupons,'' he said. ''The blue one meant you paid for your lunch. The white one was a reduced price. The pink one was free, and you didn't want to be seen with the pink one. People would tear you apart.'' Now government assistance is a major part of the fabric of society. In addition to free meals for their children in school, many adults in Starr County receive food stamps, health care and utility and housing subsidies. Much of this is beneficial, of course, but Gonzalez also explained that it has contributed to eroding the old norms. A while back, for instance, Gonzalez caught a girl smoking marijuana. ''I told her that's not what I would call normal behavior for a girl of 12, and she said, 'It's normal in my house.' It's normal in my house. We've got to change what's normal.''
 The parents in Gonzalez's community are as loving as you'll find anywhere, but, as Gonzalez explained, there is an inclination to overempathize or overcompensate with their children. This is happening across cultures and classes throughout the country. Children are indulged and are obese everywhere, but the conditions in Starr County aggravate the problem. His term to describe this is ''pobrecito syndrome,'' an affliction of parents and other adults, passed down to youngsters, part fatalismo and part a communal throwing up of the hands. Pobrecito means ''poor little thing,'' and ''the pobrecito syndrome,'' Gonzalez said, occurs when parents ''feel sorry for their child and they're doing the best they can but -- they're just so sorry and they really do nothing. All they do without intending to is perpetuate the problem, and so it continues.'' Or to put it another way, some parents can have bad habits -- regarding food, drugs, exercise, financial responsibility -- that they want to change, or say they want to change, but can't. ''Basically, it's an addiction. We just can't get the parents off the TV, and we can't get them to stop eating fast food. We can't get them to do anything. And the kids aren't going to get off the TV if the parents don't get off the TV. It's going to be a long, hard battle, because it's very hard to reach the child if the parent is entrenched.''
 Several years ago, Gonzalez and his wife started a Subway franchise in Rio Grande City in order to provide a quick, affordable option to greasy fast food. It was one small step -- like his current efforts to secure financing to build an indoor pool and nice walking paths in town -- but Gonzalez realizes the problems run much deeper. ''We have drugs everywhere,'' he said. ''The cemeteries are full of people who OD'ed. We have kids coming to school who've seen a father or a brother shot, kids who are dealing with a parent in prison.'' 
 Still, when Gonzalez says he's been up all night thinking about a kindergartner who weighs 90 pounds -- the average for an American kindergartner is about half that -- it's easy to believe him. ''We have to catch them between kindergarten and second grade, because after that it gets real hard,'' he told me. ''The ones that are slightly obese, what we call 'chubbies,' at that stage they can change. But once they get too big, it's next to impossible.'' With so many children and parents overweight or obese, there's little stigma attached to being fat. Teasing about extra heft or gentle nudging to eat more healthfully doesn't begin until the problem is quite dire. ''They think, I look good. They don't already see that they're in the danger zone.'' Gonzalez slipped his suit jacket back on to rush off to the high school for the day. ''These kids mean the world to me. We've got to make the first move. If we ask the kids to make the first move, we're going to lose the battle.'' 
In her pink terry tank top and shorts, Cristen stopped by the Rio Grande health center to be weighed and measured by Visio's team before heading to a pool party for the drill team. By 9 a.m., the morning was scorchingly hot already, and in line at the health center in front of Cristen stood a boy in a dark blue T-shirt and dark blue pants named Alfredo. Daniel Hale, a pediatric endocrinologist at the University of Texas Health Science Center in San Antonio, and one of the nation's leading experts on childhood diabetes, looked at the blood pressure cuff and said to Alfredo, ''I bet we need a little bit bigger one for you.'' Then he said to the boy, ''So, what have you been doing?''
 Alfredo said, ''The kids all went to the pool on Friday, but I didn't want to go, so I just stayed home.'' 
 Hale measured him at 4 feet 11 inches, then he put him on the body-composition analyzer scale, where Alfredo registered 171 pounds and 46 percent body fat. 
 ''The problem is,'' Hale said after the boy left, ''most of the potential solutions rest either on very large changes in public policy or very small changes that individuals and families must make in the context of their own home. There's very little we in the public-health community can do. We don't have very much control over what children eat, we don't have much control over safety, which affects where children play, and we're not in people's homes, where kids are taking part in the major sedentary behavior, known as television watching. And here in South Texas, where you can get an Extreme Gulp, which is 52 ounces of soda, and a bag of chips for a dollar, and there aren't many outlets for physical activity, the kids are at great risk. The biggest problem is not that that kid doesn't feel comfortable swimming. The biggest problem is that the long-term consequences of an unhealthy lifestyle begin to accumulate 15 to 20 years after those lifestyles are initiated. When these kids are in their 20's, the consequences are really going to come home to roost.'' 
 When it came to Cristen's turn, she weighed in at 10 pounds less than two months before, when she started the program. Her mother, Gracie, two younger lean children in tow, said proudly: ''It wasn't until she started school that you couldn't see her neck. Now you can see more of her neck.''
 Cristen smiled and stood up for herself. ''I have to say, I have a neck, and it's right here.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Food Fight: The cafeteria at Hinojosa Elementary. Throughout the county, arguments have flared between administrators -- who have removed unhealthful items from the menu -- and the kids, who want their nachos and cheese fries back.
A healthful diet helps fight obesity, but in Rio Grande City, where 59 percent of the kids live below the poverty line, fast food is everywhere.
Cristen Gonzalez, who was enrolled in the diabetes-risk-reduction project
 overweight at age 9, she lost 10 pounds in two months. (Photographs by Chris Anderson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OBESITY (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); POVERTY RATES (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (89%); CANCER (87%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (86%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (86%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (84%); ARTHRITIS (78%); EROSION (78%); IMMIGRATION (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); CHILD POVERTY (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); STARVATION (75%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); FLOOD ZONES (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); NUTRITION (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (70%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (69%); DIABETES (69%); MIGRANT WORKERS (68%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (66%); FARM LABOR (66%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (66%); BREAST CANCER (66%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (65%); STROKES (64%); HEART DISEASE (64%); COLORECTAL CANCER (64%); HYPERTENSION (64%); SLEEP DISORDERS (50%) Weight; Mexican-Americans; Hispanic-Americans; Research; Genetics and Heredity; Children and Youth; Weight

ORGANIZATION: BAYLOR UNIVERSITY (59%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%) Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; Baylor University

PERSON: Elizabeth Weil; Nancy Butte

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%) Starr County (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



24 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1728 words

HEADLINE: Not So Merrily, They Roll Along: Pedicabs Vie for Midtown Riders

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN and NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
At first, the giant tricycles did not seem quite so threatening.
 Pedicabs were more of a novelty than a legitimate mode of transport when a group of environmentalists and artists in Manhattan began pedaling them -- and peddling rides on them -- nine years ago. 
 But in the past two years, according to unofficial estimates, the number of pedicabs has nearly doubled, spurred by an influx of entrepreneurs and popularized when they were featured on Donald J. Trump's reality television show, ''The Apprentice.'' 
 Long popular in Southeast Asia, pedicabs are now combatants in a quiet war on the streets of Midtown, with tourist dollars as the primary spoils. 
 Drivers of horse-drawn carriages and taxicabs are demanding a crackdown on the unlicensed three-wheelers. Along Central Park South, hackney drivers accuse pedicab operators of stealing their customers in what has long been their domain. Cabdrivers say their exclusive license to pick up passengers who hail them on the streets is slowly being undermined. 
 After years in which pedicabs were seen only as rare curiosities, the city has taken notice of their recent proliferation. Officials are talking about regulating the vehicles, citing concerns about public safety and accident liability. Pedicab operators say the vehicles now number about 220, and officials say the rapid increase has caught them by surprise. 
 ''It's burgeoning,'' said the city's commissioner of consumer affairs, Gretchen Dykstra, whose department oversees hackney carriages and is considering rules for pedicabs. ''There are many more of them, and they seem to be popping up almost weekly.''
 Ms. Dykstra said that her department was aware of one nonfatal accident involving a pedicab and that she was particularly concerned about the lack of liability insurance among several pedicab operators.
 Nearly all the pedicabs, which can carry two passengers, are operated in Midtown. The drivers -- many of them students, actors or recent immigrants -- typically charge $1 a minute, but a passenger carrying a few extra pounds and traveling a route with steep inclines can expect to pay considerably more. 
 Carriages charge $34 for the first half hour and $10 for every 15 minutes thereafter. Taxicabs charge $2.50 upon entry and 40 cents for every one-fifth of a mile, or for every two minutes when they are stalled in traffic under six miles an hour. 
 Operators say their best business is on rainy or snowy days, when taxicabs are hard to find, and in the evenings, after performances at Broadway theaters or at Radio City Music Hall. Their growing presence at heavily trafficked intersections has rivals complaining, loudly. 
 Cornelius P. Byrne, who inherited his father's stable and hackney carriages in 1964, said the pedicab operators were jeopardizing his livelihood. 
 ''These guys have just gone out into the streets, and nobody's questioned them,'' Mr. Byrne said. ''It's kind of crazy. Nobody is asking if it's right, or legal.''
 Mr. Byrne and his brother own 18 horses and 7 of the 68 carriages licensed by the Department of Consumer Affairs. The number of carriages, as well as routes and fares, are regulated under the city's administrative code.
 The effects of the competition are hard to quantify, but cabbies and carriage drivers say the pedicabs are an unwelcome variable in the grim arithmetic of making a living by operating a vehicle for hire. 
 Mohammed Diarra, a cabdriver for five years, estimates that he has lost 10 percent of his business, concentrated in the Midtown theater and business district, since the pedicabs began to explode in popularity.
 ''Business has definitely dropped off,'' he said. ''It's bad. If I had a choice, I'd get rid of them. The traffic isn't safe, and they pick up our passengers. We pay a lot of money to pick people up in Manhattan.'' 
 Three months ago, Mr. Diarra said, the weekly rental fee he pays for his medallion rose to $780, from $650.
 The competition has been especially fierce during the holiday season, as the carriages and the pedicabs vie for the same tourists. 
 At the southeast corner of Central Park on Thursday, people were lining up two rows deep for carriage rides. Pedicab operators nearby were unapologetic about descending on the traditional hub of carriage activity. 
 ''We're tempted to pick off their rides,'' said Mark Stringer, sitting on his pedicab outside the Plaza Hotel. ''Generally, we stay off their turf. They have more business than they can handle.'' 
 But Mr. Stringer, a stock day trader who has driven a pedicab since July, acknowledged that relations were often not amicable. Once, he said, he was riding his tricycle through Central Park when a carriage driver berated him for riding in the right lane long used by the carriages. ''He waved his whip at me,'' Mr. Stringer said, adding, ''I think he was being humorous.''
 Far from forming a unified front, the pedicab operators are bitterly divided between the veterans and the newcomers. One of the original operators, George R. Bliss, who is credited with pioneering commercial use of pedicabs in Manhattan, said he was ready to give up the business because of ruthless competition from newer entrepreneurs. 
 ''This has just gone haywire,'' he said, complaining that his drivers are going over to competitors who he said have newer equipment but often do not carry insurance. ''I'm losing drivers like crazy.'' 
 In 1993, Mr. Bliss and a group of acquaintances bought a dozen used pedicabs from a man who had operated them in Honolulu and Miami Beach, before municipal authorities in those cities restricted their use. 
 ''When we first started operating the handful of cabs, we were met with both applause and bewilderment,'' said Peter M. Meitzler, who was part of the group.
 While the rest of the group fell away, Mr. Bliss obtained accident insurance and started his company, Pedicabs of New York, in 1995. Mr. Meitzler began his own company, Manhattan Rickshaw, shortly thereafter. 
 The explosion in pedicabs has created something of an economic paradox. With competitors sprouting up, no one has established control of the industry, and it is not clear if anyone is making money yet. 
 The old-timers say their tenuous profit margins have all but vanished. Mr. Bliss, a sometime actor and industrial designer, leases each of his 32 pedicabs for $30 to $40 a day, but the income is barely enough to cover the cost of renting his maintenance garage in SoHo. ''If these opportunists hadn't arrived, we were going to start raising our rates,'' he said.
 Mr. Meitzler, who holds a full-time job as a legal assistant, leases each of his 13 pedicabs for $25 to $45 a day. He said he also made money from advertisements on his pedicabs for Altoids breath mints, Axe men's body spray and deodorant and The New Yorker magazine.
 The industry might have remained genteel and eccentric, until others saw the potential for profit.
 Stephen H. Meyer, whose company is a leading pedicab manufacturer, said he has delivered more pedicabs to New York in the past year than in all the previous years combined since 1992, when he started his company, Main Street Pedicabs, in Broomfield, Colo. 
 Each pedicab costs $3,400 and is made of a steel alloy frame, with 21 speeds, hydraulic brakes and a fiberglass passenger cab that can seat two adults.
 Mr. Meyer owns a stake in Mr. Meitzler's company, but his leading customer is a young man named Matthew Sanda, who is probably the most prominent of the new pedicab entrepreneurs.
 Mr. Sanda, 27, moved to New York from his native Trout Lake, Wash., to attend acting school, but now spends nearly all his time at his garage in Chelsea. He and a business partner began their company, Mr. Rickshaw L.L.C., in May with 23 new pedicabs and an accident insurance policy, but it has not made money yet.
 ''This whole year the business has changed drastically,'' Mr. Sanda said. 
 In March, Mr. Trump may have helped to stimulate demand for the pedicabs when contestants on his show competed to see who could make the most money from a set of leased Manhattan pedicabs.
 As if pedicabs were not enough, another recent tourist vehicle is the PartyBike, a red seven-seat multiwheeled contraption made in Germany; up to six riders sit in a circle, pedaling, while the driver steers from the rear. Passengers can get aboard outside the Toys ''R'' Us store at Times Square.
 The entry of so many pedicabs has heightened the competition among drivers. 
 ''We try to have decorum, have some class, but the new pedicab guys don't,'' said David Sirk, an actor who has driven a pedicab since 2002. ''If I'm parked here, trying to sell a ride, some guy will pull up in front of me. Now there are so many new guys, so many new idiots.''
 Last summer, Mr. Sirk recalled, ''there was a big brouhaha at Tavern on the Green because the pedicabs were stealing business from the carriages.'' The restaurant in Central Park has been a traditional pickup point for the carriages. 
 Complaints from cabdrivers have also gotten the attention of the city's Taxi and Limousine Commission. 
 ''While the T.L.C. has no regulatory authority over nonmotorized vehicles, drivers have raised a number of concerns about pedicabs with us,'' the chairman of the commission, Matthew W. Daus, said through a spokesman. ''We are pleased that the Department of Consumer Affairs is taking a closer look at this issue.'' 
 In the summer of 2001, the administration of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani drafted pedicab regulations that would have required operators to hold a driver's license and be fingerprinted. The rules would have required headlights, taillights, turn signals, side-mounted mirrors and tire reflectors, as well as seat belts and waterproof canopies for passengers.
 The proposal was shelved after the Sept. 11 terrorist attack, but city officials may revive it. In July, they convened a meeting with pedicab owners and drivers. 
 ''We have begun to explore the feasibility and desirability of recommending a regulatory scheme, but no decisions have been made, and those discussions are not over,'' Ms. Dykstra, the consumer affairs commissioner, said in an interview. 
 Until this summer, she added, she had not thought much about pedicabs, except for the time in 1998 she rode one, in Vietnam. ''The irony is that it's an ancient industry that is new to New York, and so there are lots of questions being asked.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jonathan Whittaker crossing Central Park South near the Plaza Hotel with David and Lynn Fisher of London. The growth in pedicabs has caught city officials by surprise. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. 19)
The growing competition from pedicabs along Central Park South has many in the horse carriage business looking over their shoulders.
 George R. Bliss, a pioneer in bringing pedicabs to New York, said the income barely covers the rental cost for his maintenance garage. (Photographs by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. 20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); REALITY TELEVISION (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (74%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); CONSUMER LAW (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (66%); THEATER (62%); TOURISM (55%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (54%) Roads and Traffic; Pedicabs (Bicycle Taxis); Travel and Vacations

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (55%) Sewell Chan; Nicholas Confessore

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



25 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER: COMPETITION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Lower Fares Shift Traffic to Less-Used Airports

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
FED up with high air fares, travelers have been voting with their feet or, more accurately, their tires. 
 Over the past four years, passengers have demonstrated a growing willingness to drive up to two hours to alternative airports, where budget carriers like Southwest and JetBlue offer substantially cheaper fares. Realizing that, the major airlines -- which are often the dominant carriers at big airports like Miami International, Logan in Boston or O'Hare in Chicago -- are beginning to fight back. Companies such as American, Delta and US Airways are cutting fares -- particularly last-minute fares -- in hopes of luring customers back, despite the toll it is taking on their profits.
 Last-minute fares in cities like Miami, Cincinnati and Philadelphia, which used to top $1,000, are now capped at limits of $499 to $699 each way, and sometimes cost much less. 
 The efforts are too new to show measurable results, but the situation demonstrates that consumers have the power to make the airlines respond, as long as there is competition within a distance travelers are willing to drive. 
 Their biggest aid has been the Internet, which abounds with sites that allow consumers to compare fares in surrounding cities. ''In many markets, there are no takers except for the lowest possible fares,'' said Robert W. Mann Jr., an industry consultant based in Port Washington, N.Y.
 A leading example is Miami International Airport, long the most important airport in South Florida for flights from New York and other East Coast destinations, as well as to the Caribbean and points farther south.
 American, the nation's biggest airline, has had a lock on Miami since the demise of Eastern Airlines in the early 1990's. (American has 60.6 percent of daily domestic flights from Miami.) And it has charged steep fares -- what the industry calls a ''network premium'' -- as a result of its dominant position.
 Then JetBlue Airways, the low-fare company, began service in 2000. Its inaugural flight was a run between Kennedy Airport in New York and Fort Lauderdale, about a 45-minute drive north of Miami. Now JetBlue offers 28 flights a day to Fort Lauderdale from New York, Washington, Boston and Long Beach, Calif., as well as service to another nearby airport, West Palm Beach. Southwest, the industry's biggest low-fare carrier, and AirTran also fly into both Fort Lauderdale and West Palm Beach.
 The effect on Miami's traffic is significant when measured by the number of available seats on flights to and from the airport, the way the industry charts demand at a particular destination. Since 2000, the number of available seats from Miami has dropped nearly 17 percent. Meanwhile, the number of seats available from Fort Lauderdale has climbed 33 percent, while seats from West Palm Beach are up 10 percent, according to Back Aviation Solutions, an industry consulting firm.
 Facing the prospect that JetBlue would add even more Florida service in coming months, American finally decided it had to do something. In November, it placed a $699 cap on last-minute one-way fares to Miami, Fort Lauderdale and West Palm Beach. American eliminated the need for a Saturday night stay, and it reduced the number of types of fares that it offered to each of those cities.
 ''It was a good business decision by American,'' said Michael Allen, the chief operating officer at Back Aviation.
 Even so, American's $699 cap is still more than double the most expensive fares offered by JetBlue and Southwest, which charge a top fare, even if booked at the last minute, of $299 each way. Those lower caps are well above the bargain fares passengers can get if they book well in advance on American. The lowest one-way American fare from Miami to New York during the week before Christmas was $94, according to Back Aviation.
 As far as JetBlue can tell, the fledgling American program has had ''no noticeable effect'' on demand for its seats, said Gareth Edmondson-Jones, a company spokesman.
 Delta Air Lines, however, is boasting of a jump in traffic at Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport, where it began a similar effort to cut fares last August. The move came despite the fact that Delta controls more than 90 percent of the traffic at Cincinnati, which it uses as one of its United States hubs. 
 Though traffic at Cincinnati had dropped far less than at Miami over the past four years, Delta officials found that the airport was losing 2,500 passengers a day to nearby airports with a low-fare presence, including Dayton in Ohio, Lexington and Louisville in Kentucky, and even Indianapolis, which is a two-hour trek away.
 About 20 percent of passengers from the Cincinnati area make the drive to Indianapolis, the home base of ATA Airways, a low-fare airline that recently announced a deal to share flight designations with Southwest. Hoping to stop the defections, Delta introduced SimpliFares, a plan that cut last-minute one-way fares to $499, and like American's plan, eliminated the need for a Saturday stay. Delta's chief executive, Gerald A. Grinstein, said the airline's traffic in Cincinnati had gone up 30 percent since the plan was introduced.
 Both American and Delta acted in response to competition that was circling their airports but that had not yet landed. By contrast, US Airways found out that when an airline waits too long, a challenger can arrive on its doorstep.
 That is what happened in Philadelphia, where Southwest began flights in May. Since then, it has more than doubled its service, even though US Airways responded with a plan called GoFares. It, too, has a cap on last-minute fares -- $499 each way and no Saturday night stay requirement.
 The Philadelphia airport has long battled nearby Baltimore-Washington International for passengers, proving that the challenges are not just an issue for the airlines, but for the big airports themselves. 
 Two examples are Boston and Chicago, where Southwest has attracted passengers to smaller airports.
 At Logan Airport in Boston, the number of available seats has dropped by about 20 percent since 2000. Although the suffering New England economy is partly to blame for the decline, the seat situation is the opposite for two nearby airports served by Southwest: The number of seats has climbed 39 percent in Manchester, N.H., and about 5 percent in Providence, about an hour south of Logan airport. In the first half of 2004, the average one-way fare from Manchester to Chicago Midway on Southwest was $112; on United from Logan to O'Hare in Chicago, the fare was $181 each way.
 Chicago's two airports have experienced a similar trend. In the past four years, the number of available seats from O'Hare, dominated by United and American, has dropped, while available seats have jumped at Midway Airport, where Southwest is poised to become the dominant airline. At the start of this year, the average one-way fare from Midway on Southwest was $86, while the average one-way domestic fare on United from O'Hare was $152.
 Last month, Southwest bought 6 of the 14 gates leased at Midway by ATA , which filed for bankruptcy protection in October. That gives Southwest more than half the gates there, and means it will be able to expand its schedules beyond the 175 flights it offers each day, potentially allowing it to pull even more passengers away from O'Hare. That is a far more attractive prospect now that the city of Chicago recently completed a top-to-bottom overhaul of Midway, giving it a modern gleam.
 For consumers, long required to pay higher fares, such chances to save money can only be good. But for the big airlines, which are expected to post more losses in 2005 on top of about $35 million lost since the year 2000, the thought that more airports may be wrested from their grip is sobering.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Southwest Airlines has attracted passengers from Boston's airport to one in Manchester, N.H. (Photo by Bob LaPree for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); AIRLINES (92%); AIR FARES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); CITY LIFE (74%) Airlines and Airplanes; Airports; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (85%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (84%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (53%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (85%); LCC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



26 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; PAPERBACK ROW; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 721 words

BYLINE: By Ihsan Taylor

 BODY:

ABSOLUTE FRIENDS, by John le Carre. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $13.95.) Le Carre returns to his cold war stomping grounds of Germany and Eastern Europe in this compelling novel about espionage counterparts. With the fall of the Berlin Wall, these double agents -- an English expatriate and a German radical who found their ''natural art form'' in spying -- try to redefine their idealism and reignite their passions over the invasion of Iraq. Last year in the Book Review, Terrence Rafferty described Le Carre as ''an old pro with the ardent heart of an amateur.''

WHO KILLED DANIEL PEARL? by Bernard-Henri Levy. Translated by James X. Mitchell. (Melville House, $12.95.) Levy spent a year investigating the murder of Daniel Pearl, a Wall Street Journal correspondent (and an American Jew) who was killed days after his kidnapping in Pakistan on Jan. 23, 2002. This sharply observed account -- which our critic, Robert D. Kaplan, called ''a gripping synthesis of philosophy and reportage'' -- follows the kidnappers' trail to the highest reaches of Al Qaeda and Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency. Mariane Pearl's MIGHTY HEART: The Inside Story of the Al Qaeda Kidnapping of Danny Pearl (Scribner, $13), written with Sarah Crichton, is a graceful account of the intense effort to rescue her husband, his murder and its aftermath.

HOTTENTOT VENUS, by Barbara Chase-Riboud. (Anchor, $13.) In this earnest historical novel, Chase-Riboud humanizes the indignities endured by Sarah Baartman, a young woman from South Africa's Eastern Cape, who was lured to Europe in 1810 and displayed as a scientific oddity and sideshow curiosity -- even after her death in 1816.

GETTYSBURG, by Stephen W. Sears. (Mariner/Houghton Mifflin, $17.) This authoritative study recounts the Civil War's largest and most important battle, which claimed some 57,000 casualties over the course of three days in the summer of 1863. Sears, a pre-eminent Civil War historian, presents balanced portraits of Gen. Robert E. Lee and Gen. George Meade, and finds clues to the Union's victory in the events leading to battle. Our reviewer, Jay Winik, called Sears's reconstruction ''the Civil War equivalent of a modern spy satellite photograph. He hovers above the action, giving us a panoramic view.''

A SUNDAY AT THE POOL IN KIGALI, by Gil Courtemanche. Translated by Patricia Claxton. (Vintage, $13.95.) Set against a backdrop of AIDS and genocide in Rwanda in the mid-1990's, Courtemanche's wonderfully textured novel follows a burned-out Canadian journalist who drifts along but cannot detach himself from the atrocities, ''the hopelessness of living.'' The author -- a French Canadian journalist -- dedicated the novel to ''my Rwandan friends swept away in the maelstrom.''

INVENTING JAPAN: 1853-1964, by Ian Buruma. (Modern Library Chronicles, $12.95.) This concise, penetrating history of modern Japan begins with Commodore Perry's visit and suggests that, in the course of transforming itself from an isolated archipelago into a global power, Japan borrowed many authoritarian habits of thought from the West.

CASTLES OF STEEL: Britain, Germany, and the Winning of the Great War at Sea, by Robert K. Massie. (Ballantine, $17.95.) A bookend to Massie's ''Dreadnought: Britain, Germany, and the Coming of the Great War'' (1991), this dramatic chronicle focuses on the naval battles of World War I. The author, a Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer, explores the mechanics of naval warfare ( notably the Battle of Jutland in 1916) and includes several vividly drawn characters. In the Book Review Max Boot called this ''a work of impressive literary craftsmanship.''

SOFTWAR: An Intimate Portrait of Larry Ellison and Oracle, by Matthew Symonds with commentary by Larry Ellison. (Simon & Schuster, $16.) Working with Ellison's cooperation, Symonds, the political editor of The Economist, has written an illuminating character study of a software billionaire and his company, known for both its cutting-edge technology and its aggressive corporate tactics.

SO MANY BOOKS, SO LITTLE TIME: A Year of Passionate Reading, by Sara Nelson. (Berkley, $13.) Nelson, the publishing columnist for The New York Post, recounts how a simple plan -- to read 52 books in 52 weeks -- fell apart almost immediately, and comments on the nature of reading itself. Ihsan Taylor


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Jane Bown
 Susan Oristaglio)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); COLD WAR (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (88%); HISTORY (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MURDER (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); GENOCIDE (50%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); RWANDA (79%); IRAQ (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



27 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: Apocalypse When?

BYLINE: By Peter Singer. 
Peter Singer is a professor of bioethics at Princeton University. His recent books include ''One World'' and ''The President of Good and Evil: The Ethics of George W. Bush.''

 BODY:

CATASTROPHE
Risk and Response.
By Richard A. Posner.
322 pp. Oxford University Press. $28.
 AN asteroid colliding with the earth could cause the extinction of our species. Is this a risk worth worrying about? More important, is it a risk worth doing something about? Richard A. Posner, a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, who produces more books in his leisure hours than most authors do working full time, thinks it is. 
 We should also, he argues, be doing more about other improbable catastrophes. Global warming could cause the melting of icecaps, releasing huge amounts of methane that accelerate further warming, forming a cloud layer so dense as to block out heat from the sun and cause us to go into a deep freeze. High-energy particle accelerators, used by physicists to investigate the fundamental laws of nature, could produce particles that create hyperdense ''strange matter'' that in turn might attract nearby nuclei, thus growing larger and attracting ever more nuclei, until the entire planet is compressed into a sphere no more than 100 meters in diameter.
 Not worried about these possibilities? Then what about the prospect of bioterrorists genetically modifying an incurable strain of smallpox that wipes out the human species? That might seem a more realistic scenario.
 ''Catastrophe'' lives up to its title. But it is no sci-fi potboiler, and there will be no movie. Posner made his name defending an economically rational approach to the law, and his new book is dense with complex calculations of the expected costs of catastrophic events, and the amount worth spending in attempts to avert them. The expected costs of a future event are the costs of that event, if it should happen, divided by the probability that it will happen. Thus, if I offer you $1,000 if a tossed coin turns up heads, the expected cost of my offer is $500. (Suppose I offer you $100,000 if a card drawn at random from a full pack is the ace of spades. Would you prefer that offer to $1,000 tied to the toss of the coin? Anyone interested in maximizing his assets would: the expected cost of that offer to me -- and hence the expected value to you -- is $1,923.) 
 When a catastrophe is really catastrophic -- and Posner, it should be emphasized, isn't writing about ''minor'' disasters like the terrorist attacks of 9/11 -- it can have a significant expected cost, even if the event is extremely improbable. Consider, for example, the risk that a high-energy particle accelerator will produce a ''strange matter'' disaster. The official risk-assessment team for one of these accelerators, at the Brookhaven National Laboratory, offered a series of estimates, one of which puts the annual risk of a disaster at one in five million. That seems a very small risk. But since the disaster would kill six billion people, that estimate gives it an expected cost of 1,200 lives per year. Even if the risk is estimated more conservatively at one in a billion, it has an expected annual cost of six lives. Would we build such an accelerator if we knew that six people would die every year in which it operates? 
 In the third and most difficult chapter of ''Catastrophe,'' Posner explores ways of calculating the costs of catastrophic risks and of possible responses to them. He rebuts the claim that it is not cost-effective to do anything about global warming, an argument that invariably relies on heavily discounting disasters that will not occur for 50 or 100 years. We may wish to invest money to generate wealth rather than spending it to avert gradual global warming, but, as Posner suggests, the victims of the warming are likely to be concentrated in poor countries and will not necessarily benefit from the increased wealth generated by the richer nations. (On the other hand, abrupt, spiraling global warming that flips over into a deep freeze could kill us all, and then increased wealth will not do us any good anyway.) 
 Any economic discussion of the expected cost of catastrophe must put a dollar value on human life. Some will object to this in principle, but unless we can agree on a figure, it will be impossible to decide what expenditure is worth incurring, to build safer roads, say, or to keep minute quantities of toxic chemicals out of our drinking water. Economists working in this area usually investigate how much people are willing to pay to reduce the risk of death -- for example, by buying safety devices for their homes, or preferring to work in a safer occupation for a lower wage than they could get in a high-risk occupation. The reduction in risk is then multiplied by the sum the average person is willing to pay for it to arrive at the value people implicitly place on their lives. Currently, most government departments use a figure of around $5 million, give or take a million or two.
 One problem with this approach is that most of us assess large risks differently from small ones. We may pay a steep price to reduce a risk of one in a thousand to one in ten thousand, but we are not much concerned about reducing a risk of one in a million to one in a billion. Yet a rational person who is interested in continuing to live should be willing to pay something for this reduction in risk. Clearly, these data show that while people appear to be moderately competent at assessing large risks, they are not very good at thinking about small risks. Posner, however, mostly takes the data on their face, and suggests that the value of a human life actually varies in accordance with the degree of risk we are considering -- so that the loss of each human life in a highly improbable catastrophe should be valued only at $50,000 instead of the $5 million that it would be valued at if we were considering a more likely disaster. This is bizarre. The real worth of our lives has nothing to do with the probability of a particular cause of death.
 IN short, Posner really has a much stronger case for saying we should spend more to avert small risks of catastrophe than his own calculations indicate. And the case gets stronger still if we take into account some of the larger ethical issues he rapidly brushes aside, especially the question of how we should view the fact that the extinction of our species would prevent the existence of all future generations of human beings. Barring catastrophe, our species may continue to exist for millions of years, gradually overcoming our problems and achieving a level of happiness, fulfillment and moral virtue -- including concern for the well-being of other species -- that far exceeds anything we have yet known. Arguably, this makes a catastrophe that causes our extinction a much greater tragedy than the ''mere'' death of six billion people. 
 Posner's practical recommendations seem calculated to parcel out irritation to everyone. Physicists will not like the doubts he casts on particle accelerators. Liberals will be alarmed by his support for greater police powers to counteract bioterrorism, including censorship of scientific publications that could help terrorists devise new biological weapons. Conservatives will dislike his support for taxes on carbon dioxide emissions, and will be apoplectic at his proposal that we hand over some of the nation's sovereign powers to an international environmental protection agency to enforce an improved version of the Kyoto Protocol on global warming. 
 As for ordinary readers, they will most likely be annoyed by the book's frequent repetitiveness, particularly in the concluding chapter, and may wonder what the two pages urging severe punishment for computer hackers are doing in a book about catastrophes. (Did Posner lose part of his manuscript to a computer virus?) Still, we would be well advised to set aside such minor discontents and take the message of this book seriously. We ignore it at (a small risk of) our (very great) peril. 


CORRECTION-DATE: January 9, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A book review last Sunday about ''Catastrophe: Risk and Response,'' by Richard A. Posner, referred imprecisely to an arithmetical procedure to derive a figure that cost benefit analysts call the ''expected cost'' of a future event. The expected cost is equal to the cost of the event multiplied by the probability that it will happen not divided by that probability. Thus, as the review correctly calculated, if A offers B a dollar

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lou Beach)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); PHYSICS (89%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (88%); PARTICLE PHYSICS (88%); LITERATURE (76%); WRITERS (76%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (76%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); TERRORISM (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (66%); APPEALS COURTS (57%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (51%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: Peter Singer; Richard A Posner

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



28 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; STRATEGIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: In Great Expectations for Stocks, Danger for Pension Plans

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of CBS MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
PRESIDENT BUSH'S proposal to privatize some aspects of Social Security has focused attention on the unrealistic expectations that many individual investors -- and politicians, for that matter -- have for the stock market over the long term. But several researchers warn that many companies also have inflated expectations for the stocks underpinning their pension plans. To the extent that those companies have to make up for the plans' deficits, a significant miscalculation about stock returns could greatly reduce their earnings per share -- further depressing stock prices. 
 Robert D. Arnott, the chairman of Research Affiliates, a research and asset management firm based in Pasadena, Calif., says the typical corporation is now projecting that the investments in its pension plan will grow at an annualized rate of around 8.5 percent. Because the average pension plan has about two-thirds of its investments in stocks and a third in bonds, this implies a long-term stock return of more than 10 percent a year. Given current expectations about inflation, that works out to a real, or inflation-adjusted, return of around 7 percent. 
 That assumption appears reasonable. According to data compiled by Jeremy J. Siegel, a finance professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, stocks have produced an average annual real return of 6.9 percent since 1802. 
 Still, it is unrealistic to expect stocks at current valuations to produce this high of a return, according to Mr. Arnott and Peter L. Bernstein, president of Peter L. Bernstein Inc., an institutional consulting firm in New York and publisher of Economics and Portfolio Strategy, an investment journal. They say that much of stocks' historical return has come from what they call revaluation -- investor optimism that puts a higher price on a dollar's worth of dividends and earnings, resulting in lower dividend yields and higher price-to-earnings ratios. It is dangerous, they say, for companies to base their projections on revaluation, and here's why:
 If we ignore the effects of revaluation, stocks' returns have just two building blocks: dividend yield and real growth in earnings and dividends. Yet these two factors do not justify much optimism about stocks right now. Since 1871, according to the researchers, earnings and dividends have grown at an inflation-adjusted annual rate of around 1.5 percent. Add the market's current dividend yield, also 1.5 percent, and the expected return is just 3 percent a year, after inflation.
 Could revaluation really turn that 3 percent into 7 percent, the return that companies are assuming? That is very unlikely, according to Mr. Arnott and Mr. Bernstein. The market's dividend yield is already lower than at any point in history except for the late 1990's. And the market's current price-to-earnings ratio is much higher than the historical average. In fact, according to Clifford S. Asness, managing principal at AQR Capital Management in Greenwich, Conn., it is at least 40 percent higher, if the ratio is calculated from trailing earnings.
 Based on history, then, it is more likely than not that the market's future dividend yield will be higher than today's, and that its price-to-earnings ratio will be lower. To the extent this happens, the market's expected return would be even less than 3 percent a year. 
 But isn't Mr. Arnott's and Mr. Bernstein's pessimism simply a consequence of the market's current lofty valuation? Wouldn't an assumption of a 7 percent return after inflation be reasonable under more normal circumstances? Not necessarily, according to Mr. Arnott.
 Consider the possibility that investors will lose optimism, bringing the market's price-to-earnings ratio back down to its historical average and resulting in a doubling of the market's dividend yield, to 3 percent -- still below the historical average. Even then, Mr. Arnott says, it would be unrealistic to expect revaluation to bolster equity returns. That is because it would still be just as likely for future valuations to be lower as it would for them to be higher. So companies should not count on revaluation in projecting their pension plans' returns.
 WITHOUT revaluation, what would a realistic expectation be for stocks' long-term real return after the market's P/E ratio falls back to average levels and its dividend yield doubles? Mr. Arnott says it would be 4.5 percent a year -- 3 percent from dividend yield and 1.5 percent from earnings and dividend growth. Of course, such a long-term return would still be 2.5 percentage points less than companies' current assumptions for their pension plans. 
 How would company pension plans be affected by significantly lower returns? The impact could be huge, Mr. Arnott says. He estimates that if his projected equity returns are accurate, companies with defined-benefit pension plans would collectively have to reduce their earnings by as much as $60 billion a year for the duration of their pension fund liabilities. 
 Needless to say, Mr. Arnott's and Mr. Bernstein's argument may have serious implications for anyone who expects a higher return for their stock investments. Because the effect would be particularly severe for companies with defined-benefit pension plans, Mr. Arnott says we pay close attention to those companies' pension assumptions in gauging their earnings quality.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Behind the Bull Market''Much of the real increase in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index in the 1980's and 90's came from investors ''revaluation'' of stocks -- an increase in what they were willing to pay for the future earnings from those stocks.Components of stocks' average annual inflation-adjusted return during the 1980's and 90'sRevaluationPERCENTAGE POINTS: 7.4Average dividend yieldPERCENTAGE POINTS: 3.3Real growth in earningsPERCENTAGE POINTS: 2.0(Sources by Robert D. Arnott
 Robert J. Schiller [Yale University])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); DIVIDENDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BONDS (89%); STATISTICS (88%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%) Stocks and Bonds; Pensions and Retirement Plans

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (59%) Mark Hulbert

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



29 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; DataBank; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: A Year That Lived Up to Expectations

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The stock market was decent to investors in 2004, as the 9 percent gain for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index pretty much matched the consensus forecast.
 The biggest contributors to the increase were ExxonMobil, General Electric and Johnson & Johnson. 
Based on last year's performance and their weighting in the S.& P. 500 index, they accounted for about 1.6 percentage points of the year's gain, according to Standard & Poor's.
 On the negative side, Pfizer, Intel, Cisco Systems and Merck were a major drag on the index, subtracting about 1.8 percentage points from the year's gain.
 For the last week of the year, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 44.11 points, or 0.4 percent, to 10,783.01. The S.& P. 500 climbed 1.79 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,211.92. The Nasdaq composite index rose 14.82 points, or 0.7 percent, to 2,175.44. For the year, the Dow was up 3.1 percent, and the Nasdaq gained 8.6 percent.
 In the bond market, the 2004 surprise was that longer-term rates slipped slightly, even as the Federal Reserve raised its short-term interest rate benchmark by 1.25 percentage points, to 2.25 percent. The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note ended the year at 4.22 percent, down from 4.25 percent a year earlier. JONATHAN FUERBRINGER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.Amazon.comNNM: AMZNThe online retailer said it set a one-day record of 2.8 million orders during the holiday shopping season. The company said its two top-selling categories of the season were books and electronics.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $44.29WEEK'S CHANGE: +13.77%EST. 04 P/E: 45.66Sharper ImageNNM: SHRPThe retailer of gadgets like foot massagers and nose-hair clippers said sales were not as strong as it had expected. It reduced its earnings outlook for the fourth quarter and the full year.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $18.85WEEK'S CHANGE: -18.54%EST. 04 P/E: 18.53ImmunoGenNNM: IMGNThe biotechnology company licensed its cancer-fighting technology to a Johnson & Johnson subsidiary. ImmunoGen is to receive $1 million up front and future milestone payments that could reach a total of $42.5 million.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $8.84WEEK'S CHANGE: +21.76%EST. 04 P/E: --BoeingNYSE: BAContinental Airlines became the first airline in the United States to order Boeing's newest passenger jet, the 7E7 Dreamliner. China, meanwhile, said it would not approve any new aircraft deliveries for next year.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $51.77WEEK'S CHANGE: -3.29%EST. 04 P/E: 20.10UnivisionNYSE: UVNThe Spanish-language television and radio broadcaster said it would pay about $190 million to buy two leased TV stations in Puerto Rico, where it also owns two radio stations.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $29.27WEEK'S CHANGE: +2.63%EST. 04 P/E: 40.04ProximNNM: PROXThe wireless networking equipment maker lowered its fourth-quarter profit forecasts. The company blamed a slowdown in orders from wireless carriers and pricing pressure from its rival Cisco Systems.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $4.09WEEK'S CHANGE: -19.65%EST. 04 P/E: --Bally Total FitnessNYSE: BFTThe fitness-club chain said customers who dine at Taco Bell, Pizza Hut, KFC, Long John Silver's or A&W during January could get a four-week membership to one of its gyms simply by presenting a receipt.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $4.24WEEK'S CHANGE' +17.45%EST. 04 P/E: --ElanNYSE: ELNThe Irish drug maker said that its painkiller Prialt, the first in a new class of drugs that selectively block the nerve channels that transmit pain signals, had been approved by the Food and Drug Administration.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $27.25WEEK'S CHANGE' +5.29%EST. 04 P/E: --(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (70%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (91%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (72%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); PFIZER INC (57%); INTEL CORP (57%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (72%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (58%); PFZ (LSE) (57%); PFEB (BRU) (57%); PFE (NYSE) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (72%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); PUERTO RICO (59%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



30 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET/New Brunswick, N.J.; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: Transforming a Downtown For More Upscale Shoppers

BYLINE: By JERRY CHESLOW

 BODY:
LATTE sales have perked up in the past six months at the Dunkin' Donuts at the corner of Livingston Avenue and George Street in New Brunswick, N.J. According to the store manager, Phillip Lang, the higher-priced coffee now accounts for 20 percent of the store's approximately 1,000 daily sales. 
 ''It's the new high-end housing that is filling up,'' Mr. Lang explained, referring to the 230-unit River Watch Apartments and the 417-unit Highlands at Plaza Square, two luxury brick housing complexes a couple of blocks east of George, along Route 18, the main gateway to the city. They are among half a dozen new housing complexes and high-rises that, when complete, will bring an estimated 3,000 to 4,000 new residents to the four-block area surrounding the shopping district over a two-year period. 
 City planners and downtown merchants are counting on the newcomers to fuel a renaissance of middle- to high-end retailing in New Brunswick's downtown shopping spine, which begins at Livingston Avenue and stretches northward for four blocks along George to Albany Street, just below the Rutgers University campus. Before race riots in 1967 and the subsequent construction of highway malls in nearby Edison and East Brunswick, the inner city was a regional shopping hub with seven department stores; none of them exist today. 
 Laid out by the British in colonial times and named for King George III, George Street has undergone several redevelopment initiatives since the troubled 1960's and 1970's, yet most of its retailing is of the bargain variety -- 99 cent stores, closeout centers, a five and 10, and low-end clothing shops -- that serves a lower-income population. The 2000 census shows that New Brunswick, where more than 28 percent of the population is Latino immigrants, has a median household income of $36,000, compared with a national average of $42,000.
 Evidence of an earlier redevelopment attempt are the rutted, pink concrete pavers that form the street bed and the unevenly settled brick sidewalks installed in the late 1970's. Over the next four years, after a state project to widen Route 18, which parallels George Street, the pavers and bricks are to be ripped up and replaced by more conventional and durable asphalt and concrete. 
 Almost half of the businesses in the business district are now restaurants. As the Middlesex County seat and home to Rutgers, two major teaching hospitals, the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey and the world headquarters of Johnson & Johnson, the city of 50,000 triples in population during the day. This has fueled a voracious appetite for coffee all day long and for lunches in every budget range, from Burger King to white tablecloth dining. The daytime crush has been supplemented by a dinner crowd that is drawn to the three performing arts theaters on Livingston Avenue. Together, the State Theater, Crossroads and George Street Playhouse sell 400,000 tickets annually. 
 ''Hundreds of lawyers eat in dozens of restaurants in our downtown every day, but they can't buy a decent suit or dress shirt on George Street,'' lamented Glenn Patterson, the city's director of planning and economic development. ''The more people live in town, the more likely they are to stop on George Street for a suit or a tie and that will create a demand for more diverse retail.''
 Mr. Patterson characterized the new residents as mainly young double-income couples without children who are either working in New Brunswick or value its excellent train service. (Both Amtrak and New Jersey Transit trains stop at the New Brunswick station, a block west of George Street.) ''These are people who don't want the suburban picket fence, but would value a more personal downtown shopping experience,'' Mr. Patterson explained.
 Gregg Ritter, who opened George Street Camera in 1979, when much of the downtown was still boarded up, thinks the newcomers are already having an impact on the downtown. He points to a RadioShack, a GNC vitamin store, a Sprint wireless phone store and a Payless Shoes that opened in the last five years in renovated or new spaces on George Street. And, he says, the antiques shops on George are selling tables and armoires for the thousands of dollars, rather than poorer quality items for under $100.
 ''We are finally phoenixing,'' Mr. Ritter declared, explaining that he survived the hard times by diversifying into custom framing and by ensuring that his staff was bilingual to cater to the Hispanic customers. ''We are seeing new higher-end customers with disposable income.'' He added: ''While the new residents are not blowing our doors off yet, they are asking for better products. For the first time, I have $1,300 digital cameras in my window. A year ago, I would not stock any over $500.'' 
 Among the impediments to new retailing categories has been a lack of large store spaces. ''Big chains require several thousand square feet,'' said Christopher Paladino, president of Devco, short for the New Brunswick Development Corporation, a nonprofit organization established by the city and Johnson & Johnson in the 1970's to identify redevelopment opportunities and bring together public and private resources. 
 Currently, Devco is involved in four projects on George Street. The largest is the nine-story Heldrich Plaza, a $110 million endeavor that will include a conference center, a 250-room hotel, 30 luxury condominiums, Rutgers University's Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy, the state-owned John J. Heldrich Center for Workforce Development and 15,000 square feet of ground-level retail space. 
 ''Whenever we are involved in a new project in the downtown,'' Mr. Paladino said, ''we make sure it has a Class A retail component at the base. We want to build the kinds of spaces that will attract national retailers like Restoration Hardware, Banana Republic or the Gap.'' 
 Besides development, Devco also manages the New Brunswick City Market, a nonprofit corporation responsible for the city's Special Improvement District, which includes the George Street retail area. Among its many endeavors to bring people into the downtown were free horse-drawn carriage rides on Friday and Saturday nights for three weeks between Thanksgiving and Christmas.
 Using an assessment of 23 cents per $1,000 of valuation of each commercial building in the district, it designs joint-marketing initiatives, keeps the streets clean and graffiti free and tries to improve the overall appearance of the area through initiatives like an awning program that grants storeowners up to $1,000 each to replace worn or plastic awnings with new canvas ones. 
 As downtown New Brunswick prepares to absorb the new business being generated by the housing units that have either been completed or are in the development stage, its merchants are also anticipating increased sales because of the state approval on Dec. 8 of the designation of nearly one-third of the 5.5-square-mile city, including the downtown business district, as an Urban Enterprise Zone.
 That will allow downtown merchants who sell tangible goods to reduce the rate of state sales tax they collect by half, to just 3 percent, in an effort to encourage shopping. New Brunswick will be able to use the entire 3 percent that is collected for reinvestment in further improvements to the zone.
 ''We have started applying for certification to collect just 3 percent,'' said Mr. Ritter of George Street Camera. ''By February, when the certificates are expected to be granted, we small retailers will get another much-needed shot in the arm.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: PEOPLE MOVERS -- Free carriage rides were offered on weekend nights for three weeks before Christmas. Downtown merchants include Phillip Lang of Dunkin' Donuts, below left, and Gregg Ritter, owner of George Street Camera. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); TRENDS (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); DENTISTRY (71%); BRITISH MONARCHS (69%); CITY LIFE (69%); COUNTIES (68%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (67%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); BUDGETS (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); RIOTS (66%); CENSUS (65%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (62%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (51%); HOSPITALS (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Economic Conditions and Trends; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & DENTISTRY OF NEW JERSEY (61%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (60%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (91%); JNJ (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (91%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (60%)

PERSON: Jerry Cheslow

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Brunswick (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



31 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; NEWS AND ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: The Envelopes, Please

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
WHILE investors were clearly cheered by the fact that stocks finished 2004 in the plus column, it was also obvious that three consecutive years of corporate scandals had finally begun to take their toll on executives.
 In the years after Enron, many chief executives had been operating in a defensive crouch. Last year, however, they switched to offense, yelping about the new securities rules -- way too strict and so time-consuming -- and whining that Eliot Spitzer and his meddlesome investigations could wreck the nation's economy. The United States Chamber of Commerce even sued the Securities and Exchange Commission, hoping to overturn its new rule requiring mutual fund chairmen to be independent.
 Even as the old scandals inched through the court system, new ones cropped up. Aggressive accounting was at the heart of many of them, but a common theme was a need to propel a company's stock price for a bigger and bigger executive payday. 
 So as 2005 dawns, it is again time to grant the Augustus Melmotte Memorial Prizes, named for the charlatan who parades through ''The Way We Live Now,'' the novel by Anthony Trollope. Mr. Melmotte, who would fit just fine into today's business world, is a confidence man who takes London by storm in the late 1800's.
 Unlike many contemporary rogues, however, Mr. Melmotte gets what he deserves when both his scheme and his life collapse in ruins. If he were around today, he'd probably just settle with regulators, neither admit nor deny wrongdoing, charge his legal fees and penalties to his shareholders and start a hedge fund.
 Here are the winners of the years prizes.

THE ROUND WHEEL AWARD -- To Franklin D. Raines, the former chief executive of Fannie Mae, the mortgage finance giant. After years of running roughshod over his company's regulator, the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Mr. Raines and his swaggering colleagues learned that what goes around does indeed come around. The regulator accused Fannie Mae of cooking its books. The Securities and Exchange Commission agreed that it had misrepresented its financial statements, and all the lobbyists in the world couldn't save it from a good, old-fashioned comeuppance.
 Mr. Raines lost his job but gained a munificent pension. Who knows? There may even be a hedge fund in his future.

THE SHOW AND DONT TELL AWARD -- To Michael D. Eisner, the chief executive of Disney, and Michael S. Ovitz, Disney's former president, for providing a much-needed glimpse into the gilded life of corporate executives. Thanks to their ugly employment spat, which wound up in Delaware Chancery Court, the two Mikes opened the door to that rarefied world where stockholders pay for million-dollar office renovations, $9,535 florist bills, $76,413 bills for limousines and rental cars, as well as annual subscriptions to Playboy.
 What a swell place to live, that Magic Kingdom.
 Disney also got into a scrape with the S.E.C. late last year over disclosure failings. It turns out that shareholders were not told that Disney employed three children of directors and that they received annual compensation ranging from $60,000 to more than $150,000. Nor were they informed that a unit that was half-owned by Disney had hired another director's spouse who received compensation of more than $1 million annually, or that Disney had provided office space, secretarial services, a leased car and a driver to another Disney director -- services valued at more than $200,000 annually. In settling with regulators, Disney promised to disclose all such arrangements in the future.

THE THREEPEAT AWARD -- To Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general, for finding corruption in the third financial services industry in as many years. First it was Wall Street research, then the mutual fund industry. In 2004, it was the insurance business's turn. Yes, it seems that those people who love to take your money and hate to pay your claims aren't always on the up and up. Again, Mr. Spitzer found dubious industry practices that had been going on for years. But, as he made clear, that didn't make them right.

THE SILLIEST BILL AWARD -- To Senator Michael B. Enzi, Republican of Wyoming, and Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada who introduced legislation to thwart those who would reform the way stock options are treated in financial statements.
 After years of letting companies get away with the pretense that stock options have no value, accounting rule makers this year will make companies deduct them from their books, as they would any expense. But the Enzi-Reid bill would overrule the rule makers and require companies to deduct only the cost of options granted to the top five executives of a company, not the options handed out to lower-level workers. 
 Rejecting economic reality, as it so often does, the House of Representatives passed the legislation. What's next, a bill decreeing that two plus two only sometimes equals five? 
 THE 'WHY CAN'T WE ALL JUST GET ALONG?' AWARD -- To Harvey L. Pitt, former S.E.C. chairman, who has returned to the private sector and is one of the creators of the Stillwater Directors Summit at Pebble Beach, a corporate governance confab that was scheduled for November but is now being put off until March. 
 In a letter written last May, Mr. Pitt, along with Peter Ueberroth, the former baseball commissioner, and Joel Kurtzman, whose title at PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting firm, is nothing less than global lead partner for thought leadership and innovation, invited independent directors to Pebble Beach, the golf resort in California.
 ''Government has overlegislated, overregulated and overprosecuted,'' Mr. Pitt's letter stated. ''As a result, a new type of director has emerged -- some through appointment, some through 'conversion' with a new sense of mission. In many cases collegiality has been replaced by skepticism and boards have become more risk-averse.'' The gathering, the letter promised, would help directors learn how to keep commitments to their companies while fulfilling commitments to independence. 
 Mr. Pitt said recently that he didn't, in fact, think that government had overstepped. ''The letter may have been inarticulately worded,'' he said, ''but the thought was, you can't sit around and look to the government for solutions.
 ''People have to seize control of the situation and make necessary changes,'' Mr. Pitt added. But those people won't suffer too much. ''Every amenity of the Pebble Beach properties will be brought to bear to ensure a collegial, educational and ultimately rewarding weekend for your directors, your company and your shareholders,'' the letter said. 
 Gee, no mention of the shareholders' tee times?

WILIEST DEAL MAKER OF THE YEAR AWARD -- To Maurice R. Greenberg, chief executive of the American International Group, the insurance behemoth, for wriggling out of a tight spot with regulators recently. After finding that A.I.G. had sold products that allowed two companies to hide their financial problems from shareholders, the S.E.C. wanted to know how many more such deals A.I.G. had struck. So before regulators would settle the case, they forced the company to hire an outside expert to sift through its books and look for other earnings enhancement deals.
 Mr. Greenberg may have the last laugh, however. The S.E.C. agreed to limit the period of the expert's search to 2000 through 2004, years when earnings-smoothing products were probably rare. During that period, demand for plain-vanilla insurance coverage was growing, and companies like A.I.G. did not need to resort to sales of such exotic products. An investigator would probably find far more interesting deals from 1997 to 2000, insurance experts say.

THE FOOL ME TWICE AWARD -- To investors who chased momentum stocks into the heavens last year as if they'd never heard of the crash of 2000. Adding to the 1999 feel of things, penny stocks soared, funky pro forma figures resurfaced and formerly disgraced Internet analysts dusted off their pompoms. All we need now is for a Wall Street strategist to say, ''It's different this time.''
 Or maybe one already has.


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Ismael Roldan) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); SCANDALS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BONDS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (75%); HEDGE FUNDS (74%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (66%) Stocks and Bonds; Two Thousand Four (Year); Insurance; Awards, Decorations and Honors; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (66%); WALT DISNEY CO (62%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%) Fannie Mae; Disney, Walt, Co

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (66%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (66%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (62%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (62%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (62%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (62%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: FRANK RAINES (89%); ELIOT SPITZER (76%) Gretchen Morgenson; Franklin D Raines; Michael D Eisner; Michael S Ovitz; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



32 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Board Game

BYLINE: By Bryan Burrough. 
Bryan Burrough, a special correspondent at Vanity Fair, is author of ''Public Enemies: America's Greatest Crime Wave and the Birth of the FBI, 1933-34.''

 BODY:

WRONG WAY
The Fall of Conrad Black.
By Jacquie McNish and Sinclair Stewart.
Illustrated. 320 pp. The Overlook Press. $29.95.

LORD BLACK
The Biography.
By George Tombs.
Illustrated. 336 pp. BT Publishing. $29.95.
 IS it just me, or does every Western country eventually produce someone like Conrad Black, the homegrown newspaper baron who flies free of his parochial origins, snaps up glossy properties in New York and London and is briefly crowned a media-magnate ''It Girl'' before crashing back to earth? Until a shareholder scandal led to his fall last year, Black was the Canadian protagonist of this story, a Rupert Murdoch wannabe who made waves in Chicago, where he owned The Sun-Times; in New York, where he invested in The Sun and flirted with The Daily News; in London, where he controlled The Daily Telegraph; and in Israel, where he owned The Jerusalem Post.
 Unfortunately, even the most ribald accounts of his downfall -- he was ousted from the board of his flagship Hollinger International last January -- can't obscure the sense that Black's is a humdrum scandal. There are no ice statues urinating vodka, a la Tyco; no scent of insider trading a la Michael Milken or Martha Stewart; no legions of unemployed Sun Belters, a la Enron. Reading newspaper accounts at the time, you got the sense you'd already seen this movie, and it was more entertaining the first time. Black seemed just one more corporate Garfield who overindulged, got called on it and was exiled to his Palm Beach mansion amid the usual flurry of lawsuits. What do you expect from Canada? Even its scandals are boring.
 These days, however, every scandal, no matter how drab, generates a book or two. Black's fall has already produced several, two of which, ''Lord Black: The Biography,'' by George Tombs, and ''Wrong Way: The Fall of Conrad Black,'' by Jacquie McNish and Sinclair Stewart, have now plopped onto American shelves. If you simply must know more, ''Wrong Way'' is the way to go. McNish, long one of Canada's best business writers, and her Toronto Globe & Mail colleague Stewart, have produced a nimble account of Black's final years that does everything the Tombs book doesn't. That is, McNish and Stewart tell the inside story of how Black's own shareholders revolted against his imperial management and ousted him from the company he founded.
 If Hollinger International were a casino, someone would be asking hard questions about skimming. Black controlled Hollinger through a shell company, and had Hollinger pay this shell tens of millions in ''management fees'' on top of the salaries and bonuses Black and his cronies got anyway -- not to mention the Bentleys, Manhattan apartments and sundry other perks. For years the hazy outline of this scheme was buried in bond prospectuses. The facts began to emerge only when one investment company brought in Laura Jereski, a former Wall Street Journal reporter, to examine the small print. 
 What distinguishes this scandal is Black's jaw-dropping sense of entitlement. By almost every account, he thought of shareholders as sharecroppers, bugs on his corporate windshield. He ran Hollinger as a personal fief, doling out favors to directors while accumulating the usual clutch of mansions, private jets and billionaire baubles. He intimidated inquiring journalists with lawsuits; when the Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien moved to block his entrance into the British House of Lords, the combative Black sued him, too. 
 Confronted by Jereski's nettlesome letters and e-mails, Black treated her like a rebellious serf. An internal e-mail he drafted to rebut her was entitled ''Epidemic of shareholder idiocy.'' In McNish and Stewart's professional hands, Black comes off as the emperor who dismissed the peasants' complaints until they stormed through the palace gates and strung him up. It's an engaging tale, well told.
 The same cannot be said for ''Lord Black,'' which purports to tell Black's life story. Tombs, a Montreal journalist and television producer, has managed that rare trifecta of truly bad biography, a book about a scandal-ridden billionaire that barely delves into the scandal itself, utterly fails to take us inside the businesses in question and that instead cobbles together newspaper clippings and interviews with those who know Black least. Tombs began his research before the scandal broke, but that's no excuse; it's as if he had written a book about the Titanic that relegates that tiresome bit about the iceberg to the introduction and epilogue. Terrifyingly earnest and a tad in awe of his subject, Tombs has written a civil, polite and circumspect book. You know. Canadian.
 One longs for a red-meat approach. Black's biographical arc, after all, is a cut above that of many minor Murdochs. A rebellious rich kid from Toronto thrown out of prep school for selling pilfered exam questions, he relocated to rural Quebec and began buying community newspapers while living in his wealthy business partner's spartan boathouse. His first wife, reportedly obsessed with the Catholic church, left him for a (defrocked) priest. His second wife, Barbara Amiel, a conservative columnist and a fixture in magazines like Vogue and Town and Country, comes off as a chilling cross between Ann Coulter and Imelda Marcos. Himself a writer and sometime columnist of stunningly baroque prose -- he published a biography of Franklin Roosevelt in 2003 -- Black reeks of empowerment, the kind of wealthy boy who was born on third base and thought he held the Major League record for triples.
 Maybe Tombs is just too polite to linger in the darker corners. Backgrounding Black's father, a man who after quitting the business world spent ''the last 18 years of his life managing his portfolio, drinking heavily and staying up late at night, reading and brooding,'' Tombs gives us a single page, with a sensible quote from a man identified as ''Conrad's first cousin (once removed)'' and an ambiguous one from Black's autobiography, ''A Life in Progress.'' The promising story of how Black took control of his first large company by hoodwinking a pair of grieving widows is largely sourced to a television documentary.
 The business world is depressingly full of billionaires who equate net worth with wisdom. Always a political animal, Black used his newspapers as a platform to spread his conservative political views. But ''Lord Black'' treats its subject as a political figure as much as a corporate executive, an error compounded by the absence of any real evidence that Black's views influenced anyone but his gardeners. Black is a businessman mired in a business scandal, yet Tombs has little more to say about how he managed, or rather mismanaged, his businesses than one might read on the business wires. Even a battalion of ice statues couldn't make me want to read more.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 23, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a review on Jan. 2 about ''Lord Black: The Biography,'' about the entrepreneur Conrad Black, misstated the background of the book's author, George Tombs. While he has worked in television and has been a producer for radio, he has never been a television producer.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Lord Black (center) in October 2001
he is being introduced to the House of Lords by Lady Thatcher, the former prime minister, and Lord Carrington. (Photograph by Gary Lee/from ''Wrong Way: The Fall of Conrad Black'')
 Black in 1978, the year he gained control of Argus Corp. (Photograph by Tibor Kolley/The Globe and Mail/from ''Wrong Way: The Fall of Conrad Black'')

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); INSIDER TRADING (75%); BOARD GAMES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (59%); SHELL CORPORATIONS (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (56%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (79%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (55%); MICHAEL MILKEN (55%) Bryan Burrough; Conrad M Black; Jacquie McNish; Sinclair Stewart; George Tombs

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (90%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



33 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: A Wish for a Campaign Promise

 BODY:
New Yorkers wishing for a civilized political climate in this mayoral election year have every reason to expect something better in 2005 -- it would be difficult to imagine a nastier campaign than the last one, when even the somber shadow of Sept. 11 could not stave off weeks of inflammatory racial charges and countercharges. 
 Let's hope that in this new year all the mayoral hopefuls are resolving to take a high road, particularly when it comes to any discussion of race.
 That would at least be a start to exorcising the ghost of the election past, when supporters of Fernando Ferrer, the former Bronx borough president, and Mark Green, then the public advocate, helped to implode their party's chances by using race and ethnicity as a cudgel. Mr. Green won the primary, but residual hard feelings caused a rift with a large number of blacks and Hispanics. The beneficiary and ultimate winner was the Republican candidate, Michael R. Bloomberg. 
 As befits a New York election, the field of potential mayoral candidates is diverse. Mr. Ferrer, who is Puerto Rican, will try a third time to become the city's first Hispanic mayor. While Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. has decided to run for re-election rather than take on Mr. Bloomberg, two other African-American elected officials are planning to try for the Democratic nomination: C. Virginia Fields, the Manhattan borough president, and Councilman Charles Barron of Brooklyn. Representative Anthony D. Weiner, whose district includes Brooklyn and Queens, and Gifford Miller, the city council speaker -- both white -- are all but formally announced candidates.
 Mr. Bloomberg was at best a mediocre candidate last time, distinguished mainly by the vast amount he spent from his personal fortune. But his image seemed blessedly bland compared with the coarseness that came to surround the Ferrer and Green campaigns -- much of it the work of the candidates' supporters, like those who distributed ugly anti-Ferrer fliers in Brooklyn and linked the candidate to the Rev. Al Sharpton. 
 It is distressing that there have already been ethnically charged words in this campaign. Ruben Diaz Jr., an assemblyman from the Bronx, leaped on Mr. Bloomberg after his office raised questions about the recent hiring of a lobbyist -- a Latina with ties to Mr. Ferrer -- by opponents of his plan to build a stadium on the West Side. The charge of ethnic insensitivity seems silly, considering that the mayor doesn't like anyone to oppose his pet project, which promises to be a major campaign issue that could especially help Mr. Ferrer. Still, the reaction Mr. Bloomberg got showed that bitterness is still running on fumes now four years old. All candidates need to be attuned to that fact, and the offended parties need to move past their grudges. 
 Urging candidates not to play the race card does not, of course, mean that the campaign should steer clear of the issues in which race is a critical factor -- the disproportionate unemployment rate of minorities is one example. But the potential candidates, all seasoned politicians, know -- or should know -- how to talk about serious subjects without cynically using them to inflame racial antagonism. 
 New York's problems are mainly color blind, though they always fall hardest on the predominantly black and Latino poor. For another year, New York faces a multibillion-dollar budget shortfall. Teachers, firefighters and police officers still have no contracts. There are financial crises in public transportation and in public hospitals. Affordable housing is in critically short supply, and the number of homeless people is at a record high. Schools need a plan to get more teachers and classroom space. 
 The only criterion for choosing the next mayor is which man or women can best tackle the long list of weighty issues. New Yorkers should reject any candidate who tries to tell them otherwise.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); ETHNICITY (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Editorials

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%); AL SHARPTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



34 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1520 words

HEADLINE: In Plan to Reduce Deficit by Half, Bush Administration Turns to Old Projections

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 1 

 BODY:
To show that President Bush can fulfill his campaign promise to cut the deficit in half by 2009, White House officials are preparing a budget that will assume a significant jump in revenues and omit the cost of major initiatives like overhauling Social Security.
 To make Mr. Bush's goal easier to reach, administration officials have decided to measure their progress against a $521 billion deficit they predicted last February rather than last year's actual shortfall of $413 billion.
 By starting with the outdated projection, Mr. Bush can say he has already reduced the shortfall by about $100 billion and claim victory if the deficit falls to just $260 billion. 
 But White House budget planners are not stopping there. Administration officials are also invoking optimistic assumptions about rising tax revenue while excluding costs for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan as well as trillions of dollars in costs that lie just outside Mr. Bush's five-year budget window.
 The five-year plan, due in February, is likely to reaffirm previous predictions of a $217 billion surge in tax revenues in 2005, the biggest one-year jump on record, and almost $800 billion a year by 2009.
 ''We still believe we will see new economic growth, with revenues increasing as a share of G.D.P.,'' said Chad Kolton, a spokesman for the White House Office of Management and Budget, referring to the gross domestic product. ''I think our numbers are very realistic because they are consistent with the best estimates of Wall Street and of the Congressional Budget Office.''
 As in past years, the budget will exclude costs for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, which could reach $100 billion in 2005 and are likely to remain high for years to come. The budget is also expected to exclude Mr. Bush's goal to replace Social Security in part with a system of private savings accounts, even though administration officials concede that such a plan could require the government to borrow $2 trillion over the next decade or two. 
 Among the costs that are expected in the five years after 2009 are nearly $1 trillion to make Mr. Bush's tax cuts permanent, nearly $500 billion for the new Medicare prescription drug program and at least $400 billion to address widely acknowledged problems with the so-called alternative minimum tax.
 Many analysts are dubious about the long-term plan. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has estimated that deficits will remain well above $300 billion if Mr. Bush's tax cuts are made permanent and if Iraq war costs taper off gradually. On Wall Street, analysts at Goldman Sachs predict that budget deficits will total about $5 trillion over the next 10 years.
 ''I've been watching this more than 30 years, and I have never seen anything quite this egregious,'' said Stanley Collender, a longtime author on budget issues and a senior vice president at Financial Dynamics, a communications firm in Washington.
 ''They are cutting the deficit from a number they never believed in the beginning,'' Mr. Collender said, referring to the decision to measure progress against the unrealized $521 billion deficit projection. ''What if they had forecast that the deficit would be $800 billion last year? Would they take credit for having cut it by half?''
 White House officials are making several budgeting decisions that make their tax revenues look higher and their spending look lower than many analysts think is realistic.
 The first is to exclude a wide range of future costs for proposals, like those for military operations in Iraq, that White House officials say are impossible to predict.
 Mr. Bush has consistently refused to include Iraq costs in his annual budget request, seeking money through a supplemental appropriations bill that lies outside the official budget. The White House asked for and received $87 billion for the last fiscal year, as well as another $25 billion to cover the first few months of the 2005 fiscal year. The administration is expecting to ask for as much as $80 billion more in the next few months, but it will not include any cost estimates in Mr. Bush's budget for the 2006 fiscal year.
 ''My own preference is to wait until the last possible moment, in order to have the best idea of how much will be needed,'' said Joshua B. Bolten, director of the Office of Management and Budget, in a recent meeting with reporters.
 Administration officials are omitting a second big group of costs for goals Mr. Bush has identified but not formally proposed.
 By far the biggest of these is his plan to privatize Social Security in part and let people divert some of their payroll taxes to private accounts.
 Republican and Democratic analysts alike say the proposal would require the government to incur ''transition costs'' of $2 trillion or more over the next decade or two. That is because payroll tax revenue would immediately plunge, while benefits owed to retirees would decline only gradually.
 Administration officials say any such transition costs should be treated separately from the regular budget, because they would eventually be recouped as benefits decline sharply over the next 75 years.
 But the issue poses a ticklish problem for the administration, because it is already using surplus revenues in the Social Security trust fund to cover part of the annual budget deficit. The Social Security and Medicare trust funds took in about $146 billion more than they paid out in benefits in the last fiscal year, which reduced the government's overall deficit to $413 billion from about $560 billion.
 One idea to prevent private savings accounts from causing an abrupt rise in annual deficits is to treat deposits into private savings accounts as a ''transfer'' within the government. Another idea is to include all the borrowing for transition costs in an account that would be separate from the government's operating budget.
 White House officials say it is reasonable to treat the expected transition costs separately, because they will eventually be repaid as the government's obligation to pay benefits declines sharply after 30 or 40 years.
 ''These aren't costs, they are savings,'' said Scott McClellan, Mr. Bush's spokesman, at a recent news conference.
 Another major cost that will be excluded from Mr. Bush's budget stems from the alternative minimum tax, a parallel income tax that was originally created to prevent wealthy taxpayers from taking too much advantage of sophisticated tax breaks.
 Because the alternative minimum tax is not indexed for inflation, it will engulf more than 20 million additional families by 2009 -- a prospect that Republicans and Democrats alike have pledged to prevent.
 But repealing the tax would reduce projected tax revenues by $87 billion in 2009 alone and more than $500 billion by the end of 2014.
 Almost none of that expense is expected to be in Mr. Bush's coming budget. Mr. Bolten and other officials now suggest they will include a proposal for the alternative minimum tax in Mr. Bush's broader plan to overhaul the tax code.
 But that plan will not be ready until late in 2005 and possibly not until 2006.
 Thus far, Mr. Bush's plan to reduce the deficit has heavily rested on the assumption that tax revenues will rise as economic growth accelerates.
 In a twist, the White House budget for last year significantly underestimated tax revenue for 2004. Officials predicted that tax revenues would inch up only $16 billion, when they actually rose 5.5 percent, or about $100 billion.
 Administration officials are expected to project a record surge of at least $200 billion for 2005. That would be an increase of more than 10 percent, twice as big as the jump in 2004, and it would be followed by additional big jumps for the next five years.
 White House officials declined to spell out their revenue forecasts. But their forecast last summer showed a jump of more than $200 billion, and White House officials say they continue to expect tax revenues will climb faster than the economy for the next few years. The underlying forecast for economic growth is essentially unchanged.
 But analysts say the administration expectations may prove optimistic. 
 Even though the economy grew at a rapid pace of 4 percent in 2004, and corporate profits soared at double-digit rates, federal tax revenues were only 16.2 percent of the gross domestic product last year, the lowest level since the early 1950's. Despite a $100 billion increase in 2004, tax revenues were still lower then than they were when Mr. Bush took office in 2001.
 White House officials say they expect that trend to reverse sharply, with tax revenues to climb back to almost 18 percent of gross domestic product by 2009. If the administration adheres to its earlier forecasts, that would translate to a surge in tax revenues to more than $2.7 trillion in five years, from $1.87 trillion. 
 If that proves accurate, Mr. Bush will have a good chance of cutting his budget deficit in half. But that could still leave big and rising costs for Medicare and tax cuts that will sink in only after he has left office. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); TAX LAW (88%); TAX RELIEF (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MEDICARE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); TERRORISM (59%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%) United States; Afghanistan; Iraq; United States

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



35 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1689 words

HEADLINE: Washington's New Year War Cry: Party On!

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
ON the fourth day 'til Christmas, the day that news of the slaughter at the mess tent in Mosul slammed into the evening news, CBS had scheduled a special treat. That evening brought the annual broadcast of ''The Kennedy Center Honors,'' the carefree variety show in which Washington's top dogs mingle with visitors from that mysterious land known as the Arts and do a passing (if fashion-challenged) imitation of revelers at the Oscars. This year, like any other, the show was handing out medals to those representing ''the very best in American culture,'' as exemplified by honorees like Australia's Dame Joan Sutherland and Britain's Sir Elton John. Festive bipartisanship reigned. Though Sir Elton had said just three weeks earlier that ''Bush and this administration are the worst thing that has ever happened to America,'' he and his boyfriend joined the president and Mrs. Bush in their box. John Kerry held forth in an orchestra seat below. 
 ''The Kennedy Center Honors'' is no ratings powerhouse; this year more adults under 50 elected to watch ''The Real Gilligan's Island'' on cable instead. But I tuned in, curious to see how this gathering of the capital's finest might be affected by the war. The honors had actually been staged and taped earlier in the month, on Dec. 5. That day the morning newspapers told of more deadly strikes by suicide bombers in Mosul and Baghdad, killing at least 26 Iraqi security officers, including 8 in a police station near the capital's protected Green Zone. There were also reports of at least four American casualties in other firefights.
 But if anyone at the Kennedy Center so much as acknowledged this reality unfolding beyond the opera house, it was not to be found in the show presented on television. The only wars evoked were those scored by another honoree, John Williams, whose soundtrack music for ''Saving Private Ryan'' and ''Star Wars'' wasmerrily belted out by a military band. (Our delicate sensibilities were spared the sight of an actual ''Private Ryan'' battle scene, however, lest the broadcast risk being shut down for ''indecency.'') The razzle-dazzle Hollywood martial music, the what-me-worry Washington establishment, the glow of money and red plush: everything about the tableau reeked of the disconnect between the war in Iraq and the comfort of all of us at home, starting with those in government who had conceived, planned, rubber-stamped and managed our excellent adventure in spreading democracy. 
 Ordinary people beyond Washington, red and blue Americans alike, are feeling that disconnect more and more. On the same day that CBS broadcast the Kennedy Center special, an ABC News/Washington Post poll found that 70 percent of Americans believed that any gains in Iraq had come at the cost of ''unacceptable'' losses in casualties and that 56 percent believed the war wasn't ''worth fighting'' -- up 8 percent since the summer. In other words, most Americans believe that our troops are dying for no good reason, even as a similar majority (58 percent) believes, contradictorily enough, that we should keep them in Iraq. 
 So the soldiers soldier on, and we party on. As James Dao wrote in The New York Times, ''support our troops'' became a verbal touchstone in 2004, yet ''only for a minuscule portion of the populace, mainly those with loved ones overseas, does it have anything to do with sacrifice.'' Quite the contrary: we have our tax cuts, and a president who promises to make them permanent. Such is the disconnect between the country and the war that there is no national outrage when the president awards the Medal of Freedom to the clowns who undermined the troops by bungling intelligence (George Tenet) and Iraqi support (Paul Bremer). Such is the disconnect that Washington and the news media react with slack-jawed shock when one of those good soldiers we support so much speaks up at a town hall meeting in Kuwait and asks the secretary of defense why vehicles that take him and his brothers into battle lack proper armor.
 Much has been made of this incident, yet it hardly constituted big news. It's no secret to anyone, including Donald Rumsfeld, that the troops have often been undersupplied. Dana Priest of The Washington Post heard soldiers asking the defense secretary ''similar questions about their body armor'' when traveling with him a year ago. In October, 23 members of an Army Reserve unit disobeyed a direct order to deliver fuel, partly because they decided that the vulnerability of their trucks made the journey tantamount to a suicide mission. As far back as last spring, Stars and Stripes was reporting that desperate troops were using sandbags as makeshift vehicle armor. Even now, reports The Los Angeles Times, National Guard soldiers are saying they have been shipped to war from Fort Bliss with ''chronic illnesses, broken guns and trucks with blown transmissions.'' 
 When Mr. Rumsfeld told Specialist Thomas Wilson in Kuwait that the only reason the troops lacked armor was ''a matter of production and capability,'' he was lying. The manufacturers that supply the armor were quick to respond that they had been telling the Pentagon for months that they could increase production, in the case of one company (ArmorWorks in Arizona) by as much as 100 percent. But that news was quickly drowned out by cable and talk radio arguments over whether Mr. Wilson should or should not have consulted with an embedded reporter about the phrasing of his question. Soon Mr. Rumsfeld was off to Iraq for a P.R. tour (message: I care) in which he used troops as photo-op accessories and thanked a soldier for asking a softball question ''not planted by the media.'' Washington could go back to worrying about more pressing domestic problems, like how to cook the books so that Social Security can be fixed cost-free. 
 The truth is that for all the lip service paid to supporting the troops, out of sight is often out of mind. Even the minority that remains gung-ho about the war in Iraq is quick to blame the grunts for anything that goes wrong. Specialist Wilson, Rush Limbaugh said, was guilty of ''near insubordination'' for his question in Kuwait; the poor defense secretary ''was set up,'' whined The New York Post. The same crowd tells us that a few low-level guards are solely responsible for the criminal abuse of prisoners at Abu Ghraib and in Guantanamo Bay, not any policy-setting higher-ups who may be sitting in that audience at Kennedy Center. President Bush even tried to pass the buck for his premature aircraft carrier victory jig to the troops, telling the press months later that ''the 'Mission Accomplished' sign, of course, was put up by the members of the U.S.S. Abraham Lincoln, saying that their mission was accomplished.'' Of course.
 Back then, the Pentagon projected that our military occupation of Iraq would end in December 2004. But two days after appearing in the box at the Kennedy Center Opera House, the president donned a snappy muted green ''commander in chief'' jacket -- a casual Friday version of the full ''Top Gun'' costume he'd worn on the Lincoln -- to address marines at Camp Pendleton in California who were going to war, not coming home. (Slate reported this week that ''nearly one-quarter of U.S. combat dead in 2004 were stationed in Camp Pendleton.'') It was the anniversary of Pearl Harbor, and Mr. Bush drew the expected analogy: ''Just as we defeated the threats of fascism and imperial communism in the 20th century, we will defeat the threat of global terrorism.'' But three years into it, can we win a war that most of the country senses has gone astray in Iraq and that the party in power regards as a lower priority than lower taxes?
 The ethos could hardly have been more different during the World War II so frequently invoked by Mr. Bush. As David Brinkley recounted in his 1988 history, ''Washington Goes to War,'' the Roosevelt administration's first big push ''was a tremendous voluntary program to reduce the deficit, encourage saving, trim spending and thus curb inflation -- the sale of war bonds.'' Though bonds would not in the end pay for the war -- that would require the sacrifice of paying taxes -- F.D.R. believed that his campaign ''would give the public a sense of involvement in a war being fought thousands of miles away, a war so distant many Americans had difficulty at times remembering it was there at all.'' Gen. George Marshall, the Army's chief of staff, took it on himself to write notes by hand to the family of each man killed in battle until the volume forced the use of Western Union telegrams.
 Well, Mr. Rumsfeld has sworn he'll stop delegating condolence letters to his Autopen. But otherwise the contrast between the Washington that won World War II and the Washington fighting a war in Iraq is so striking it can even be found in the cultural lineage of the Kennedy Center show. That show's producer, as it happens, is George Stevens Jr., the son of the great Hollywood filmmaker George Stevens. In his day, the elder Stevens created his own wartime Washington entertainment: a glorious 1943 romantic comedy, ''The More the Merrier'' (just out on DVD), set in the newly mobilized capital, that, though fiction, is in itself a striking document of the difference between then and now. While it portrays a patriotic Washington as frivolously beset by party animals, bureaucrats and lobbyists as today's, there's an underlying ethos of shared sacrifice, literally down to the living arrangements necessitated by a housing shortage. It might as well be a different civilization. 
 Washington's next celebration will be the inauguration. Roosevelt decreed that the usual gaiety be set aside at his wartime inaugural in January 1945. There will be no such restraint in the $40 million, four-day extravaganza planned this time, with its top ticket package priced at $250,000. The official theme of the show is ''Celebrating Freedom, Honoring Service.'' That's no guarantee that the troops in Iraq will get armor, but Washington will, at least, give home-front military personnel free admission to one of the nine inaugural balls and let them eat cake.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The war at home: the presidential box at the Kennedy Center honors, Dec. 5, 2004. (Photo by Brendan Smialowski/Agence France-Press, Getty Images)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); MUSIC (87%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%); IRAQ WAR (70%); POLITICS (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (64%); POLICE FORCES (64%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Television; Abc News/washington Post Poll; Public Opinion; United States Politics and Government; Inaugurations

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (91%)

PERSON: ELTON JOHN (90%); FRANK RICH (54%) Frank Rich

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (68%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); AUSTRALIA (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



36 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1611 words

HEADLINE: The Meek Shall Inherit The Bill

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
GIVE President Bush credit for this much: his agenda for the year will force a national debate about the vexing financial problems that loom in the decades ahead.
 In calling for an overhaul of Social Security, which faces a huge potential shortfall, Mr. Bush has chosen to address an issue that many politicians would like to postpone discussing for as long as possible.
 Arguably, his agenda for revamping the income tax is also an effort to think ahead. Though he has yet to announce a specific plan, White House officials have made it clear their goal is a shift toward a system that essentially taxes consumption -- the money people spend -- and not the money they save or invest. 
 In principle, a consumption tax could be forward-looking. Administration officials argue that lower taxes on saving and investment would prompt Americans to increase savings from today's abysmally low level -- barely above zero -- and would provide more capital to finance growth.
 But on closer inspection, much of the agenda follows a familiar path: borrowing today and leaving the bills for future generations to pay.
 Start with Social Security. Mr. Bush regularly warns that the system will come up short in future decades, because the total amount paid out in benefits will soar as baby boomers reach retirement age. But the proposed solution often cited by White House officials would put none of the burden on today's taxpayers or retirees. Instead, it would fall on people who retire 40 or 50 or 60 years from now.
 Mr. Bush has vowed to protect benefits for anybody at or near retirement; in most proposals that would be anyone 55 or older. He would also let people divert some of their current payroll taxes into private retirement accounts, enhancing his goal of an ''ownership society.'' But most analysts agree that private accounts would do little to reduce the projected Social Security shortfall, which the government estimates at $3.7 trillion over the next 75 years.
 The government would lose trillions over the first few decades, as people diverted payroll taxes to their private accounts, and it would likely have to borrow up to $2 trillion to keep paying benefits to existing retirees. Supporters say the government would eventually recoup the transition costs, because Social Security benefits would decline in proportion to the payroll taxes that people put into their private accounts. 
 The burden on future generations would arise from the second and less-discussed component of most proposals: a steep reduction in future benefits, well beyond the amount being put into private accounts. The most frequently posited way to pare future benefits is to change the formula for calculating them. Instead of indexing a person's initial benefit amount to the growth in wages, the formula would index benefits just to consumer prices. 
 THAT sounds tame, but it could be profound. According to the Congressional Budget Office, a median-income worker who retires today can expect Social Security benefits of about $26,000 a year, equal to about 42 percent of his or her preretirement income. If the benefit were indexed to prices rather than wages, the Congressional Budget Office says, a person retiring in 2065 would get only 21.7 percent of his or her preretirement income -- even including benefits expected from private accounts. In today's dollars, that would be about $14,000 a year.
 ''It's the same old game,'' said Laurence J. Kotlikoff, an economist at Boston University who has closely examined how financial burdens are shifted from one generation to another. ''Every generation of old people tries to put the burden on the next generation of older people. That's what they always do, and that's what they're doing now.''
 That raises basic questions of fairness, but also of practicality. The risk is that people will glide along for the next several decades, but then rebel when growing numbers of them experience a huge drop in their standard of living as soon as they retire. They might then use their political power to reverse the cuts.
 THE next major component of Mr. Bush's economic agenda is tax reform. Administration officials say that they have no specific plan yet, and that they will wait to receive a recommendation from a bipartisan advisory panel sometime this year. 
 But White House officials have made it clear that they favor some kind of consumption tax. Republicans who are advising the administration said they expected Mr. Bush to propose a series of changes that would essentially reduce the tax rate on savings, investment and most corporate profits. That would effectively change the income tax into more of a consumption tax. 
 A central part of the plan is likely to be a significant expansion of tax-advantaged savings accounts. The Treasury Department has already proposed, two years in a row, the creation of lifetime savings accounts and retirement savings accounts that would be similar to today's individual retirement accounts and 401(k) plans. 
 Individuals would be able to put as much as $15,000 a year into such accounts, and families could save as much as $30,000. The contributions would be taxable, but the interest or capital gains would be tax free, and people could withdraw money from their lifetime accounts whenever they wanted, rather than being required to wait until retirement.
 Many administration officials would also eliminate the top two tax rates for high-income earners and perhaps eliminate all taxes on dividend income. Mr. Bush proposed eliminating taxes on dividends in 2003, but was forced to compromise and accept only a 50 percent cut.
 Administration officials say that these and other measures would stimulate savings, which are crucial to increasing long-term growth. N.Gregory Mankiw, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, says tax cuts on capital are much less costly than they appear.
 But other analysts are skeptical. C.Eugene Steuerle, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute and an architect of President Ronald Reagan's tax overhaul in 1986, noted that personal savings plunged during the last four years even though tax subsidies for retirement accounts increased modestly over the same period. The reason, he theorized, is that many people do not use tax-advantaged accounts to save more money. Instead, they simply move their existing savings into new tax-advantaged accounts when the opportunity arises.
 Excluding investment income from taxation could also aggravate future government deficits. One allure of expanded lifetime savings accounts is that they would cost the government very little in lost tax revenue for the first decade or two, because people would initially need to accumulate investment profits in their accounts. But after 20 or 25 years, long after Mr. Bush has left office, the forgone taxes could total tens of billions of dollars a year.
 Perhaps the biggest issue for future generations is the third big item on Mr. Bush's economic agenda: fiscal discipline and deficit reduction. Federal debt ballooned by about $1.8 trillion during his first term, as the federal budget swung from a surplus of $127 billion in 2001 to a record deficit of $413 billion in 2004.
 Mr. Bush has vowed to reduce the deficit by half by 2009, but many analysts predict that the federal debt will swell by at least an additional $2 trillion and possibly by $4 trillion over the next decade. Among the long list of looming bills are these:
 Nearly $1 trillion over the next 10 years to make Mr. Bush's tax cuts permanent.
 More than $500 billion to prevent an increase in the alternative minimum tax, which was enacted in 1969 to ensure that the wealthy could not avoid paying income taxes by taking large deductions.
 More than $500 billion for the new Medicare prescription drug program, which takes full effect in 2006. 
 As much as $100 billion for war costs in Iraq in 2005, and additional costs likely in the future.
 White House officials are confident that they can still halve the deficit by 2009, but that is not much of a goal because many of Mr. Bush's most expensive ideas -- Medicare expansion, the extension of tax cuts and his plans for Social Security -- will not hit the bottom line until after 2009.
 To reduce the deficit, administration officials are essentially freezing spending for domestic discretionary programs for the second year in a row. After allowing for inflation and rising salaries, that means real cuts for everything from housing assistance to airport construction.
 BUT those programs account for only about 17 percent of the $2.3 trillion federal budget. About two-thirds of the budget is in ''mandatory'' spending -- either entitlement programs like Social Security and Medicare, which Mr. Bush is not cutting -- or unavoidable obligations like interest on the federal debt. An additional 15 percent of the budget goes to military and domestic security, which Mr. Bush wants to increase.
 The president is counting on faster economic growth to generate higher tax revenue, and he has already received some help in that area: tax revenues jumped by about $100 billion, or 5.5 percent, last year. 
 But many major tax cuts do not take effect until later in the decade. These include elimination of inheritance taxes in 2010, and about $40 billion of tax cuts for multinational corporations that were part of a tax bill that Congress passed in the fall.
 Taken together, the upshot is a big government on low taxes. Federal responsibilities under Mr. Bush are bigger and more global than ever. But tax revenues account for a smaller share of the gross domestic product -- 16.2 percent last year -- than at any time since the early 1950's.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 9, 2005

 CORRECTION:
The Economic View column last Sunday, about the Bush administration's economic proposals, misstated a projection by the Congressional Budget Office about Social Security benefits. Under current law, a median-income worker who retires today can expect an annual benefit of $14,900, not $26,000.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Debt Explosion''The gross federal debt, which includes projected shortfalls in Social Security and Medicare, is projected to double in 10 years.Graph tracks projected gross federal debt to 2014.(Source by Congressional Budget Office)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); TAX LAW (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); RETIREMENT AGE (70%) Social Security (US); Taxation

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%)

PERSON: Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



37 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 01-02-05: IDEA LAB; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Sentencing by the Numbers

BYLINE: By Emily Bazelon. 
Emily Bazelon is a senior editor at Legal Affairs magazine and a Soros justice fellow.

 BODY:
Imagine that you could stop a crime before it happened. Not by zapping a murderer seconds before he bloodied his victim, like the future cop played by Tom Cruise in ''Minority Report,'' but by sitting calmly on the bench in judge's robes and perusing a single sheet of data. Armed with the stats, you could predict the likelihood that a convicted drug dealer or thief standing before you would be arrested again in the near future if you let him go free. 
 For decades, the science of predicting future criminality has been junk science -- the guesswork of psychologists who were wrong twice as often as they were right. But today, the detailed collection of crime statistics is beginning to make it possible to determine which bad guys really will commit new offenses. In 2002, the Commonwealth of Virginia began putting such data to use: the state encourages its judges to sentence nonviolent offenders the way insurance agents write policies, based on a short list of factors with a proven relationship to future risk. If a young, jobless man is convicted of shoplifting, the state is more likely to recommend prison time than when a middle-aged, employed woman commits the same crime. 
 Virginia's new sentencing method was born of a budget crunch. Faced with the prospect of building new prisons after passing a tough-on-crime measure in 1994, the Legislature asked the state sentencing commission to figure out which nonviolent offenders could be kept out of prison without posing a risk of committing new crimes. The commission's director, Richard Kern, and his staff members tracked 1,500 nonviolent drug, larceny and fraud offenders for three years after their release from prison. The researchers found that men were 55 percent as likely to be rearrested as women, and that offenders in their 20's were a much higher risk than those older than 40. Being unemployed made offenders more likely to commit another crime. So did being single. 
 Using these factors and a few others, including a defendant's adult and juvenile criminal records, Kern designed a simple 71-point scale of risk assessment as an aid for judges. If he scores 35 points or less, a defendant who would have otherwise gone to prison under Virginia sentencing guidelines is recommended for an alternative sanction like probation or house arrest. Anything above 35 means a recommendation of jail time. ''Judges make risk assessments every day,'' Kern said. ''Prosecutors do, too. Our model brings more equity to the process and ties the judgments being made to science.'' 
 Kern tested his model on prisoners released five years earlier and found that his ratings correctly predicted who would be reconvicted in three out of four cases. Of the felons who scored at or below the 35-point cutoff, 12 percent committed new crimes, compared with more than 38 percent for those who scored higher. After calculating that only a slight increase in recidivism would result, the state raised the 35-point cutoff to 38 points last July. Meanwhile, the growth of the state's prison population -- which used to be more than twice the national average -- has slowed nearly to a halt. 
 But if Virginia is pleased with itself, those who think punishment should reflect blameworthiness are not. They argue that by penalizing offenders differently for the same crimes, for reasons that have nothing to do with moral culpability, the state has abandoned the idea that punishment is a form of ''just deserts'' for wrongdoing. ''If you're punishing people because of a bunch of factors that have nothing to do with blame, well, you're not in the business of doing justice anymore,'' said Paul Robinson, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania. As he and like-minded legal thinkers see it, a woman in her 40's who deals drugs hasn't done anything more to earn trust or deserve a break than a male dealer in his 20's charged with the same offense. She has just gotten lucky, by falling into a group whose other members have generally proved a good public-safety bet. Meanwhile, jobless single men in their 20's start with 36 points on Virginia's risk scale, putting them on the cusp of going to prison before the crime they committed is even taken into consideration.
 It's not a foregone conclusion that Virginia's method of sentencing is permissible under the Constitution, though no young male offender has brought a court challenge so far. Age and sex are what the law calls ''immutable characteristics,'' and it's a fundamental principle of antidiscrimination law that the government has to tread carefully when it treats people differently because of qualities that are beyond their control. (Being married or holding a job are different, but not entirely so, since these statuses reflect people's opportunities as well as their preferences.) 
 Still, if the state has a compelling reason to discriminate based on age and sex, it sometimes can. And public safety is almost always deemed to be such a reason. The moral and legal picture would be cloudier, of course, if Virginia's sentencing recommendations were based on race. There's a statistical basis for doing that; Kern's study found that African-American felons committed new crimes at higher rates than whites. But Kern and his commission advised the state to stop short of taking race into account at sentencing, reasoning that it was merely serving as a proxy for socioeconomic disadvantage.
 Virginia has tried to deflect criticism by emphasizing that judges are free to ignore the sentencing recommendations if they so please. By retaining such flexibility, Virginia has also reduced the danger that the predictions might have counterproductive consequences. This potential pitfall is what economists call a moral-hazard problem: drug dealers with low scores will realize that they're likely to avoid prison, and so have a greater incentive to sell more cocaine. (If that sounds unlikely, consider that some dealers already use child couriers to shield themselves.) If Virginia was to notice a jump in crime among middle-aged and elderly women, the state could adjust its predictions, Richard Epstein of the University of Chicago Law School points out. But allowing judges to send a little old lady to prison for a long time, if necessary, helps prevent the moral hazard in the first place.
 Predicting risk can lead to harsh results. At the Legislature's request, Kern's commission tracked 579 sex offenders for an average of eight years after their release from prison. The small minority who scored above 43 on a 61-point scale were all arrested again, either for sex offenses or other crimes that harmed someone. So the sentencing commission recommended tripling the sentences for offenders in this group. For rape, a 13-year sentence would soar to 39 years. 
 For the sex offender who would have stayed clean despite the odds, that heavy sentence would seem unjust. But for states faced with overcrowded prisons and limited budgets, it may not be irrational. 


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Lisa Kereszi
 Yancey Richardson Gallery)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (91%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); PRISONS (89%); PROBATION (89%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (88%); PAROLE (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); HOUSE ARREST (78%); CRIME STATISTICS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); FELONIES (78%); JUDGES (77%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (76%); STATISTICS (76%); MEN (74%); JUVENILE CRIME (73%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (72%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (71%); SHOPLIFTING (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); INSURANCE (67%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (53%) Crime and Criminals; Sentences (Criminal); Probation and Parole; Crime and Criminals

PERSON: TOM CRUISE (72%) Emily Bazelon

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Virginia

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



38 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 01-02-05: QUESTIONS FOR JEANNE L. PHILLIPS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: It's the President's Party 

BYLINE: By Deborah Solomon

 BODY:
Q: As the chairwoman of the 55th Presidential Inaugural Committee, have you worked closely with President Bush in planning the nine official balls and other festivities surrounding his inauguration on Jan. 20? 
 I almost always work with the first lady. The meetings are usually in her office, or on the telephone. I just had a meeting with her this morning on the details. 
 Your friendship with the Bushes goes way back. You initially worked for the senior George Bush as a fund-raiser in Dallas. 
 I met him when I walked in off the street in 1979 and volunteered to help on his campaign against President Reagan. I think President 41 is the world's nicest man. 
 Is it true you canceled your wedding to plan a fund-raiser for him? 
 When I was getting married, in 1990, my friend Fred Meyer, who was then the chairman of the Texas Republican Party, called up and said: ''J.J., I have great news! President Bush himself is coming to Dallas on May 18.'' And I said: ''No, he can't! That's my wedding.'' I talked to my fiance, David, who is now my wonderful husband, and he said, ''Oh, sure, we can move the wedding for a week.'' It was a small wedding. 
 Your husband sounds flexible. Perhaps that's because he's a psychotherapist. 
 He is, and he also has a little international consulting firm.
 Is everyone in Texas a consultant? You recently became a consultant to Hunt Oil. 
 I don't do lobbying. I work with Hunt Oil on some of their overseas projects, and I also help them with their charitable and political contribution planning.
 Did Ray Hunt personally offer you the job? 
 Yes, he did, and his son Hunter. 
 I imagine such contacts prove useful when you are raising money for the inauguration. You are asking underwriters for $250,000 a pop. 
 We are raising the funds so that parade tickets stay at a price that anyone can afford. We need underwriters to help us.
 I hear one of the balls will be reserved for troops who have served in Iraq or Afghanistan.
 Yes, the Commander-in-Chief Ball. That is new. It will be about 2,000 servicemen and their guests. And that should be a really fun event for them.
 As an alternative way of honoring them, did you or the president ever discuss canceling the nine balls and using the $40 million inaugural budget to purchase better equipment for the troops? 
 I think we felt like we would have a traditional set of events and we would focus on honoring the people who are serving our country right now -- not just the people in the armed forces, but also the community volunteers, the firemen, the policemen, the teachers, the people who serve at, you know, the -- well, it's called the StewPot in Dallas, people who work with the homeless. 
 How do any of them benefit from the inaugural balls? 
 I'm not sure that they do benefit from them.
 Then how, exactly, are you honoring them? 
 Honoring service is what our theme is about.
 Do you think President Bush and the first lady like to dance? 
 I think that probably he enjoys a baseball game maybe a little bit more than dancing. 
 Does he have any favorite dishes? 
 The only thing I know he likes is peanut butter and jelly, and barbecue.
 After the last inauguration, President Bush offered you a job as ambassador to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, in Paris. What will you do after this inauguration? 
 The president has all of my phone numbers, so if he ever needs me to do something, he knows that the likely answer is yes. Deborah Solomon


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Stephen Crowley)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (86%); ARMED FORCES (84%); POLITICS (78%); VOLUNTEERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (75%); MARRIAGE (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (62%) United States Politics and Government; Inaugurations

COMPANY: HUNT OIL CO (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%) Deborah Solomon; Jeanne L Phillips; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



39 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; NEWS AND ANALYSIS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Rebels With a Cause, and a Business Plan

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. TAYLOR. 
William C. Taylor, a co-founder of Fast Company magazine, is writing a book called ''Mavericks at Work.'' He lives in Wellesley, Mass.

 BODY:
AT times, Arkadi Kuhlmann can sound a lot like Eliot Spitzer or Suze Orman. He rails against the banking industry's high fees. He bemoans a financial culture that encourages people to save too little, consume too much and invest too recklessly. 
 But Mr. Kuhlmann is neither a government enforcer nor a high-profile financial planner. He is the chief executive of one of the fastest-growing retail banks in the country. His operation, ING Direct USA, opened for business in September 2000 and has attracted some two million customers and nearly $30 billion of assets. In the first half of 2004, with 1,000 employees, the bank, a unit of the Dutch bank ING Groep, generated pretax profits of $112 million. 
 Mr. Kuhlmann and a few other businesses, like Craigslist, the online bulletin board, have adopted strategic advocacy as their business model. Companies that embrace this philosophy don't just try to avoid the wrath of reformers. They aim to fly the flag of change themselves by questioning the standard industry operating procedures. They try to stand out from the crowd by standing for an alternative to business as usual. 
 In the case of ING Direct, Mr. Kuhlmann and his colleagues say that they aren't just building a bank. They are challenging and trying to change the common and what they call the misguided practices of an entire industry. ''We looked around and said, 'The banking business is bust,''' Mr. Kuhlmann said. ''The consumer always loses. Then we said, 'How can we do something radically different?'''
 The approach is not without precedent, of course. For decades, Southwest Airlines has defied the industry's standard approaches to economics and customer service, and has achieved good results. HBO has become the most powerful creative force in television -- and a financial juggernaut -- by becoming a force for originality in an industry defined by mimicry. But with so much competition in the market, and so much mistrust in the air, a new generation of companies is embracing and extending the advocacy strategy.
 ''I love our advocacy position,'' Mr. Kuhlmann said. ''It differentiates us. Most companies, especially in an industry like banking, are truly boring. If you do things the way everybody else does, why do you think you're going to be any better?''
 ING Direct USA, based in Wilmington, Del., will never be confused with Citibank or Bank of America. It is a direct-to-the-customer operation, an Internet-based savings bank -- although customers can also bank by mail or phone. There are no branches, no A.T.M.'s. There are also no fees, no minimum deposits and a limited number of product offerings: savings accounts, a few certificates of deposit, a handful of mutual funds. 
 The simplicity of the model means that ING Direct's costs are very low: in some parts of the business, they are one-sixth the cost at a conventional bank. Low costs mean that ING Direct can offer relatively high interest rates on deposits, with its basic passbook savings account, at 2.35 percent, offering four times the industry average. But the bank's core message isn't about its business model. It's about ''leading Americans back to savings'' -- championing the virtues of thrift in an age when most financial services conglomerates, Mr. Kuhlmann argues, lead their customers into financial temptation.
 ''One way or another, most financial companies are telling you to spend more,'' he said. ''We're showing you how to save more. What's better than apple pie, the little guy, fighting for the underdog? We want to own that space.''
 For ING Direct, the first order of business is introducing products that make it easy and financially rewarding for customers to save. But a big part of its strategy is choosing the products it won't offer. For example, it doesn't issue credit cards, or market auto loans, or even provide checking accounts. Those services encourage customers to spend, and are contrary to the focus on saving. ''Rich Americans are used to platinum cards, special service,'' he said. ''We treat everybody the same.''
 ING Direct even rejects customers whom it considers out of sync with its message. The company ''fired'' more than 3,500 customers last year -- customers who, in one way or another, didn't play by the bank's rules. These were people who, for example, made too many calls to customer service or asked the bank too often to make exceptions from its standard operating procedures.
 Another company that has staked out a contrarian position through the use of customer advocacy is Craigslist, the online bulletin board that has become a darling of the Internet sector. Jim Buckmaster, the chief executive of Craigslist, is soft-spoken, reserved, minimalist in his rhetoric and demeanor. But his personality is a perfect fit for his company, which aims to provide a no-frills ''public service'' in an industry filled with overblown claims and intrusive marketing.
 ''I don't want to bad-mouth corporations,'' he says. ''We're a corporation. But there's room for a lot more diversity in the approach companies take. We're trying to stake out one modest example for corporate America, for people to see if it's applicable to what they do.''
 Craigslist, based in San Francisco, has attracted acclaim through what Mr. Buckmaster calls its ''nerd values.'' There is no talk of monetizing eyeballs, maximizing click-throughs or building a backlog of banner ads. Users swap messages, sell goods and services, search for apartments and look for jobs on a bare-bones site that charges no monthly fees, accepts no advertising and uses virtually no graphics.
 Craigslist has a simple, unadorned Web site. But that is part of a forward-looking business strategy. Mr. Buckmaster said he reveled in what he called ''the ironies of unbranding, demonetizing and noncompeting.'' Together, they represent sharp departures from the commercialism on so much of the Web.
 Craigslist has an unconventional approach to investing in its ''brand'': it doesn't do anything. ''We never even use that word internally,'' Mr. Buckmaster said. ''We do zero advertising. We don't have a logo. Now we're told we have the strongest brand ever for a company our size.'' 
 The company also has a fresh approach to competition: it doesn't compete. ''We have no interest in competing with anyone,'' Mr. Buckmaster said. ''We're just trying to create something as useful as possible. Yet we keep reading that we're one of the newspaper industry's deadliest competitors'' for classified ads.
 Above all, Craigslist has a distinctive approach to economics: it keeps finding reasons not to charge customers. It imposes modest fees on companies that post job listings in Los Angeles, San Francisco and New York, and there is talk of charging real estate agents to list apartments in New York. Other than that, the site is free. Yet the company has generated healthy profits on revenue approaching $10 million a year, and eBay recently bought a minority stake.
 THAT is the ultimate contradiction of Craigslist, and the power of advocacy as a strategy. Craigslist's authentically anticommercial values have led to a flourishing commercial property -- a company with Web sites in 65 cities, sites that add three million new classified ads a month and get more than a billion page views a month. People involved in several proposed deals said that Craigslist, with just 14 employees, might fetch as much as $100 million if it were put up for sale. 
 ''We're definitely oddballs in the Internet industry, and we always have been,'' Mr. Buckmaster said. ''Lots of people made fun of us, especially at the height of the dot-com boom. Most of those people are out of business now.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Arkadi Kuhlmann, chief executive of ING Direct USA, the Internet-based retail bank, says it tries to encourage customers to save -- by not offering credit cards, for example. (Photo by Pat Crowe II/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS PLANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%) Banks and Banking; Savings; Credit and Money Cards

COMPANY: ING GROEP NV (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); ING BANK FSB (57%); CRAIGSLIST INC (56%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Ing Direct; Craigslist

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (92%); INGA (AMS) (92%); ING (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); LUV (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (73%) William C Taylor; Arkadi Kuhlmann

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (51%) DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



40 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street's Designs on '05? A Boom in Merger Activity

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
Despite being one of the nation's most prominent takeover lawyers, Martin Lipton has in recent years been Wall Street's holiday Grinch, issuing bleak yet ultimately accurate annual forecasts for mergers. In one year-end letter to his clients, he went so far as to declare that deal making had fallen into disrepute.
 The past year has made Mr. Lipton a believer. 
 ''Yes, it appears that there will be an M.&A. boom in 2005,'' Mr. Lipton, who founded the Wall Street law firm of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, wrote in his latest annual letter. ''The recent increase in M.&A. activity reflects a return to confidence in the economy and to accommodation to the new accounting and corporate governance requirements.'' 
 Mr. Lipton's newfound optimism suggests that corporate America has finally gotten a bit of swagger back in its step after years of self-doubt and housecleaning in the wake of Enron and the scramble to comply with tougher regulations.
 If the last month was any indication, Mr. Lipton's prediction may already be a bit dated: the merger boom is already in full throttle. In December alone, Sprint agreed to buy Nextel Communications for $35 billion, Johnson & Johnson made a deal to acquire Guidant for $25 billion, Symantec agreed to buy Veritas for $13.5 billion, PeopleSoft finally capitulated to Oracle's $10.3 billion offer, and I.B.M. sold its flagship personal computer business to Lenovo of China for $1.75 billion.
 And those kinds of headline-grabbing acquisitions tend to beget more deal making. 
 ''It is causing a lot of companies to inquire, 'What does it mean to me? Do I need to do something?''' said Steven Baronoff, who runs the global mergers practice at Merrill Lynch.
 Last month was the busiest December in history, with a total of $283.7 billion in mergers and acquisitions worldwide, outpacing the total deal volume during the same period in 1999, at the height of the stock market bubble and merger mania, according to Thomson Financial, which tracks deal data.
 For the year, deals were up nearly 50 percent compared with 2003 -- the biggest yearly jump since 1998.
 ''We're clearly at a turning point in the M.&A. market,'' said Bob Filek, a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers in New York. ''Companies will be more active across the board. They have a lot of cash, and there's a lot of debt financing available.''
 To be sure, many of the forces driving the merger boom were already in place at the beginning of 2004: interest rates were relatively low, corporate profits were poised for strong gains and many companies were sitting on a mountain of cash that had been hoarded over several cautious years.
 But corporate America's buying spree took some time to take off, a sign that insecurity was still ruling the boardroom. 
 After the year began with a bang with J.P. Morgan Chase's $58 billion acquisition of Bank One and Cingular Wireless's $41 billion deal for AT&T Wireless, the pace of deal making slowed to a near crawl by the spring. Uneasiness among investors grew as the death toll climbed in Iraq and the United States presidential election approached. As a result, a number of merger negotiations were suspended, and September and October ended up being two of the slowest months in history for deals. 
 The only deal makers still working were the private equity firms. Throughout the market's downturn, these firms, backed by big, private investors seeking rich returns five years down the road, had been the most active players, as they tried to buy businesses on the cheap while the big corporations focused their attention internally.
 But after the election -- and the stock market rally that followed -- Wall Street's deal makers went into overdrive, first with the announcement of Kmart's $11 billion acquisition of Sears and then the frenzy of deals last month.
 ''The lift in the stock market postelection caused people to dust off deals that had gotten close earlier in the year but didn't get there when there was uncertainty and the stock prices were less firm,'' Mr. Baronoff of Merrill Lynch said.
 The market's reaction to the latest wave of deals may encourage more companies to come to the negotiating table. Typically, investors have penalized the shares of buyers, worried that they have overpaid or that the integration process will be difficult. But if the stock market's initial reaction to deals like Kmart's merger with Sears is any indication -- shares of Kmart initially rose more than 20 percent in its first hours of trading the day the deal was announced -- other corporations may now feel more comfortable pursuing transactions.
 ''That's the real story,'' said Douglas Braunstein, the chief of investment banking coverage and mergers and acquisitions at J.P. Morgan Chase. ''Shareholders are giving acquirers the benefit of the doubt, unlike several years ago.''
 Well, not all of them. 
 Deals that have a strong strategic rationale -- for example, the acquisition of AT&T Wireless that removed a competitor in what is widely seen as an overcrowded field -- have been applauded. But some other deals have brought back memories of the boom-and-bust 1990's.
 Symantec's $13.5 billion acquisition of Veritas, for example, has been criticized as strategically unsound. Shares of Symantec have fallen some 21 percent since word of a deal emerged two weeks ago. That acquisition brings Symantec's antivirus and spyware software business together with Veritas's corporate backup and archive business. Investors and analysts argue Veritas is a more natural fit for a hardware manufacturer and that Symantec is simply using its highly valued stock to insulate itself from a downturn in its own business.
 Despite the skepticism over that software deal, Silicon Valley is expected to become the new frontier for deals this year. The technology industry has long been considered a potentially fertile ground for mergers because it is so fragmented. The formidable barrier to doing deals has always been the belief that anything but a friendly deal would cause the software designers and engineers -- the real assets of any technology company -- to flee.
 Oracle's dogged and ultimately successful hunt for PeopleSoft appears to have turned that notion upside down. Oracle's shares have risen 3.7 percent since PeopleSoft announced on Dec. 13 that it would agree to a takeover.
 And hostile deals may be back, too. While Comcast's unsolicited $54.1 billion bid for the Walt Disney Company went nowhere, other similar deals are expected to have a greater chance of succeeding.
 ''The increase in the power of institutional and activist shareholders has been manifested in the dismantling of takeover defenses by many companies during the past two years,'' Mr. Lipton wrote in his letter. ''This, combined with the threat of a proxy fight to remove a board of directors that rejects a takeover bid, will encourage aggressive acquirers to make use of 'bear hugs' and hostile tender offers.''
 American companies in particular may become the targets of foreign suitors in Europe and Japan looking to take advantage of the deep discounts because of the weak dollar. The weak dollar may also prevent United States companies from making a mega-acqusition abroad.
 Still, the biggest enemy of deal making is uncertainty, and the possibility that terrorism and other problems around the world could stop this merger boom in its tracks.
 ''The marketplace and C.E.O.'s have had a tremendous sense of renewed confidence,'' said Ray McGuire, who co-manages the mergers and acquisitions practice at Morgan Stanley. ''But if a new problem comes along, we could be back where we started.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Edward S. Lampert, left, Kmart's chairman, and Alan J. Lacy, the chief executive of Sears, announced their $11 billion merger in November. (Photo by Gregory Bull/Associated Press)
 Gary D. Forsee, the chief of Sprint, and Timothy Donahue, Nextel's chief, last month when Sprint agreed to buy Nextel for $35 billion. (Photo by Timothy A. Clary/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)(pg. 13)Graph: ''Climbing Again''Graph tracks the value of announced domestic mergers and acquisitions since 1984.(Source by Thomson Financial)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); MERGERS (89%); DIVESTITURES (86%); BONDS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); LAWYERS (75%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (74%); DEBT FINANCING (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (65%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (54%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Stocks and Bonds; Records and Achievements; Foreign Investments; United States Economy; Credit; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: WACHTELL LIPTON ROSEN & KATZ (84%); ORACLE CORP (67%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (67%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (56%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%); SYMANTEC CORP (54%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (67%); JNJ (NYSE) (67%); SYMC (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (67%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (67%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (67%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (67%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (67%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (67%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: EDDIE LAMPERT (79%); GARY D FORSEE (74%) Andrew Ross Sorkin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



41 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Nation; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: The Penny-Wise Aren't Foolish Anymore

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS

 BODY:
IN business and finance, a powerful orthodoxy has long held that bigger is better. 
 Large-capitalization stocks like General Electric, Citigroup and Microsoft command the most attention from analysts and the talking heads on CNBC. The automotive industry far prefers selling giant sport-utility vehicles to peddling tiny gas-sipping compacts, since the gas guzzlers carry far higher profit margins. 
 The business models of casinos, brokerage firms and hedge funds all rest on attracting people with lots of money to spend or manage. Jumbo mortgages, supersize fast food and blockbuster drugs are the presumed key to big profits -- not micro-loans, penny candy and pharmaceuticals aimed at rare diseases. 
 But in 2004, signs were abundant that small can be beautiful, too. In the stock market, less-heralded stocks crushed their larger, more famous brethren. Through Dec. 29, the Russell 2000 -- an index of smaller-capitalization stocks -- was up an impressive 17.32 percent for the year. That's almost double the return of the Standard & Poor's 500 (up 9.13 percent). And it dwarfs the meager 3.6 percent rise in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, composed of 30 titans of business. 
 More broadly, though, in politics, entertainment and even consumer products, some very large organizations that aim to profit by selling goods and services in tiny bites made significant headway. 
 Fueled by continuing advances in information technology and a relentless search for new consumers, the trend is likely to continue in 2005. And as more executives come to realize that piles of pennies can add up to significant dollars, segments of the public that have long been either ignored or excluded may find themselves being welcomed into the ever-expanding economic tent.
 Political fundraising is one example. In 2004, of course, the big boys played their role, from the billionaire George Soros spending millions to unseat President Bush on the left, to President Bush's legions of Rangers on the right, who each delivered contributions of at least $200,000. 
 But just as the McCain-Feingold law began to ban unlimited contributions to political parties, the Internet matured as a fund-raising source that specialized in harvesting relatively modest contributions. 
 ''Smaller donations were a major component of a new surge of money into the political parties and the campaigns in 2004,'' said Kent Cooper, a former member of the Federal Election Commission staff and a co-founder of PoliticalMoneyLine.com, which tracks political spending. 
 In 2004, President Bush raised $89 million, or nearly one third of his funds, in donations under $200, compared with just 10.5 percent, or $20 million, in 2000, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. John Kerry raised $72 million, or 32 percent of his donations from the comparatively impecunious under-$200 crowd; in 2000, Al Gore raised just $13.32 million, or 10 percent of his total, from such donations. 
 In entertainment and media, some of the biggest blockbusters were quite small. Apple's iPod devices and iTunes music store, which allow for the sale and storage of music in ever-smaller packages, went platinum. Susan Kevorkian, a senior analyst with IDC Corporation, estimated that digital music sales exploded from $60 million in 2003 to an estimated $279 million in 2004. And on Dec. 16, the 200-millionth song from iTunes was downloaded, for the small price of 99 cents. 
 Digital sales still represent a minor part of the music total. Unlike sales of CD's, however, they're actually rising. And with the success of iTunes, ''the record companies are viewing digital downloading as an opportunity, not just a threat,'' said Mike McGuire, research director at Gartner G2, a technology research firm.
 What fueled the ability of Apple to sell single songs profitably? It wasn't merely because U2 made a splashy deal with Apple to sell its latest hit album preloaded in custom iPods. It was the growing acceptance of micropayments on the part of consumers and merchants. 
 The cost of processing tiny credit-card transactions has long been a stumbling block; fees can quickly eat up most of a $1 transaction. But companies like Peppercoin, based in Waltham, Mass., are rolling out new services that allow merchants to bundle together several small transactions and process them as one.
 A survey conducted by Peppercoin and the research group Ipsos-Insight showed that from October 2003 to September 2004, the number of Americans who had bought something online for $2 or less rose from 4 million to 14 million. 
 ''We live in a world of micropayments,'' said Mark Friedman, president of Peppercoin. Mr. Friedman said he envisioned expanding his services to capture some of the $1.32 trillion in transactions conducted for less than $5 in cash annually. 
 With the help of a little micropayment technology, purchases of cups of coffee at Dunkin' Donuts, McDonald's Happy Meals, time at parking meters, and junk food at vending machines can all be conducted (profitably) with plastic.
 Some big companies have already proved that tiny payments can contribute to big profits. One of the most interesting business books of the year was ''The Fortune at the Bottom of the Pyramid: Eradicating Poverty Through Profits'' (Wharton School Publishing) by C.K. Prahalad, a professor at the University of Michigan. Professor Prahalad energetically describes the potential of large companies to prosper by serving the four billion humans who live on less than $2 a day. 
 Many of his case studies are from India, where Procter & Gamble, for example, sells its high-end Pantene shampoo in single-serve packets for the equivalent of one or two pennies. Professor Prahalad counterintuitively urges us to view the world's very poor not merely as victims, but ''as resilient entrepreneurs and value-conscious consumers.'' 
 So there you have it. Resilient entrepreneurs and value-conscious C.E.O.'s, if you want to make money in 2005, resolve to think small.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 9, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the growing business in products that cost just a few cents referred incorrectly in some copies to the economic condition of four billion poor people in the world. They subsist on $2 a day, not $2 a year.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Chris Ritchie/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (87%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); RETAILERS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); MICROFINANCE (70%); ELECTIONS (68%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (67%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (50%) United States Economy; Credit and Money Cards; Retail Stores and Trade; Computers and the Internet; Consumer Behavior; United States Economy

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Peppercoin (Co)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (84%); AL GORE (52%); GEORGE SOROS (50%) Daniel Gross; Mark Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



42 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; OPENERS: REFRESH BUTTON; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: A Hot Ticket (After Politics)

BYLINE: By Robert Johnson

 BODY:
Brian Mulroney's economic policies were unpopular when he resigned as prime minister of Canada in 1993, but his business guidance is now in demand.
 After leaving politics, Mr. Mulroney, now 65, returned to practicing law; he's a senior partner in corporate practice at Ogilvy Renault of Montreal. He also is a director of Archer Daniels Midland, Barrick Gold, Cendant, Quebecor and Trizec Properties. ''I'm already working on my schedule for meetings and speaking engagements in 2006,'' he said. 
 Mr. Mulroney, who has homes in Montreal and in Palm Beach, Fla., readily acknowledges that he enjoys his celebrity during his frequent visits to the United States. Ever since he delivered a eulogy last year at Ronald Reagan's funeral, ''I can't go anywhere without people coming up and saying something nice,'' he said. 
 After sweeping into office in 1984, Mr. Mulroney brought a conservative revolution to his country, in some ways similar to those led by Mr. Reagan in the United States and Margaret Thatcher in Britain. But Mr. Mulroney's program of budget cuts and deregulation eventually lost public support. When he resigned four months before a scheduled election, his favorable rating in opinion polls had dropped to 20 percent.
 Today, he is much admired in the corporate world. When Teilhard Technologies, based in Calgary, Alberta, hired him last month as a special adviser, the chief executive, Ken Prather, used a familiar political term to describe Mr. Mulroney's authority: he said he had given him a ''mandate'' to offer strategic advice on developing Teilhard's software patents and bringing them to market.
 In his announcement, Mr. Prather wasn't shy about his desire to use the former government leader's contacts: ''Mr. Mulroney's extensive international network and world-class negotiating experience'' could be invaluable to the company, he said.
 Mr. Mulroney is vigorous for an executive of any age. ''I'm pretty spry between 5 a.m. and 6 a.m., when I begin my day,'' he said. His exercise regimen is a daily ''walk run'' of about an hour, and his work schedule regularly includes weekends. ''If clients need me, I'm available,'' he said.
 He is also active in charity work, especially in fund-raising for cystic fibrosis research, with his wife, Mila Pivnicki. Mr. Mulroney spends some of his spare time writing his memoirs. He does not plan to be politically active again. ''Only in the sense of following it,'' he said. Robert Johnson


GRAPHIC: Photo: Brian Mulroney 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CELEBRITIES (71%); FUNDRAISING (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); CHARITIES (66%); DEREGULATION (66%); PATENTS (65%); BUDGET CUTS (52%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (50%); CYSTIC FIBROSIS (50%) United States International Relations

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (72%)

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (72%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (72%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (72%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (72%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (72%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (72%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (72%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%) Robert Johnson; Brian Mulroney

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (88%) QUEBEC, CANADA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (58%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005



43 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Seeking a New Look, Atlantic City Turns to Its History

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY, Dec. 29 

 BODY:
Atlantic City has finally found something about Las Vegas that it doesn't want to copy: the way it looks.
 When Las Vegas casino operators decided that their business should be more family-friendly, Atlantic City leaders started talking about roller rinks and other family attractions. When Las Vegas started making more money from dining, shopping and entertainment than from gambling, Atlantic City began pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into the same ventures. 
 But as Las Vegas begins yet another round of glitter-and-kitsch construction along the Vegas Strip, the Atlantic City casinos have signed on to a retro approach: starting with the famous Boardwalk, revive a little of the Atlantic City of old, before all the casinos arrived. 
 ''Whenever I visit the head of one of the casinos, their walls are covered with black and white pictures of Atlantic City in its heyday,'' said Curtis Bashaw, head of the state's Casino Reinvestment Development Authority. ''It's like this place is haunted by the images of this city in its glory days.''
 Now his agency, which invests money raised by a casino tax into economic development projects in the city, is using the lure of low-interest financing to encourage casinos to embrace new design standards along the Boardwalk that evoke the look and scale of the city's original tourist hotels.
 Under the new rules, if the operators of the nine casinos fronting the Boardwalk want to use the agency's money to renovate their properties, they will have to meet those standards. Showboat has already agreed to change the design for its new $70 million House of Blues nightclub, scheduled to open on the Boardwalk in July.
 With Delaware drawing customers away with its racetrack and gambling parlors, Pennsylvania rushing to create dozens of slot parlors and New York State moving to build casinos closer to Manhattan, Atlantic City is looking for a way to give gamblers something different.
 ''With all the encroachment of gaming in the region, the operators are much more aware that Atlantic City has to be more than a bunch of slots parlors on the beach,'' said Mr. Bashaw, who is also a Cape May hotel operator. ''They are much more aware of Atlantic City as a brand.'' 
 The old photographs that the casino operators cherish offer a study in contrasts. Immense buildings white as snow jut up from the Boardwalk today, most of them presenting sheer, blank walls to passers-by. But the old Boardwalk was lined with brick and stone hotels that had tiled arcades, windows that gave a view in and out, bits of green grass and, as the new standards put it, ''active facades'' -- stores, entrances, windows and semipublic areas.
 ''By comparison,'' the development authority's analysis concluded, ''most existing casino hotels have few entry points and many linear feet of inaccessible interior.'' 
 Several casinos, indeed, have one of the city's most puzzling architectural features -- nooks designed to look like doors, with glass walls and awnings, that are not doors. Judging by the scene on Pacific Avenue, the first street back from the Boardwalk, many newcomers spend their first moments in town looking for entrances to the casinos.
 The Boardwalk casinos look the way they do because they were built by Las Vegas casino operators, said Michael Calafati, a partner with Historic Building Architects, of Trenton, who created a design inventory of the Boardwalk and drew up the new guidelines.
 ''They took a model that worked very well in the desert of the Southwest and plopped down these big boxes on the Boardwalk,'' Mr. Calafati said. ''Financially they were a success, but the image is really anemic compared to Atlantic City's heyday.''
 The loss of many of the old hotels and their friendly scale also occurred, Mr. Bashaw said, because of the shock New Jersey leaders felt when the national news media came to Atlantic City for the 1964 Democratic nominating convention, and reported to the nation that ''America's Playground,'' as the city had styled itself, had become a slum.
 ''The feeling was, just tear it down,'' Mr. Bashaw said.
 The new design rules are not intended to create a museum, only a more historically accurate cityscape along the Boardwalk, and one that is more inviting to strollers. ''Back to a sense of the city that celebrated people-watching, and general pedestrian activities,'' Mr. Calafati said.
 The first tangible step back to the Boardwalk design of old Atlantic City was taken when the Showboat agreed to meet the new standards by changing the design for the marquee and the entrance to the House of Blues.
 ''Our first design was very Las Vegas-like,'' said Dave Jonas, senior vice president for Atlantic City operations for Harrah's, which also runs the Showboat. ''It was very modern, with very sharp angles and lots of stucco; it was kind of cold. Curtis asked us to make some changes, and we came up with a design that was more modern, with softer corners and natural stone. And instead of a wall, we're putting in windows, so we get light coming into the casino, and we make the entrance more inviting.''
 Farther ''down beach'' from the Showboat, Bernard E. DeLury Jr., executive vice president of Caesars Entertainment, is thinking about ways to apply the design guidelines for repair work on the Claridge hotel, a survivor from the city's golden age and part of Caesars' three Boardwalk properties. 
 ''Instead of doing a slab dab paint job on the Claridge, we're thinking, lets move with a view toward preservation, of looking up there and seeing what's there -- taking off encrustations that were added, but getting the same functionality -- something that's closer to original design,'' he said. 
 Mr. DeLury says he also wishes he could open up the adjacent Dennis Hotel, another survivor, to the Boardwalk. But its inviting courtyard is blocked by an undistinguished two-story food and retail space whose owner is content to remain there. 
 It exemplifies one of the problems Mr. Bashaw faces in remaking the Boardwalk. However willing the casinos may be to put a new, old stamp on the Boardwalk, much of the frontage along it is taken up by a one- and two-story mishmash of three-for-$10 T-shirt joints, palmists, pizza-by-the-slice houses, fudge shops and other businesses that happen to be huge money makers. 
 With so much money already coming in, their owners appear content to stand pat, but Mr. Bashaw said he was patient.
 ''We're not saying this is compulsory,'' he said. ''But if you want to use our money, you're going to have to do it the right way.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Curtis Bashaw is head of a state agency that entices casinos to use designs that evoke the look of Atlantic City's early tourist hotels.
 A Boardwalk mall tries for a look that recalls the pre-gambling heyday. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); GAMING (90%); FAMILY (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); FAMILY TRAVEL (77%); THEME RESTAURANTS (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (65%); BEACHES (64%) Gambling; Casinos; Gambling; Area Planning and Renewal

ORGANIZATION: New Jersey Casino Redevelopment Authority

PERSON: Iver Peterson

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey; Atlantic City (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2005



44 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Automobiles; AUTOS ON MONDAY/Technology; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Reinventing the Wheel (and the Tire, Too)

BYLINE: By NORMAN MAYERSOHN

DATELINE: GREENVILLE, S.C. 

 BODY:
THE first automobile to use air-filled tires was a racecar built by Andre and Edouard Michelin in the early 1890's. More than a century later, the French company founded by the Michelin brothers is so identified with pneumatic tires that its mascot, Bibendum, is a man made of little else. 
 Now, after decades spent persuading the world to ride on air, the company has begun work on an innovation that could render the pneumatic tire obsolete. Engineers at Michelin's American technology center here envision a future in which vehicles would ride on what they call the Tweel, a combined tire and wheel that could never go flat because it contains no air.
 Arriving at a conference room recently to explain the development project, a research engineer, Bart Thompson, used the Segway Human Transporter that he rode to the meeting to illustrate his points. Aboard this high-tech visual aid -- one of those self-balancing electric scooters best remembered for the optimistic claim that it would reinvent personal transportation -- Mr. Thompson whizzed down the hallway and out to the lobby, pirouetting among the benches and planters to demonstrate the flexibility of the Tweel. 
 To be sure, the Segway would be a very small market for Michelin, the world's leading tiremaker, but it is an apt demonstration vehicle for the Tweel. The first commercial use of the integrated tire and wheel assembly will be on the stair-climbing iBOT wheelchair, another product developed by Dean Kamen, the Segway's inventor; Michelin said it would announce another application at the Detroit auto show next week.
 The tiremaker has high expectations for the Tweel project. The concept of a single-piece tire and wheel assembly is one the company expects to spread to passenger cars and, eventually, to construction equipment and aircraft. 
 The Tweel offers a number of benefits beyond the obvious attraction of being impervious to nails in the road. The tread will last two to three times as long as today's radial tires, Michelin says, and when it does wear thin it can be retreaded. 
 For manufacturers, the Tweel offers an opportunity to reduce the number of parts, eliminating most of the 23 components of a typical new tire as well as the costly air-pressure monitors that will soon be required on new vehicles in the United States. 
 In recent years, manufacturers have devoted an increasing amount of attention to tires that let motorists continue driving after a puncture, for 100 miles or more, at a reduced speed. Several such ''run flat'' designs are now available, providing convenience and peace of mind for travelers as well as freeing automakers to eliminate the weight and cost of spare tires. 
 Michelin, which markets run-flat tires under the Pax name, took a different approach in developing the Tweel. Its goal: a replacement for traditional tires that is designed to function without air in the first place. 
 Mounted on a car, the Tweel is a single unit, though it actually begins as an assembly of four pieces bonded together: the hub, a polyurethane spoke section, a ''shear band'' surrounding the spokes, and the tread band -- the rubber layer that wraps around the circumference and touches the pavement.
 While the Tweel's hub functions as it would in a normal wheel -- a rigid attachment point to the axle -- the polyurethane spokes are flexible to help absorb road impacts. The shear band surrounding the spokes effectively takes the place of the air pressure, distributing the load. The tread is similar in appearance to a conventional tire. 
 One of the basic shortcomings of a tire filled with air is that the inflation pressure is distributed equally around the tire, both up and down (vertically) as well as side-to side (laterally). That property keeps the tire round, but it also means that raising the pressure to improve cornering -- increasing lateral stiffness -- also adds up-down stiffness, making the ride harsher.
 With the Tweel's injection-molded spokes, those characteristics are no longer linked -- a point of particular excitement to an engineer like Mr. Thompson because of the potential it holds for improving handling response. The spokes can be engineered to give the Tweel five times as much lateral stiffness as current pneumatic tires without any loss of ride comfort. 
 The Tweel auto project is in its infancy -- ''Version 1.0,'' Mr. Thompson said -- and only a single set of car Tweels exist. A test drive in a Tweel-equipped Audi A4 sedan on roads around Michelin's research center proved to be far less exotic than the construction method or appearance would suggest. The prototype Tweels are noisy, as Mr. Thompson warned they would be, a problem traced to vibration in the spokes. 
 The Tweels also transmit more of the feel of a coarse road surface than customers would tolerate in a production tire, but the level is understandable considering the early stage of development. More important, the steering's response as the driver begins a turn is excellent, and large bumps were swallowed up easily by the Tweels and the Audi's unmodified suspension.
 There are other negatives: the flexibility, at this stage, contributes to greater friction, though it is within 5 percent of that generated by a conventional radial tire. And so far, the Tweel is no lighter than the tire and wheel it replaces.
 Almost everything else about the Tweel is undetermined at this early stage of development, including serious matters like cost and frivolous questions like the possibilities of chrome-plating. 
 Logical uses -- military vehicles, for example -- would come years before automobiles, but Michelin's business projections accommodate the possibility that the Tweel may not be an overnight success. This would be nothing new for Michelin: the radial tire it invented in 1946 was not widely accepted in the United States until the 1970's.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Tweel, an experimental tire and wheel combination developed by Michelin, is designed to replace today's air-filled tires. Flexible polyurethane spokes deflect over obstacles or on turns, above and left
 at speed, the spokes seem to disappear, above left. (Photographs by Rick Dole/Michelin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TIRES (90%); TIRE MFG (89%); WHEELCHAIRS & MOBILITY AIDS (88%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); MOTORCYCLES (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (73%); LOBBYING (72%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); TRADE SHOWS (69%); PRESSURE SENSORS (50%) Automobiles; Tires

COMPANY: CIE GENERALE DES ETABLISSEMENTS MICHELIN (95%)

ORGANIZATION: Michelin Group

TICKER: ML (PAR) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (95%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (95%)

PERSON: Norman Mayersohn

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (59%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2005



45 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Outlook; Markets & Investing; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: For Commodities, Hope Is Rising

BYLINE: By CONRAD de AENLLE

 BODY:
COMMODITIES are likely to resume multiyear rallies once a retrenchment that has gripped many markets runs its course, giving investors an opportunity to profit, analysts, economists and fund managers say. 
 ''Commodity prices are likely to be firmer in the future than most people until recently have been expecting,'' said Stuart Schweitzer, a commodity strategist at J.P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management. ''They will be volatile, but they will be relatively firm on a sustained basis for some time to come.''
 Such volatility has been especially evident in the last few months. Gold and silver prices continued to rise in 2004, but less than in the previous two years. And in December they lost some ground, especially silver. Crude oil and refined energy products followed similar paths. 
 The picture for agricultural products is mixed. Coffee and sugar prices are up nearly 60 percent. Cattle gained almost 19 percent, but corn, wheat, cotton and soybeans fell last year, with cotton down 40 percent.
 Industrial metals are proving more durable in every respect. Aluminum, copper, lead and steel and its related materials have risen sharply and held their gains. Copper, for instance, was up 40 percent on the year and double its price of early 2003. 
 Despite his optimism on the markets, Mr. Schweitzer added that ''the global economy has hit a soft patch that probably has somewhat further to run, so this may not be the best entry point'' for investors interested in playing commodity markets.
 Charles Ober, manager of the T. Rowe Price New Era fund, is willing to take his chances. He foresees higher prices for several sectors where supplies are tight, including precious and industrial metals and agricultural commodities.
 ''I'm particularly intrigued by the metals,'' Mr. Ober said. ''There has been a lack of major discoveries for a significant amount of time'' for the raw materials used to make steel and aluminum. Similarly, he said, ''The long-term outlook for farm commodities is pretty good.'' He cited a lack of investment in new production for 20 years.
 Mr. Schweitzer agrees. Traditionally, ''high commodity prices are their own worst enemy in a sense,'' he explained. ''When prices go up, producers have an incentive to build additional capacity.''
 But recently they have grown cautious. ''Companies, having been burned in the past by adding capacity prematurely, are showing greater spending discipline,'' Mr. Schweitzer said. He added that ''growth in many areas around the world has cooled,'' but there is ''unusually robust growth in resource-intensive economies.''
 Above all others, that is true of China, said Jerome Booth, research director at Ashmore Investment Management, a London firm specializing in emerging markets.
 ''The story of Chinese demand is driving hydrocarbons and metals,'' Mr. Booth said. ''China remains key over the next year to sustaining demand'' globally for industrial commodities.
 Even if the Chinese economy cools, Mr. Booth said, for China, ''a soft landing is a landing down to 7 percent to 8 percent a year -- in other words still a scenario for strong demand growth.'' His forecast is that ''commodity prices are probably going to remain stable, but with risk on the upside.''
 Any increases in commodity prices have implications for businesses and consumers, as well as for investors.
 ''The No.1 issue for me is: Will inflation remain low?'' Mr. Schweitzer said, and he predicted that it would. ''The U.S. and world economic expansion has a long way further to run as long as inflation stays low, and interest rates do not have to rise high enough to cut off the American consumer,'' he said.
 ''Other things are not going up in price because commodity prices are so firm,'' he said. ''Oil is up, so there is less money to spend on other things.''
 Edward Bonham Carter, chief investment officer at Jupiter Asset Management in London, agreed. ''Oil prices have slipped back in recent weeks but are likely to remain relatively high,'' he said in a note to investors. ''However, outsourcing makes an increase in inflation even less likely as wages in the developed world will remain under pressure.''
 Some businesses are likely to thrive as commodity prices increase, Mr. Ober, at T. Rowe Price, pointed out, and that has implications for stock market investors. He mentioned Newmont Mining Corporation, the world's largest gold producer, and Nucor Steel, a specialty steel maker, in particular.
 Agricultural commodities will be among the best performers in coming years, he predicts, and consequently, he has been putting money into stocks like the Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan and other leaders in the fertilizer business.
 ''When grain prices get better,'' he said, ''farmers are going to plant from fence post to fence post.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A Kaiser Aluminum mill in Trentwood, Wash., makes aluminum plate for use in military vehicle armor kits. (Photo by Business Wire)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SILVER MARKETS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); COTTON MARKETS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (89%); FIBER MARKETS (79%); FUTURES (79%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (79%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GRAIN MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (75%); AGRICULTURE (73%); CHEMICALS (73%); FOOD PRICES (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (67%) Futures and Options Trading; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Two Thousand Five (Year)

COMPANY: FLEMING ASSET MANAGEMENT (57%)

PERSON: Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2005



46 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Markets & Investing; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Drubbing of the Dollar: Dangerous or Therapeutic?

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
IF the pessimistic pundits are right, the battered dollar could set records this year.
 With a decline of more than 6.2 percent, the dollar would be the weakest it has been against the euro and its dominant European predecessor, the German mark, since the American currency began freely trading more than 30 years ago.
 A 12.8 percent fall would be the biggest one-year decline since 1973 and would bring the dollar to its weakest level ever against the Federal Reserve's broad currency index of 37 nations. That index adjusts the dollar for its value and the amount of trade with each country. 
 ''The credibility problem in the U.S. due to the growing deficits and the current administration's unwillingness to coordinate its economic policies globally is big enough to send the dollar to new lows over the next 12 to 24 months,'' said Laurie Cameron, global currency strategist at J.P. Morgan Private Bank.
 But even if the dollar has its biggest one-year collapse, it is not likely to break some records for weakness. The dollar would have to plunge more than 21.4 percent against the Japanese yen to set a new low. And it would have to fall more than 20.1 percent against the Canadian dollar and more than 21.6 percent against the British pound to hit post-1973 records for weakness.
 Jeremy Fand, senior proprietary currency trader at WestLB, a New York branch of a German bank, said that the dollar could rally early in 2005 as it becomes clear that the United States economy can continue to grow at a respectable pace and that interest rates here will rise, becoming more attractive than those abroad. 
 ''The U.S. economy is stronger than most people thought a few months ago, and the stock market is O.K. despite high oil prices,'' he said. ''That kind of resilience is attractive'' to foreign investors. 
 But he said that the nation's record current-account deficit, which has already dragged the dollar lower, ''will always be hanging over the market.'' So a dollar rally early this year, he said, ''doesn't mean that at the end of 2005 we will see a stronger dollar.''
 The dollar finished its third consecutive year of decline in 2004, with a 7.1 percent fall against the euro, a 4.3 percent drop against the yen and a 4 percent fall against the broad dollar index. A fourth year of decline in 2005 would give the currency only its second four-year fall since 1973, based on the broad dollar index. The other four-year slide started in 1985.
 If the dollar falls to its weakest levels since the early 1970's in Europe, the euro would be worth about $1.45, meaning that a 200 euro dinner in Paris would cost $290. The euro was worth $1.3554 at year's end.
 The dollar is unlikely to fall to its 1995 low of 80.63 yen, analysts said. But a 12.3 percent decline to 90 yen is possible, analysts said, if Japan does not step in again to support the dollar and slow a rise in the yen's value. A rise in the yen could reduce the country's exports and, in turn, slow economic growth. Over the 15 months through March 2004, Japan spent about $310 billion to support the dollar. At 90 yen to a dollar, a 20,000 yen dinner in Tokyo would cost $222. At the end of last year, the dollar was worth 102.63 yen. 
 It is not hard to find reasons for a further dollar decline. For one thing, the United States' record current-account deficit demands the inflow of more than $600 billion a year from abroad. Though that gap is being covered now, Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, has said that foreigners might curb their appetite for American investments. If that happens, the dollar could fall further and interest rates here would have to rise to win foreign investors back. 
 Moreover, the Bush administration, although it says it favors a strong dollar, appears willing to accept more decline because it helps American exporters and could help reduce the current-account deficit.
 President Bush has said that markets should determine the value of the dollar, and foreign exchange traders take that as an invitation to a further fall.
 In addition, the administration is pushing China to allow its currency, the yuan, which is now pegged to the dollar, to trade freely. If that happened, analysts say the dollar would drop sharply against it and other Asian currencies. Arun Motianey, director of investment research at Citigroup Private Bank, estimates that the dollar could fall more than 20 percent against over time against a freely traded yuan. 
 Foreign central banks have been big buyers of United States Treasury securities, and this buying helps support the dollar. As of October, foreign central banks and other official institutions owned $1.12 trillion of Treasury securities. These purchases may slow, however. Japan bought large amounts of Treasuries with the dollars it got when it sold yen to slow its rise in value against the dollar. But there has been no intervention since March. If China loosens its currency peg, it will also be recycling fewer dollars into the Treasury market. 
 Psychology is against the dollar now. Mr. Greenspan's comments on Nov. 19 focused attention on the current-account problem, making it a front-burner issue. Since his remarks, the dollar has dropped 4.4 percent against the euro, compared with a 2.8 percent fall for the entire year before then. And speculators are taking advantage of the negative psychology to bet on further dollar declines. ''There is a very large speculative aspect to what is going on,'' Mr. Fand said.
 Finally, interest rates in the United States are still relatively low. And though they are expected to rise this year, the dollar will not become a more attractive investment until they actually do so.
 If the dollar continues its fall this year, the main question is whether the decline will be disruptive or therapeutic. A rapid decline, especially one that appeared to get out of hand, could be bad for financial markets, giving rise to fears of a financial crisis. Both stock and bond prices could fall if investors feared that a tumbling dollar would force foreign investors away. Inflation would also be a problem, as a weaker dollar would make popular imports more expensive. 
 Still, an orderly decline in the dollar would be positive for United States exporters, as well as for domestic makers of products that compete with imports from Japan, Europe and elsewhere. This shift could also curb the growth of the current-account deficit.
 But Steven Englander, chief foreign exchange strategist for the Americas at Barclays Capital, is worried that even an orderly decline to new lows for the dollar could upset other markets. At new lows, he said, ''you will be into territory where people are not sure how other asset markets will react.''


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Struggling Abroad''The dollar is nearing record lows against some of the world's major currencies.Graphs track Euro In Dollars*, Yen To The Dollar and Trade Weighted Dollar since 1975.*German marks converted to euro prior to '99(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Federal Reserve)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (93%); EURO (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); BRITISH POUND (72%); GERMAN MARK (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); BANK BRANCHES (67%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Currency; Records and Achievements; Two Thousand Five (Year)

COMPANY: WESTLB AG (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (79%) Europe; Japan

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2005



47 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 513 words

PERSON: Joseph Durso

HEADLINE: Joseph Durso, 80, Former Sportswriter and Editor at The Times

BYLINE: By FRANK LITSKY

 BODY:
Joseph Durso, a former sportswriter and editor at The New York Times and the author of many books on sports history, died Friday at University Hospital in Stony Brook, N.Y. Mr. Durso, who lived in Nissequogue, N.Y., was 80.
 The cause was cancer, his wife, Margaret, said. 
 Mr. Durso, who retired from The Times in 2001 after 51 years with the paper, covered the Mets and the Yankees as his main assignments. He also covered the Kentucky Derby frequently, and during the 1990's he reported regularly on thoroughbred racing.
 Mr. Durso received the J.G. Taylor Spink Award from the Baseball Writers Association of America in 1995 for his contributions to baseball writing, placing him in the writers' and broadcasters' wing of the National Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, N.Y.
 With Eleanor Gehrig, the widow of the Yankees' Lou Gehrig, he wrote ''My Luke and I.'' The book was made into a 1978 television film ''A Love Affair: The Eleanor and Lou Gehrig Story,'' starring Blythe Danner, Edward Herrmann and Patricia Neal.
 Mr. Durso wrote biographies of Casey Stengel, Joe DiMaggio and John McGraw; a memoir of the Yankees years, with Mickey Mantle and Whitey Ford; histories of Yankee Stadium and Madison Square Garden; and ''The All-American Dollar,'' about the rising importance of financial affairs in the sports world.
 Joseph Paul Durso was born June 22, 1924, in New York City and was reared in Hudson Falls in the Adirondacks and in Upper Darby, Pa. He left New York University in his junior year to enlist in the Army Air Forces and became a pilot and flight instructor. 
 He returned to college in 1945 with so little money for clothing that he often wore an Army uniform to class. He received a bachelor's degree in economics in 1946, and a year later he earned a master's degree from the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia University.
 Mr. Durso became a reporter for The Newark Evening News in 1947. Months later, he moved to radio station WINS in New York as a news and sports writer and soon became its director of news and special events.
 He left in 1950 to become a copy editor on the national news desk of The Times. He served as an assistant to the national news editor, head of the city copy desk and an assistant city editor. He became a sportswriter in 1964.
 During a 119-day newspaper strike in 1962 and 1963, Mr. Durso and Theodore M. Bernstein, an assistant managing editor, presented a nightly radio show on WQXR, telling what Page 1 of The Times would have looked like each day. Years later, Mr. Durso did sports commentary that was syndicated by WQXR five nights a week. For many years, he was a visiting professor at Columbia's Graduate School of Journalism.
 In addition to his wife, Margaret, he is survived by his sons, Peter and David, of Glen Cove, N.Y., and Christopher, of Stony Brook, from his marriage to his first wife, Elsie, who died in 1992; a stepson, Joseph Darnell, of Wantagh, N.Y.; a stepdaughter, Elise Boehm, of Stony Brook; a brother, Michael, of San Diego; a sister, Teresa Durso, of Hudson Falls, N.Y.; and nine grandchildren.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 17, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Jan. 3 about Joseph Durso, a former sportswriter and editor at The New York Times, misstated the duration of a newspaper strike in New York City in 1962-63 during which he helped broadcast the news nightly on radio station WQXR. It was 114 days, not 119.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph Durso in 1974. (Photo by Bob Glass/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); WRITERS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); AIR FORCES (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); CANCER (57%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK METS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (72%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Sports

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2005



48 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; ASIA'S DEADLY WAVES: THE OUTLOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: Disaster's Damage to Economies May Be Minor

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN and JAMES BROOKE; Amy Waldman reported from Hikkaduwa, Sri Lanka, for this article, James Brooke from Phuket, Thailand, and Wayne Arnold contributed reporting from Singapore.

DATELINE: HIKKADUWA, Sri Lanka, Monday, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
To drive just a mile from the shore where a tsunami came roaring in a week ago is to feel the calm apart from the storm. 
 The coast is a tableau of battered boats, smashed hotels and residents scooping mud from what is left of their homes. The immediate interior of the country and its residents show not a scratch. 
 That surreal contrast, economists say, helps explain the perverse likelihood that one of the world's largest human disasters may have a relatively marginal economic impact. 
 In the economies of Sri Lanka, Indonesia, India, Thailand and the other affected countries, the tsunami is likely to register more as a small wave, because the two industries most heavily hit -- tourism and fishing -- make up small percentages of the overall economy. 
 It is in individual lives, as well as the countries' infrastructures, that the true cost will be felt. 
 Like many other fishermen, W. Lasanthe has known only the sea. Mr. Lasanthe, 31, who lives in Beruwala, Sri Lanka, bought his 18-foot boat two years ago for $2,500 with the help of a bank loan he is still paying off. Now the boat is gone. But even if he had a boat, he said, ''nobody wants fish now'' -- not from a sea that swallowed so many dead bodies. 
 ''No job,'' he said glumly, and no plan. Economists agree that it is the poor who will suffer, rather than the overall economy. ''It is mostly a human impact we are feeling at the moment,'' said J.G.T. Sundaram of the Board of Investment, a government agency that promotes Sri Lankan business opportunities to foreigners.
 Wing Thye Woo, a professor of economics at the University of California, Davis, said, ''It's a blip, but a blip that is concentrated among the poorest of the population.''
 Even as it has destroyed the livelihoods of millions of families in South Asia, the tsunami will shave only a few points off the region's economic growth this year. Depending on the importance of tourism in each country, the decrease is expected to range from less than 1 percent for Thailand to 2 percent for Sri Lanka and 4 percent for the Maldives, according to estimates by Standard Chartered Bank. 
 Aceh, which bore the brunt of the tsunami damage in Indonesia, accounts for only 2 percent of Indonesia's economy. The tsunami apparently did not damage the region's most lucrative properties, oil and gas production facilities. 
 Most of Aceh's population depend on agriculture for their livelihood -- rice, peanuts, soybeans, maize, cassava and potatoes. It is unclear how much agricultural land was flooded by the tsunami. 
 Sri Lanka's economy, which grew an estimated 5 percent in 2004, is still heavily agricultural, with tea, rubber and coconuts the major exports. In recent years, money sent home by one million Sri Lankan migrant workers in the Middle East -- most of them women employed as housemaids -- has become the country's largest net foreign exchange earner, one especially appealing to the government because it is not affected by tsunamis or other acts of nature. 
 Garment factories that supply stores like Victoria's Secret also employ, directly and indirectly, close to one million people. None have been affected by the tsunami. 
 Tourism and fishing together make up less than 6 percent of Sri Lanka's gross domestic product. 
 Thailand's economy is expected to grow about 6 percent in 2005, about the same as in 2004. Tourism in southern Thailand around Phuket, the only part of the country affected, accounts for about 1.3 percent of the national economy. 
 Already, much of the Phuket tourism has been rerouted to other Thai resort towns, and the damaged beach towns could well see a construction boom as up to $2 billion is expected to be invested to rebuild beachfront hotels, homes and shops. 
 But Peter Harrold, the World Bank's country director for Sri Lanka, cautioned against using gross domestic product as the only measurement of the economic impact of the disaster. The loss was huge in houses, boats, ports, hotels, clinics, roads and railways, he pointed out, and all will have to be rebuilt. 
 ''Overnight, a huge capital stock was wiped away,'' he said. 
 Most affected businesses and individuals along the rim of the Indian Ocean do not have insurance coverage for the kind of disaster they encountered a week ago. How much, or even whether, they will be compensated by their governments or through outside aid remains unclear.
 At the Ocean Plaza shopping center in Phuket, the mass of water destroyed the jewelry store, the Thai arts shop, the shoe store and the Chester's Grilled Chicken outlet. In the basement, the Big One supermarket is still filled with water and bobbing debris -- a reminder of the 30 tourists who drowned there. 
 ''The insurance company does not want to pay, so they have not even come to inspect,'' said Suthep Prabtook, the supermarket's general manager. ''They say they pay for normal water damage, but this was water damage caused by an earthquake.''
 The fishermen of Sri Lanka do not have insurance at all. Prasantha DeSilva, whose family owns the five largest fishing boats in Beruwala harbor, said the insurance premiums had been too expensive. Now, with four of their boats, which cost about $150,000 each, wrecked, they must start from scratch. 
 ''We are very badly affected -- I don't think we can stand up,'' he said. ''These are our major properties.'' 
 Each boat -- the longest is 60 feet -- employs 25 or 30 people, from fishermen to helpers. That means that until Mr. DeSilva gets new boats, more than 100 people have lost their livelihoods. All told, the 100 big boats damaged in the harbor employ more than 3,000 people, he said. 
 Sri Lanka harvests 300,000 tons of fish a year, most of it for domestic consumption, and much of it is caught by subsistence fishermen who own small 18-foot boats or catamarans. In Beruwala, more than 1,000 catamarans are gone, with the numbers even higher in the hardest-hit areas like Galle. 
 The tsunami struck during the winter tourist season, whose peak extends from December through February. Sri Lanka looked to tourism as a major area of growth. Tourism grew 11.1 percent in the first 10 months of 2004 compared with same period last year. November brought a record-breaking flow of tourists, according to the Board of Investment, with 64,971 arrivals, pushing the total for the year above 500,000.
 Hundreds of hotels were damaged or destroyed, though most of the largest and most expensive ones are largely intact. Hotels that were full when the tsunami struck are now running at 50 percent or less occupancy. No one knows how long tourists will stay away, and along with hotels, road and rail links to the south will also have to be rebuilt before the tourism industry can recover. 
 Gamani Senanaiyake, 54, the owner of Mama's Beach Hotel here, where dozens of small hotels and 75 flat-bottom boats were wiped out, predicted that tourists would not return for at least six months. ''They have to,'' he said. ''That is our main income.'' 
 The currencies and stock markets of Thailand, Malaysia and Sri Lanka did not move significantly last week. Indonesia's Jakarta Composite Index rose Tuesday and Wednesday but fell slightly on Thursday.
 Some analysts say the markets may rise on the news of the large aid commitments made to Indonesia over the New Year's holiday weekend. Other economic impacts across the region may take time to become evident. A rapprochement between separatists in Aceh and the Indonesian government in Jakarta could mean more investment to develop the riches of Aceh.
 Many economists predict a surge in the construction industry and the production of raw materials, like cement and steel, that supply it. But an influx of aid money and aid workers to help with long-term reconstruction could push prices up, as has happened in places like Afghanistan. 
 Rohan Chamindar, 26, is a lifeguard, not an economist, but he has his own prediction of how the tsunami will shape the Sri Lankan economy. The disaster, he said, was likely to propel even more women and men like him to migrate to the Middle East for work. 
 What choice did he have, he asked. His house was flattened, and the tourist season, when he made most of his money working at a hotel near Colombo, was cut short. 
 There is no work in Sri Lanka that could pay as well as his hotel job had, or, barring very specific government aid, provide enough income to finance the rebuilding of homes. ''If I work in Sri Lanka, I cannot earn enough,'' he said.
 So the tsunami, he predicted, will have an economic impact in the Middle East, too. ''They will lower the salary scale,'' he said, ''because after the disaster, so many Sri Lankans are looking for overseas jobs.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Fishermen in Beruwala, Sri Lanka, with their catch yesterday. Tsunami-related damage to the fishing industry will mainly affect the poor. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. A8)
 Indonesian soldiers and civilians accepted water from a U.S. Navy helicopter crew yesterday near the town of Meulaboh in Aceh Province. (Photo by Choo Youn-Kong/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TSUNAMIS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TRENDS (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (63%); POPULATION SIZE (57%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Earthquakes; Tidal Waves; Earthquakes; Insurance; Economic Conditions and Trends; Earthquakes

COMPANY: STANDARD CHARTERED AUSTRALIA LTD (51%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK ZIMBABWE LTD (51%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK (THAI) PCL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); US NAVY (59%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (51%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (51%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%)

PERSON: Amy Waldman; James Brooke; Peter Harrold

GEOGRAPHIC: SUMATRA, INDONESIA (93%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) SRI LANKA (95%); THAILAND (94%); INDONESIA (94%); ASIA (92%); INDIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (79%); MALDIVES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Indian Ocean; Sri Lanka; Thailand; Phuket (Thailand); Aceh Province (Indonesia); Indonesia; Sri Lanka

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2005



49 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Markets & Investing; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1555 words

HEADLINE: Globally, Stocks Are Poised to Advance Further

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
DESPITE the strongest global economic growth since the 1970's and outsized gains in corporate profits, 2004 was a decidedly ho-hum year for international stock markets, which took their cues from Wall Street. So, what will happen this year if, as expected, growth and profits ease back toward more normal rates?
 Stock prices could actually forge ahead solidly, if not spectacularly, market strategists say. Average gains of 10 percent or so are expected globally, and some regions, including Continental Europe, could do a bit better. And if the dollar declines further, as many analysts expect, American investors who put some of their money into overseas securities might do even better, once currencies are converted. It is not that investors are returning to the irrational exuberance of the late 1990's -- or even the milder wave of post-bubble optimism that washed over many global markets in 2003. But stocks in some regions remain attractively priced, at least relative to bonds, analysts say.
 ''We're not gung-ho, we're realistic,'' said Richard Batty, global investment strategist at Standard Life Investments in Edinburgh. ''But markets generally have been pricing in a more pessimistic outlook than we think is warranted.'' 
 Many global stock markets finished 2004 above where they started, but not spectacularly so. In Japan, the Nikkei index was up only 7.61 percent, despite an improved economic outlook. Morgan Stanley Capital International's index showed a better gain in Japan -- 10.9 percent, and for Americans who converted their yen-based gains into dollars, the rise was 16 percent. In Europe, stocks generally posted slightly larger gains, even as growth continued to be disappointing. In China and in Russia, stocks showed little change at the end of the year, despite strong economic growth. Morgan Stanley Capital International calculated a 2 percent rise for China. 
 The best performances were in emerging markets that benefited from a surge in commodity prices, particularly in Latin American markets like Mexico and Peru, and in some secondary European markets, including Iceland, Belgium, Norway, Austria, Hungary and Romania. Because of the fall in the dollar that accelerated toward the end of last year, American investors who ventured into foreign stock markets did considerably better than investors who used the local currencies. A local investor in the euro zone, for instance, would have seen gains of only 13.3 percent, based on a Morgan Stanley Capital International index of the region; in dollar terms, the return was 22.4 percent. 
 Morgan Stanley strategists predict gains of 8 percent in European stocks next year, based on share prices in mid-December. They see solid double-digit gains in Japan, with the Topix index, which finished 2004 at 1,149.63, rising to near 1,300 by the end of this year.
 At Lehman Brothers, analysts are less enthusiastic about Japan, but see comparable gains in Europe. With dividends reinvested and including the effects of an additional 5 percent drop in the dollar against the euro, which they predict for this year, gains for American investors in euro-denominated shares could reach double digits. Other analysts, too, point to the euro zone as one of the most promising areas for share price growth.
 To be sure, the dollar is one of several variables that make predicting share prices as dicey as ever. If it continues to fall, as many analysts expect, given the size of the United States' current account deficit, that could put upward pressure on inflation, prompting the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates more aggressively than it did in 2004. A weaker dollar could also lead to a renewed increase in oil prices, because oil is traded globally in dollars.
 Though oil prices eased in December, ending the year at $43.35 a barrel, after passing $55 in October, a combination of continuing high prices and tighter monetary policy in the United States might slow global economic growth by curbing American demand for imports. Economists generally expect global growth to ease from rates near 5 percent last year to 3.5 percent to 4 percent this year, with a slight uptick in inflation. The combination makes some analysts wary about prospects for global stock markets.
 ''We've moved from above-trend growth and below-trend inflation to above trend in both,'' said Tim Bond, a strategist at Barclays Capital here. ''That's negative for almost every asset class, except perhaps commodities.''
 Nonetheless, investors seem to be prepared to give stocks a chance. A Merrill Lynch survey of global fund managers in December showed that 77 percent expected equities to do better than bonds or cash this year. The managers were particularly bearish on bonds, which fall in price when interest rates are on the rise.
 Continued strength in corporate earnings should provide some support for share prices, analysts say. Last year, companies in the United States, Europe and even Japan reaped the benefits of several years of cutting costs. As strong economic growth drove demand higher, profits of companies in the MSCI All-Country World index, a broad gauge of global stock prices, were on track for an annual increase of 25 percent, analysts at Morgan Stanley said. This year, they expect less impressive gains of 8 percent, just above the long-term trend of 7 percent.
 Given that Europe has borne the brunt of the dollar's slide, with a rising euro making the region's exports less competitive, analysts' relative optimism about European stocks may seem surprising. But euro zone stocks are priced attractively, with price-to-earnings ratios around 14 percent, compared with about 16 percent for stocks globally.
 European corporate profits are also expected to hold up fairly well, despite the strong euro. Companies seem to be suffering less than might seem likely, given policy makers' noisy laments about the weak dollar.
 There are several reasons for this. European companies, like their American counterparts, have grown extremely frugal about capital expenditures, after the spree of the bubble years. And, particularly in Germany, long known for high labor costs, several big manufacturers have cited the threat of low-wage competition from new European Union members in the east and won concessions from workers.
 Overall, hourly labor costs in the euro zone grew by only 2 percent in the third quarter of 2004, compared with a year earlier, the lowest increase since 1998.
 ''The unions seem to be getting more pragmatic,'' Mr. Batty said. ''They realize things are changing. From a stock market point of view, this is great news.''
 As always, optimism about Europe needs to be tempered, analysts say. Some worry about the effects of a shift to new international accounting standards, which is required for all publicly traded companies in the European Union by the end of this year. One result could be increased volatility in reported earnings.
 And the euro zone economy, which analysts at ABN Amro say will grow by only 1.5 percent this year, after 1.8 percent growth in 2004, could slow even further, particularly if consumer spending continues to stagnate.
 Possible weakness in consumer spending could also hurt Britain, which remains outside the euro zone and has enjoyed several years of strength compared with its neighbors. Analysts worry that a boom in housing prices, which has fueled consumer spending, may be over, with prices already easing slightly in recent months. Nevertheless, most analysts are optimistic about the outlook for British stocks, which were rising at the end of last year, bolstered by banking issues. 
 Many analysts expect the Japanese economy to slow, too, after a solid 2004; Morgan Stanley predicts 0.5 percent growth, after 4 percent last year. That makes many strategists wary about prospects both for Japanese stocks, which have not drawn much strength from improved corporate finances, and the overall economy after more than a decade of recessionlike conditions.
 Some analysts, however, see an opportunity in Japan for patient investors. A slowdown in the growth of corporate profits -- analysts expect that once the numbers are in for 2004, they will show profit growth of 60 percent -- seems inevitable, but it will not prevent a longer-term recovery from taking hold. ''We think the market will begin recognizing that Japan has taken the first step toward returning to normal,'' said Naoki Kamiyama, a strategist at Morgan Stanley, in a note to investors.
 Elsewhere in Asia, all eyes remain on China. A mild slowdown in that country's runaway growth rate, and a possible easing of the currency's tie to the dollar, could put pressure on shares, which performed poorly last year. Analysts say other Asian markets, particularly those with heavy exposure to technology stocks, like South Korea and Taiwan, might do better, though.
 And other emerging markets, especially those that have benefited from a global surge in commodity prices, could continue to power ahead, strategists say. Many South American markets, for instance, have enjoyed a period of relative political and financial stability, and resource-rich countries like Brazil have fared particularly well.
 Over all, said Mr. Bond at Barclays Capital, ''equities globally are well placed against bonds, but it will be a year of modest returns.''


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Stock Markets Gain Around the Globe''Total returns as measured by Morgan Stanley Capital International indexes, in local currencies and dollars, plotted weekly.Graph tracks All-country stock index excluding the U.S.Dollar -- 21.4%Others* -- 13.1Graph tracks the stock index for Britain.Dollar -- 19.6%Pound -- 11.5Graph tracks the stock index for Europe excluding Britain.Dollar -- 22.4%Euro -- 13.3Graph tracks the stock index for Japan.Dollar -- 16.0%Yen -- 10.9Graph tracks the stock index for China. The yuan is pegged to the dollar.Dollar -- 1.9%Yuan -- 2.0Graph tracks Emerging markets.Dollar -- 26.0%Others* -- 16.5*Weighted average of currencies relevant to the stocks in the indexes(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); MONETARY UNIONS (70%) Stocks and Bonds; Two Thousand Four (Year); two thousand five (year)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: Eric Pfanner

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (59%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (55%) EUROPE (96%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NORWAY (79%); HUNGARY (79%); BELGIUM (79%); ICELAND (57%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2005



50 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Markets & Investing; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1659 words

HEADLINE: After the Fall: Measured Moves

BYLINE: By RIVA D. ATLAS

 BODY:
FIVE years after the bull market, individual investors are approaching stocks gingerly.
 A recent survey of 1,100 people who own stocks or stock mutual funds, by the National Association of Investors Corporation, found that half of those polled thought stocks were worth buying. But an increasing number of investors were shifting into less risky investments -- 40 percent, up from 34 percent in early 2004.
 It is no wonder that investors are uneasy, given the volatility of stocks over the last five years. 
 Stocks fared poorly in 2000 through 2002, then rallied sharply in 2003, when the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 26.4 percent. Then stocks slumped for most of 2004, falling as much as 4 percent. But at the end of October, stocks rebounded, and the S.&P. ended the year up 8.99 percent. 
 Despite recent increases, ''People are finding their performance still hasn't recovered from the lows,'' said Eleanor Blayney, a financial planner in McLean, Va. ''Anyone looking at five-year returns is seeing numbers that are still negative.'' 
 The market's gyrations mean that investing is no longer the popular hobby that it once was. Subscriptions to personal finance magazines are down, and the number of investment clubs started by individuals has declined from a peak of 37,000 clubs in 1998 to 21,000 as of June, according to the association of investment clubs.
 Stock buyers are taking a more conservative approach. Value funds, which favor stocks trading at a discount to their worth, attracted $65 billion last year through November, according to the Financial Research Corporation, a research firm in Boston. That compares with outflows of $10 billion during the same period from growth funds, which focus on companies whose revenues are expected to grow rapidly. 
 The response of investors to the market's fluctuations varies with age, temperament and financial circumstance. What follows are five profiles of people who are struggling to find a balanced approach to investing at an unpredictable time.

Holding Too Long
 John Vitell is a victim of his own success.
 Mr. Vitell, 57, a teacher of Zen meditation from Ridgewood, N.J., has traded technology stocks from his home since 2001. Until recently, he held most of his family's liquid assets in a concentrated portfolio of four or five stocks. Because he focuses on just a few stocks, Mr. Vitell says he can make more informed bets, taking advantage of sell-offs in the shares, for example, that are not tied to any fundamental change in the companies' prospects.
 Over all, Mr. Vitell has done well. He tripled his money on Akamai Technologies, a company that speeds up delivery of Web pages. He accumulated a position for which he had paid an average of $6 a share as of October 2003. The investment did so well that it came to consume more than half the value of Mr. Vitell's portfolio.
 Akamai's shares hit a high of $18.47 in June, but Mr. Vitell was reluctant to sell. Capital gains on investments held less than a year are taxed as ordinary income, at rates as high as 35 percent. 
 When technology stocks fell sharply last summer, Mr. Vitell, who had borrowed against the value of his stock portfolio, had to sell the rest of his holdings, in Apple Computer, Lucent, Pixar and XM Satellite Radio. 
 With the election approaching and concerns rising about a potential terrorist attack, Mr. Vitell worried that the market would drop much more, leading to margin calls. ''We would have been in dire straits,'' said Mr. Vitell, who has two sons, ages 2 and 13. 
 He is hoping that Akamai's stock will revive to $20 a share or so in the next six months. If that happens, he plans to sell part of his holdings and hold a diversified portfolio of stocks for the long term. ''I'm not going to hold that much margin anymore,'' he said.

Cautiously Pessimistic
 After three years of keeping thousands of dollars in a money market account at T. Rowe Price, Dorothy Brooks was frustrated. 
 Ms. Brooks, a retired teacher in Waterford, Wis., had been earning as little as 0.5 percent a year on her money. In October, feeling somewhat more optimistic about the market, she shifted $50,000 into a stock fund. 
 The fund she chose, T. Rowe Price Equity Income fund, had a total return of 15.05 percent in 2004. ''They invest in companies that pay dividends,'' Ms. Brooks said. ''That is a big draw.'' 
 Ms. Brooks, 80, had shifted out of several stock funds in spring 2001, after shares fell sharply.
 Meanwhile, she watched as investments in her more conservatively managed value-stock funds held up better in the market's decline. She holds shares in Vanguard's Windsor II fund, for example, in an Individual Retirement Account. The fund had a total return last year of 18.3 percent and an average annualized return of 8.56 percent over the last three years, 5.03 points ahead of the total return on the S.&P. 500.
 Ms. Brooks remains cautious. She holds ''a much larger sum'' in a savings account, paying 1.5 percent a year, at a credit union near her old home in Nevada, she said. ''I think about whether I should move it all the time,'' she said. ''But right now, with the national debt so high, I don't feel very optimistic.'' 

Day Trader Is Chastened
 H. Tom Kight III is a reformed day trader.
 In the fall of 2000, he lost $80,000 overnight, in a telecommunications company called Copper Mountain Networks. That led Mr. Kight, whose primary source of income is the oil and gas interests he has invested in for 30 years, to reduce his stock trading from as many as 75 trades a week to just a handful.
 ''There is an old saying, that greed is a limitation on a man's own intellect,'' Mr. Kight said. ''The market is a hobby for me.''
 Mr. Kight, 65, of Oklahoma City, has been fascinated by stocks from the time he got a tip from an oil industry executive at age 16 and doubled his money within six months. ''I felt like I was John Paul Getty,'' he said.
 Fast-forward more than 40 years: Mr. Kight was spending his days at a firm catering to day traders. He took a stock portfolio initially worth $40,000 up to $170,000 in less than two years. Then, in late 2000, the market went against him.
 ''I had 5,000 shares of Copper Mountain, at $26 a share,'' Mr. Kight said. ''Then one morning I walked in and the stock is at $9.'' When Copper Mountain rallied to $10, Mr. Kight quickly sold, and then watched the stock fall to less than $1 a share. Adjusted for a reverse split of 10:1 in 2002, it now trades at 27 cents.
 The huge loss caused Mr. Kight to trade less actively over the last four years. But by the end of the 2004, he started to miss the action. ''I'm a little bored, and I miss the challenge of the markets,'' he said. ''If I lost $50,000, it wouldn't change my lifestyle.'' 

Enjoying the Bumpy Ride
 The markets have been rocky, but the four members of the Fiscal Fitness Club still enjoy stock-picking. The investment club, whose members are professional women in the New York area, is going strong. ''We've all at least doubled our investment in five years or less,'' even after taking those losses into account, said Merritt Konort, a graphic artist. ''The market always comes back.''
 But the members have learned from the market's recent ups and downs. They were too quick to sell Tyco, for example, said Karen Brady, a club co-founder and a fund-raiser for Saint Vincent's Hospital Manhattan. Shares of Tyco, the scandal-ridden conglomerate, have nearly tripled from the price when the club sold its shares in October 2002. 
 The average investment club lasts only four years, but Fiscal Fitness has been around for more than twice as long -- although the number of members has dropped from 15 to 4. The club holds nine stocks, including its first purchase, Home Depot.
 ''We try to invest in companies whose products we use,'' said Mary Granger, a union representative. Other holdings include Whole Foods, Jones Apparel and Lions Gate, a filmmaker whose movies the members enjoyed. They also own Medtronic, a medical devices maker.
 ''We don't trade a lot,'' Ms. Brady said at the club's year-end meeting last month at the Algonquin Hotel in Manhattan. Still, when stocks declined in 2000, the women saw large paper profits in technology stocks like Sun Microsystems and Cisco Systems evaporate.
 ''It was devastating,'' Ms. Konort said. ''We didn't realize that when you have something that's really increased in value you should sell it.'' The club is now about at the break-even point on Sun, but its investment in Cisco is down 50 percent from what it paid. ''We didn't learn that from eBay,'' countered Lynne Burns Atkins, a photographer, noting that shares of that company have tripled since the club bought the stock two years ago.
 Ms. Konort responded, ''Maybe we should sell some.'' 

Proceeding With Care
 As a pilot for Delta Air Lines, Bill Palmer gets an early read on the direction of the economy. Like the rest of the airlines, Delta has been confronted with higher fuel prices, and the company avoided a bankruptcy filing in the fall by getting pilots to accept a cut in pay. 
 ''Certainly, the industry I'm in means I'm more aware of what's going on,'' said Mr. Palmer, 56, of Englewood, Colo. It also means ''that I tend to be a less aggressive investor,'' he said.
 Mr. Palmer shifted about $100,000 -- a combination of college funds for his two children, ages 13 and 16, and his own savings -- out of growth stock mutual funds and into money market funds as early as 1997, when stocks were still soaring. Last December, after a strong recovery in stocks, Mr. Palmer felt a little less nervous. He shifted the money out of short-term investments and back into the stock market. But, he has favored more conservative value funds, like Dodge & Cox Stock and Longleaf Partners. 
 ''There are too many variables out there,'' Mr. Palmer said, citing terrorism fears and rising interest rates. ''There's reason for cautious optimism, but not putting your foot to the floor and going for it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, Lynne Burns Atkins, Karen Brady and Merritt Konort are in an investment club that favors stocks of companies whose products they use. (Photo by Diane Bondareff for The New York Times)
JOHN VITELL -- A teacher of Zen meditation who learned the hard way about having his portfolio heavily concentrated in a single stock. (Photo by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)
BILL PALMER -- A Delta Air Lines pilot who has taken a conservative approach in his investments. (Photo by Steve Peterson for The New York Times)
DOROTHY BROOKS -- A retired teacher who took cash from a money market account and put it in a stock mutual fund. (Photo by Miriam Sushman for The New York Times)
MERRITT KONORT -- A member of the Fiscal Fitness Club, referring to losses on technology holdings in 2000. The club's portfolio has since bounced back.
 H. TOM KIGHT III -- A reformed day trader who has been trading less actively during the last four years. (Photo by Paul Hellstern for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (73%); CONSERVATISM (64%); MEDITATION (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Biographical Information

COMPANY: AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INVESTORS CORP (84%)

TICKER: AKAM (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: John Vitell; Merritt Konort; Dorothy Brooks; Bill Palmer; H Tom 3d Knight; Riva D Atlas

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2005



51 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Markets & Investing; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: As Geopolitics Takes Hold, Cheap Oil Recedes Into Past

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
IT was a year that people in the oil markets are unlikely to forget -- a year that prices set records, forecasts lost touch with reality, and almost everything that could go wrong, did. It was also a year that politics returned to the oil market.
 And the trend is likely to continue this year. While oil prices have declined since October, many of the issues that have vexed the oil industry in 2004 are expected to recur. Cheap oil increasingly looks like a thing of the past. 
 Through the 1990's, prices were stable, supplies were secure and there was plenty of extra capacity to keep energy costs low and world growth buzzing. At an average of $20 a barrel, oil was viewed as just another commodity. 
 But then came ethnic and labor troubles in Nigeria; chaos and protests in Venezuela before President Hugo Chavez won a referendum allowing him to stay in power; hardball energy politics in Russia; and the continuing insurgency in Iraq. 
 While supplies of oil to the world markets were rarely interrupted, the uncertainties created by these events raised crude oil prices in New York by two-thirds this year, to a high of more than $55 a barrel in October. And as energy costs surged, many analysts, traders and politicians woke up to the reality that oil was different from cocoa or coffee. 
 ''Oil is a political commodity,'' said Robert Mabro, president of the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies, one of the world's foremost energy experts. ''Geopolitics is the most fundamental issue if you're looking at oil markets. People seem to have forgotten that since the 1980's.''
 Of course, this is not the first time that oil and politics have mixed. 
 Decades ago, militant governments in Iran and Libya, for example, nationalized their oil sectors, forcing American and European companies out and taking charge of their natural resources. Then came the oil embargo and the price shocks of 1973-74 and 1978-81, with long lines for gasoline and steep rises in inflation.
 But for the most part, politics had dropped off the energy map since then. In the 1980's, energy experts largely discounted a war between two of the Persian Gulf's top oil producers, Iran and Iraq, because Saudi Arabia and some other OPEC nations could simply crank up their production to make up for losses.
 Even the invasion of Kuwait by Iraq in the summer of 1990, and the subsequent embargo on their oil exports, roiled energy markets for only a few weeks.
 But in recent years, the oil industry has undergone a fundamental change. While demand has steadily increased each year, the industry's exploration efforts have not kept pace in new discoveries. 
 Now that worldwide production is running at full speed to meet increased demand, there is no cushion left in the system to weather a potential blow to producers like Iraq, Venezuela, Iran, Russia or Nigeria. 
 So, once again for oil markets, politics matters. 
 For instance, said Amy Myers Jaffe, the associate director of Rice University's energy program, Saudi Arabia's oil industry is no longer seen as being impenetrable to terrorist attacks; tensions in the Persian Gulf could swell over Iran's nuclear program; Nigerian factions may erupt in violence; and the fighting in Iraq goes on.
 ''All kinds of things can affect this market,'' Ms. Jaffe said, ''especially when you're in a razor-thin situation. The only thing that could dramatically alter the outlook is a major economic recession.'' 
 The heightened geopolitical risk has translated into higher prices, something analysts call a ''risk premium.'' Crude oil prices have averaged $30 a barrel since 2000, but last year crude oil in New York climbed to an average of $41 a barrel. While energy prices are high, adjusted for inflation they are below the level in March 1981, when crude oil approached $70 a barrel in today's dollars. Still, analysts do not expect prices to fall anytime soon.
 High world prices since mid-2002 have helped sustain the economic recovery of Russia, which is raising output, according to the Energy Information Agency of the Department of Energy.
 The former Soviet Union, of which Russia is by far the biggest country, is the world's largest producer, the agency says, followed by Saudi Arabia and the United States. The biggest consumers are the United States, which imports over half its needs; China; Japan; and the former Soviet Union, which uses about a third as much as it produces. Leo Drollas, chief economist for the Center for Global Energy Studies in London, expects oil prices to be higher in 2005, on average, than they have been this year. The institute was founded in 1990 by Sheik Ahmed Zaki Yamani, the former Saudi oil minister.
 Even oil companies, which are usually extremely conservative about their price outlook, are coming around to that realization. Lord Browne, the chief executive of BP, now sees a new bottom of $30 a barrel for the next few years.
 ''There is something fundamental holding prices up, whether that's at $45, $40 or $35 a barrel,'' Mr. Mabro of the Oxford Institute said. ''And politics won't improve things. Except if you believe a miracle is going to happen in Iraq.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Disruptions like this fire -- at a pipeline that saboteurs blew up last August near Basra, Iraq -- heightened global fears, adding a ''risk premium'' to pricing. (Photo by Nabil al-Jurani/Associated Press)Chart: ''For Now, Oil Needs Are Being Met...''Millions of barrels a day, second quarter 2004TOP OIL PRODUCERSFormer Soviet Union -- 11.2Saudi Arabia -- 8.8United States -- 8.8North Sea* -- 5.7Iran -- 4.0Mexico -- 3.9China -- 3.6Canada -- 3.1Nigeria -- 2.6Venezuela -- 2.5TOP OIL CONSUMERSUnited States -- 20.3China -- 6.6Japan -- 5.0Former Soviet Union -- 3.9Germany -- 2.5Canada -- 2.3Mexico -- 2.3South Korea -- 2.0France -- 2.0Britain -- 1.9*Britain, Norway, Denmark, the Netherlands and Germany drill there....But Demands Are Likely to GrowIf recent trends continue, United States demand for oil is projected to grow steadily over the next 20 years, but domestic production is not, creating a worrisome shortfall.Graph tracks Total U.S. petroleum production* and Total U.S. petroleum consumption since 1970.*Includes crude oil, natural gas plant liquids (butane, methane, etc.), refining processing gain (the increase in volume when crude oil is processed) and other liquids (for example, ethanol blended into gasoline).(Source by Energy Information Administration)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); POLITICS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); EXPORT TRADE (64%); NATIONALIZATION (62%); REFERENDUMS (53%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Production; Two Thousand Four (Year); Two Thouand Five (Year); International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (58%) Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); NIGERIA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); GULF STATES (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); NORWAY (79%); KUWAIT (79%); DENMARK (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); FRANCE (67%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2005



52 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Average Manhattan Apartment Remains Over $1 Million

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
For the third consecutive quarter, the average sales price of an apartment in most of Manhattan breached the $1 million barrier, although it slipped slightly from the previous quarter, according to an appraiser's report scheduled for release today.
 The average sales price of $1.04 million in the last three months of 2004 was 2.6 percent below the $1.07 million average in the third quarter, but was still 15.3 percent above the quarterly average of $903,259 a year earlier, according to the Prudential Douglas Elliman Manhattan Market Overview, which surveys the real estate market below 96th Street on the East Side and below 116th Street on the West.
 And apartments became even scarcer, with the number of available listings falling more than 23 percent from the previous quarter, the report said.
 Jonathan Miller, president of Miller Samuel, the appraisal firm that prepared the Elliman report, said jitters about the presidential election and concerns about increases in interest rates had led some buyers to hold back, which dampened prices in the final quarter. ''Some people were reluctant to pull the trigger during the election, especially in the first month of the quarter, in October,'' Mr. Miller said on Friday. Indeed, according to the report, the number of sales during the quarter dropped 15 percent from the previous quarter, to 1,987 from 2,337. 
 Dottie Herman, chief executive of Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate, said sale prices traditionally dip in the last quarter. ''I didn't see any red flags'' for 2005, she said.
 In fact, according to the Elliman report, the median price -- the exact midpoint -- rose 2.3 percent to $670,000 in the last three months of 2004, a 15.5 percent increase over the last quarter a year ago. But the average sales price of luxury apartments -- defined as those in the top 10 percent of all sales -- fell 10.7 percent, to $3.67 million. Mr. Miller said one reason was that the average square footage of those apartments was down 7.4 percent, to 2,690 square feet. Average prices were still 15 percent above the same period in 2003. 
 Ms. Herman said she expected prices to rise again this year, though perhaps not as significantly as in the past few years. She said demographic trends would continue to drive New York real estate, with empty nesters from the suburbs, families choosing to stay in Manhattan and European investors taking advantage of the strength of the euro all vying for the supply of apartments.
 The number of co-ops and condos available for sale dropped 23.3 percent to 3,922 units in the final quarter of 2004, down from 5,112 units in the third quarter. That was the sharpest quarterly decrease in available listings in four years, Mr. Miller said. 
 The slim pickings led some buyers to get creative. A couple represented by Louise Phillips Forbes, a broker with Halstead Property in Manhattan, were looking for a three-bedroom apartment on the Upper West Side, but found little to entice them. 
 When they realized that their best choices were a $3 million apartment on Riverside Drive that Ms. Forbes said needed a ''complete face-lift,'' or a three-bedroom apartment in what she described as a ''B building'' on 72nd Street, the couple, who already own a one-bedroom apartment, offered $1.45 million last week to the owner of the two-bedroom apartment next to them, which they plan to combine with their apartment. Ms. Forbes said the couple would pay a 30 percent premium over comparable sales prices in the building. 
 Full-year figures from the Corcoran Group, one of the largest real estate brokers in Manhattan, showed that sales price appreciation was particularly strong downtown, as well as in emerging residential areas like Midtown East and Midtown West, defined as the neighborhoods between 34th and 57th Streets.
 Pamela Liebman, chief executive of the Corcoran Group, said, ''A lot of buyers were flocking to Midtown East and Midtown West because they are priced out of the traditional Upper West Side or Upper East Side neighborhoods.''
 Average yearly sales prices were up 20 percent in Midtown East, and 21 percent in Midtown West. Downtown prices were driven up by new condo developments offering luxury amenities, attracting buyers who might have previously stayed uptown. According to Corcoran, the average sales price of downtown condos increased 23 percent to $924,000. Average loft prices rose 35 percent to $1.49 million.
 Reid Price, a broker with Corcoran who sold 28 loft apartments in the Hubert, a new luxury condo development in TriBeCa, said, ''I think that it brought a lot of buyers from uptown as well as people who were empty nesters from Connecticut who were looking for a lifestyle change.''
 Sellers enjoyed price increases in the boroughs outside Manhattan, too. Average sales prices in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, increased 35 percent in this year compared with 2003, according to the Corcoran report.
 Fort Greene ''has been infiltrated at an unprecedented level'' by buyers and developers from Manhattan, said Jerry Minsky, a Corcoran broker. Mr. Minsky said that in December he helped to sell 18 apartments, including a $1.2 million penthouse, in the GreeneHouse, a luxury condo in Fort Greene. Prices, which started at $600 per square foot, increased to $845 per square foot by the end of the month. Mr. Minsky said he also sold a three-family brownstone town house for $2.15 million in December. He said he believed that this was the first sale of a private residence in Fort Greene for more than $2 million.
 Meanwhile, renters are getting hit with higher rents. According to a report from Citi Habitats, a residential real estate brokerage firm, average Manhattan rents increased to $2,397 in 2004, from $2,334 in 2003.
 More significantly, said Andrew Heiberger, president of Citi Habitats, landlord concessions like a month's free rent and assistance with broker fees were disappearing. Mr. Heiberger said that of 1,300 buildings tracked by Citi Habitats, 150 now offered such perks, compared with 500 in 2003. Average vacancy rates in those building also dropped, from 3.25 percent at the end of 2003 to 1.55 percent at the end of 2004.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Still Strong''Quarterly sales figures for condos and co-ops in Manhattan:Graph tracks the average sales price since 2003.Graph tracks the number of sales since 2003.(Source by Prudential Douglas Elliman Manhattan Market Overview)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); TRENDS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); EMPTY NESTERS (70%); RANKINGS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: Prudential Douglas Elliman

PERSON: Motoko Rich

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2005



53 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Death of Man Hit by Train Poses a Puzzle

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE; Michael Wilson contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
A day after a man who entered a subway tunnel in Upper Manhattan was hit and killed by a No. 1 train, the police said yesterday that they were investigating whether he had been fleeing two other men who were seen running on the platform.
 The police were calling the death an accident, but said that two witnesses reported seeing two men running along the southbound platform at the station at 145th Street and Broadway about 4:30 p.m. Saturday, the same time that the victim, Leonard Hodge, ran into the tunnel and was struck.
 Family members said yesterday they were puzzled about what might have driven Mr. Hodge, 32, to his death. ''We don't know anything,'' Harold Harvey, one of his two brothers, said in an interview at their mother's apartment in the Bronx, where relatives had gathered to grieve. 
 Mr. Hodge had three children with two women, but was separated from both of them and had recently been living with his mother on Sedgwick Avenue, in Kingsbridge Heights.
 Mr. Hodge had worked at a department store and a nursing home but had mostly been unemployed in recent months, occasionally finding day jobs or temporary work, relatives said. In recent days, though, he had promised to redouble his search for permanent employment to support his children, Mr. Harvey and his other brother, Varne Powell, said. 
 According to the police, Mr. Hodge had been arrested three times, including once for assault, but they provided no further details.
 Luz Moia, the mother of two of Mr. Hodge's children, accused him of attacking her in September with a knife, following a stormy relationship and a custody battle, according to Diana Ayala, 31, Ms. Moia's sister. 
 But Ms. Ayala also said that Mr. Hodge had been a doting father and a familiar and seemingly benign figure in the neighborhood. She recalled how Mr. Hodge once chased down a hit-and-run driver who had hit a child on a bicycle and held the suspect until the police arrived. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TRAINS (90%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (78%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (78%); HIT & RUN (77%); FAMILY (75%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (73%); ARRESTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (66%) Transit Systems; Subways

PERSON: Kirk Semple; Leonard Hodge

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2005



54 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Markets & Investing; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1734 words

HEADLINE: Reacting to a Dollar With No Muscle

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
THIS is going to be the year the world learns to live with a cheaper dollar. How well it does that may have a profound effect on prospects for continued world growth. That, at least, is the predominant opinion as 2005 begins. 
 The dollar's travails dominated the market news in the year just ended and were all the more important because they influenced perceptions of other events. The big rises in gold and oil seemed larger when measured in dollars than they did when calculated in euros or yen.
 But the most important fact about currency markets in 2004 was that the dollar did not budge against the Chinese yuan, or against other Asian currencies that are effectively tied to the dollar. The big issue this year will be whether those ties are broken, and, if so, how markets and economies will react. 
 The dollar's weakness stemmed from the continued worsening of the huge trade deficits the United States was running at a time when foreigners were less than enchanted by investment opportunities in America. Still, foreigners continued to buy American bonds, and their purchases helped hold down interest rates and support share prices.
 The American stock market, which had begun a powerful recovery in October 2002, saw the momentum fade away in the spring of 2004. But it returned at the end of the year, carrying the major averages to new post-2000 highs. 
 By year's end, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 8.99 percent for 2004, and the Nasdaq composite had gained 8.59 percent. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average was the laggard, rising only 3.15 percent. It was held back by four of its members, which lost more than 20 percent of their values. Two were drug stocks, Merck and Pfizer, whose painkillers were linked to heart problems. The others were Intel, which seemed to stumble while rivals prospered, and General Motors, which continues to lose market share and faces huge bills for health care costs for retirees.
 Most American stocks are now well above their levels of March 2000, when the records were being set. That the major indexes are well below those highs is a testament to just how far the stock darlings -- largely in technology and telecommunications -- of that bull market fell in the following years. 
 Barring a dollar crisis, the economy seems likely to keep growing, and that should support share prices in 2005. For numerologists, there is the Rule of Five, which holds that the market always goes up in years ending in 5. The Dow industrials have risen more than 20 percent in every such year since the index began in 1896, with the exception of 1965, when the rise was a still respectable 10.9 percent. 
 Most indexes are well below the peaks they reached in 2000, but many investors are nonetheless sitting pretty. Most stocks in the S.&P. 500 are higher than they were when the index peaked on March 24, 2000. So are most stocks in the broader Russell 1000 index -- the 1,000 most valuable stocks in the country -- and in the Russell 2000 index -- the next 2,000 stocks in terms of capitalization. 
 Standard & Poor's computes its S.&P. 500 on the basis of market capitalization, so that Microsoft and General Electric, neither of which is close to returning to its 2000 high, are the most important stocks. But if the index were computed instead on an equal-weighted basis -- that is as if an investor put an equal amount of money into each of the 500 stocks --a very different picture would emerge.
 By that measure, the index set a record in the final week of 2003, and was onward and up this year, rising 15.2 percent, significantly better than the official index's 9 percent gain. 
 Some of those gains are reduced or even eliminated if an investor's holdings are converted from dollars into measures of value. The 9 percent gain for the S.&P. 500 would be just 4.3 percent computed in Japanese yen, or 1.3 percent in euros. And measured in the amount of gold needed to buy a basket of stocks, the gain was only 3.4 percent.
 The currency movements also mean that for American investors overseas markets generally did better than American ones. While leading European markets were up less than 10 percent in euro terms, because of the euro's appreciation they showed double-digit gains when measured in dollars.
 Even so, American investors were less interested in European stocks in the past year than in Chinese ones -- or at least in companies that could claim to benefit from the Chinese boom. Those chasing that boom in 2005 may be risking getting in at the top, but there is little indication that the urge to buy Chinese will stop.
 The arguments for the dollar to fall further in 2005 seem persuasive to most analysts. There are few signs that the American government is getting its budget or trade deficits under control, and foreigners' appetite for American assets is not limitless. But only one year ago there was a similar market consensus -- about interest rates -- that proved to be wrong. 
 It was widely thought that 2004 was to be a year of rising interest rates. With the Federal Reserve poised to raise short-term interest rates from their extraordinarily low levels, it seemed inevitable that bond yields, which had begun rising in late 2003, would continue to shoot up in both the United States and Europe. That would finally squeeze the housing market and perhaps cause a slowdown in consumption spending.
 The argument was convincing, but wrong. Short-term interest rates are higher now, but long-term rates are nearly the same. Now, points out Kerry Reilly of Bridgewater Associates, traders are expecting long-term rates to rise in 2005, but not nearly so much as they had wrongly forecast for 2004.
 The housing market lives on, with some measures showing American house prices rising at a record rate, as are American spending patterns. That is one reason the American trade deficit has risen to record levels, and that in turn is a reason for the widespread expectation that the dollar must continue to fall.
 Longer term, it is hard to see how the United States can withstand a current account deficit of more than 5 percent of gross domestic product. But, in fact, the trend can continue as long as foreigners are willing to take dollars for their cars, toys and clothing, and not insist on exchanging the dollar for other currencies. And that means they must find acceptable dollar-denominated assets in which to invest their dollars.
 A few years ago, foreigners were happy to buy American stocks, but that demand has almost vanished. In 2000, foreigners were net buyers of $458 billion of American securities, with 38 percent of that amount going into stocks. In the first 10 months of 2004, they put $746 billion into American securities, but less than one-half of 1 percent of that went into stocks.
 Contrarians could argue that is a positive indicator: foreign investors rarely show good market timing in most parts of the world, presumably for want of local knowledge. So foreigners' lack of interest in American stocks could be a sign that the stock market is not near a peak.
 But it also means that they must do something else with their dollars, and that has led to huge purchases of Treasury and corporate bonds. At first glance American bonds might seem unattractive given low interest rates and the prospect of a decline in the dollar that could more than offset the interest income for foreign holders.
 But so far foreigners' desire to keep the dollar from tumbling -- and hurting their own economies -- has led them to keep buying bonds. Asian central banks, particularly those in China and Japan, have been voracious buyers of Treasuries. 
 Those purchases have held interest rates down and encouraged American consumers, thus contributing to growth in the United States and abroad. 
 The situation has also contributed to a boom for companies that transport Asian goods to market. That can be seen in the Dow Jones transportation index, which rose 26.3 percent in 2004, even though competition and high fuel prices obliterated airline profits. Stocks showing gains of 45 percent or more included FedEx, the Burlington Northern and Norfolk Southern railroads and the J.B. Hunt and Yellow Roadway truckers.
 To say that huge American trade deficits cannot go on forever is clearly accurate. To predict when they will start to shrink, and when Asian currencies will be allowed to increase in value, is much more difficult. 
 As this year begins, huge sums have been wagered in one form or another that the Chinese will finally let their currency appreciate, no longer fixing its rate to the dollar. The Chinese have warned that they will not act as long as the speculators are active, but that warning does not appear to have deterred many who have sought to evade currency controls and acquire yuan that they expect to rise in value. When Asian currencies do increase, the cost of imported goods will rise in America, producing inflation. But it is not clear what impact that will have on the stock market. A falling dollar would make American stocks look cheaper overseas, which could stimulate buying. But a fear that the dollar would keep falling could frighten foreigners away from American stocks. 
 The lack of overseas interest in American stocks in 2004 may have helped dampen the stock market's gains, but it did not send it down. Earnings were generally strong, and Standard & Poor's reports that dividend payouts and share repurchases by companies in the S.&P. 500 set records last year. It expects operating profits for companies in the index to rise 22.5 percent in 2004, for the best annual showing since 1988, and says profits are likely to keep growing, albeit at a slower pace, in 2005. 
 Investors showed their faith in corporate growth by displaying enthusiasm for new issues in 2004. Google, the most highly awaited offering of the year, ended the year up 127 percent from its offering price.
 The best performing new issue in Europe was Imperial Energy, a British company that has oil assets in Siberia. It is losing money, but its shares have risen 766 percent since it went public in April. In the United States, the best-performing new issues were Chinese companies that rose more than 250 percent. One, Shanda Interactive, is an online game company. The other, 51job, is an employment service.
 Even in markets in Europe and America, in other words, speculation is concentrated on Asia as 2005 begins.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustration by Martin Kozlowski)Chart: ''Record Highs''Most American stocks are above where they were when the major stock market averages peaked in 2000, even though most indexes, below, are off their highs. If the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks were calculated with each stock given an equal weight, at right, the added weighting normally given stocks of big companies would be taken away and the index level would be well above its peak in 2000.Graph tracks Traditional S.& P. 500 Index
Weighted by market capitalization and S.& P. 500 Index with equally weighted stocks since 2000.The large percentage of individual stocks that are above their price on March 24, 2000, when the S.& P. 500 index set its peak......are within many indexes that are still down from that peakHere is how the stocks and indexes fared in 2004Dow Jones transportationSHARE OF STOCKS WITHIN INDEXES THAT HAVE GAINED* -- 75%CHANGE IN INDEX -- up +41.3%STOCKS WITH GAINS* -- 75%INDEX OVER ALL -- up +26.3%Russell 1000SHARE OF STOCKS WITHIN INDEXES THAT HAVE GAINED* -- 73CHANGE IN INDEX -- down -20.1STOCKS WITH GAINS* -- 72INDEX OVER ALL -- up +9.5Russell 2000SHARE OF STOCKS WITHIN INDEXES THAT HAVE GAINED* -- 66CHANGE IN INDEX -- up +13.4STOCKS WITH GAINS* -- 68INDEX OVER ALL -- up +17.0S.& P. 500SHARE OF STOCKS WITHIN INDEXES THAT HAVE GAINED* -- 66CHANGE IN INDEX -- down -20.7STOCKS WITH GAINS* -- 76INDEX OVER ALL -- up +9.0S.& P. 100SHARE OF STOCKS WITHIN INDEXES THAT HAVE GAINED* -- 48CHANGE IN INDEX -- down -30.9STOCKS WITH GAINS* -- 72INDEX OVER ALL -- up +4.5Nasdaq 100SHARE OF STOCKS WITHIN INDEXES THAT HAVE GAINED* -- 40CHANGE IN INDEX -- down -65.4STOCKS WITH GAINS* -- 66INDEX OVER ALL -- up +10.4Dow Jones industrialsSHARE OF STOCKS WITHIN INDEXES THAT HAVE GAINED* -- 33CHANGE IN INDEX -- down -3.0STOCKS WITH GAINS* -- 57INDEX OVER ALL -- up +3.1Change in the value of selected companies since...StarbucksMarch 24, 2000 -- +223%Dec. 31, 2003 -- +88%Altria formerly Philip MorrisMarch 24, 2000 -- +208Dec. 31, 2003 -- +12Norfolk SouthernMarch 24, 2000 -- +154Dec. 31, 2003 -- +53CaterpillarMarch 24, 2000 -- +147Dec. 31, 2003 -- +17Procter & GambleMarch 24, 2000 -- +97Dec. 31, 2003 -- +10EbayMarch 24, 2000 -- +91Dec. 31, 2003 -- +80Johnson & JohnsonMarch 24, 2000 -- +76Dec. 31, 2003 -- +23SearsMarch 24, 2000 -- +68Dec. 31, 2003 -- +12Exxon MobilMarch 24, 2000 -- +33Dec. 31, 2003 -- +25HalliburtonMarch 24, 2000 -- +1Dec. 31, 2003 -- +51Wal-MartMarch 24, 2000 -- -5Dec. 31, 2003 -- 0Coca-ColaMarch 24, 2000 -- -11Dec. 31, 2003 -- -18General ElectricMarch 24, 2000 -- -31Dec. 31, 2003 -- +18DisneyMarch 24, 2000 -- -33Dec. 31, 2003 -- +19Home DepotMarch 24, 2000 -- -34Dec. 31, 2003 -- +20Amazon.comMarch 24, 2000 -- -39Dec. 31, 2003 -- -16MerckMarch 24, 2000 -- -45Dec. 31, 2003 -- -30MicrosoftMarch 24, 2000 -- -52Dec. 31, 2003 -- -2General MotorsMarch 24, 2000 -- -53Dec. 31, 2003 -- -25YahooMarch 24, 2000 -- -61Dec. 31, 2003 -- +67Hewlett PackardMarch 24, 2000 -- -62Dec. 31, 2003 -- -9IntelMarch 24, 2000 -- -66Dec. 31, 2003 -- -27OracleMarch 24, 2000 -- -68Dec. 31, 2003 -- +4CiscoMarch 24, 2000 -- -76Dec. 31, 2003 -- -20LucentMarch 24, 2000 -- -92Dec. 31, 2003 -- +32*Figures include only stocks for which the history is available. Stocks are those currently in each index, whether or not they were in the index at the beginning of the period.(Sources by Standard & Poors
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C5)Graph: ''Gauging a Market With Different Instruments''When a currency is under attack, it may not make sense to use it as a measure for other things: a rise in their value may just indicate that the currency is losing value. But if the dollar is not to be trusted, what is the appropriate substitute? This chart translates the performance of the S.& P. 500 index over the past 25 years into three other standards.Graph tracks S. & P. 500 Index since 1980. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); CURRENCIES (91%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); TRENDS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); MARKET SHARE (56%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (53%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (50%) Currency; Economic Conditions and Trends; Stocks and Bonds; Two Thousand Four (Year); Foreign Investments; Currency

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (53%); INTEL CORP (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (53%); PFEB (BRU) (53%); PFE (NYSE) (53%); INTC (NASDAQ) (53%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2005



55 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Gets Endorsement From an Influential Black Minister

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg traveled to the Allen A.M.E. Church in Jamaica, Queens, yesterday to accept the endorsement of Allen's influential pastor, the Rev. Floyd H. Flake, a former Democratic congressman who backed Mr. Bloomberg's opponent, Mark Green, in 2001. 
 Mr. Flake said he was backing Mr. Bloomberg because of his record of improving the city's schools and his leadership in the years since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
 ''I like the mayor because he just goes about the business of doing his work,'' Mr. Flake said at a news conference, held after the church service at a nearby center for the elderly. ''He has not pandered to blacks, to whites, to Jews or any race. He has stood firm and spoken on behalf of the citizens of New York. He is the best representative, I think, that we could possibly have.''
 For his part, Mr. Bloomberg was content to bask in Mr. Flake's kind words. He did not take any questions, and made only a few remarks.
 ''I'm not quite sure what to say,'' the mayor said. ''I'll start with, 'Thank you.' I said to the reverend when he told me he was going to endorse me -- I didn't call him and ask him; he called me -- I said, 'All I can promise you is I will work as hard as I possibly can and do what I think is right.'''
 Nowhere is Mr. Bloomberg's awkward connection to nonwhite voters more evident than on his visits to the city's black churches, where he almost always sits placidly, hands folded on his lap, as everyone around him leaps and sways to gospel music.
 Yesterday, sitting in the front pew at Allen, Mr. Bloomberg, once again, was the last one on his feet clapping to the beat. But politically, at least, he seemed to find his rhythm with Mr. Flake's endorsement.
 Mr. Flake's announcement was not surprising; the minister had signaled that it was coming two years ago during an earlier visit to Allen by the mayor, who, only half-jokingly, called it ''my first endorsement for re-election.'' But it was significant nonetheless, given that Mr. Bloomberg has struggled to improve his standing among nonwhites since getting about 25 percent of the black vote in 2001. According to a recent Marist poll, Mr. Bloomberg received a 52 percent approval rating among whites, but only a 36 percent rating among blacks.
 Douglas A. Muzzio, a professor of political science at Baruch College, said Mr. Flake's endorsement signaled that Mr. Bloomberg was not content to cede the votes of African-American and Hispanic New Yorkers to the Democrats.
 ''Clearly, he needs to cut into that vote,'' Mr. Muzzio said. ''He needs to pick off votes, and the middle-class, homeowning black voter in Queens and other places in the city is a ripe target for the mayor.''
 Democrats seeking the nomination include Charles Barron, a city councilman from Brooklyn; Fernando Ferrer, a former Bronx borough president; C. Virginia Fields, the Manhattan borough president; Gifford Miller, the speaker of the City Council; and Representative Anthony D. Weiner. In addition, Steve Shaw, an investment banker from Manhattan, has announced his intention to challenge Mr. Bloomberg for the Republican nomination.
 For Mr. Flake, who endorsed Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani in 1997, backing a Republican candidate is nothing new. His sermons are heavy on the same theme of personal responsibility that Mr. Bloomberg likes to hit upon, as the mayor did again yesterday during remarks to worshipers at the church, where his promise to crack down on disruptive students in city schools drew loud applause.
 Mr. Flake credited the mayor's ''business acumen'' for helping the city come through the economic downturn following Sept. 11, 2001, and said there were lessons for black voters in Mr. Bloomberg's emphasis on private initiatives and management style, as opposed to continued reliance on government programs.
 ''We can no longer as a people, and I'm speaking specifically now to African-American people,'' Mr. Flake said, ''consider our plight and our future to be merely one where we will get what we want based on social and political processes. There must be an understanding of economics, and I don't think that anyone who will enter this race or is in this race has the ability to see the economic realities of this city better than the mayor who stands beside me today.''
 Mr. Flake's warm endorsement was also leavened with a dose of pragmatism: He openly thanked Mr. Bloomberg for his support of major redevelopment projects sponsored by Mr. Flake's church, including $1.8 million in city housing funds, awarded last fall, for a housing and retail development in Jamaica, and zoning approvals needed for construction of the senior center where the press conference was held.
 ''The mayor's office, as you know, is one that can have a lot of impact,'' Mr. Flake said, adding, ''We just praise God for the opportunity to be an instrument that the mayor can use to help better the community and better the city.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg with the Rev. Floyd H. Flake, the former congressman from Queens. Mr. Flake praised the mayor's leadership and record on schools. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); RELIGION (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); TERRORISM (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); MUSIC (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%) Endorsements; Education and Schools

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%) Mike Mcintire; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Floyd H (Rev) Flake; Mark Green

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2005



56 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Liberte, Egalite, Absurdite

BYLINE: By John J. Miller. 
John J. Miller is a writer for National Review and co-author of ''Our Oldest Enemy: A History of America's Disastrous Relationship with France.''

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
LA plus ca change. In 1965, when President Lyndon Johnson sent marines to the Dominican Republic to protect American citizens during a violent civil war, President Charles de Gaulle of France condemned the intervention. In a secret message to Washington, however, he asked for help defending the French Embassy. Johnson did so, but never heard a word of thanks, in public or private. Instead, de Gaulle went on to demand that the United States withdraw from Vietnam and, eventually, to pull his own forces out of NATO.
 George W. Bush must know exactly how Johnson felt. Shortly after Mr. Bush's re-election, the current French president, Jacques Chirac, called the post-Saddam Hussein world ''more dangerous,'' announced that the United States doesn't ''return favors'' to Europe and even accused Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld of ''a lack of culture.'' He managed to stuff all these comments into a single interview, which happened to coincide with Mr. Bush's firm support for a French military crackdown in the Ivory Coast, where antigovernment insurgents have endangered French citizens, the last remnant of Paris's colonial regime there. 
 Yet it's a mistake to assume that Mr. Chirac's rhetoric was just a clumsy expression of pent-up frustration with American voters. French foreign policy in the 1960's was not driven by a leader's personal antipathy for a brash Texan in the White House, and neither is today's. Regime change in the United States might have led John Kerry to slap Mr. Chirac on the back and say, ''Lafayette, we are here!'' -- but nothing would have altered the underlying fact that France has for decades viewed the United States as a unique threat. 
 The root of the problem is Gaullism itself. More than just a form of nationalism, Gaullism insists that France must exert an outsized influence on the course of human events. During the cold war, de Gaulle spoke of his country leading Europe as ''one of three world powers and, if need be one day, the arbiter between the two camps, the Soviet and the Anglo-Saxon.'' Hence de Gaulle developed a nuclear arsenal, threatened to destabilize the dollar and criticized American military actions.
 Mr. Chirac and his neo-Gaullists recognize that France can no longer serve as a fulcrum between East and West, but they believe their country still has a vital role to play in containing the world's ''hyperpower,'' in their pejorative labeling of the United States. On the cultural front, this agenda can manifest itself in bizarre rear guard actions. Most ridiculously, a French court has declared that the film ''Un Long Dimanche de Fiancailles'' (''A Very Long Engagement'') is not eligible to compete in French film festivals, despite having being filmed in France, in the French language, with hundreds of French actors and technicians. Its offense: receiving financial backing from Warner Brothers.
 In world politics, the French are much more aggressive. Before the invasion of Iraq, Paris didn't just express reservations -- it tried to sabotage American goals in every feasible venue, from the chambers of the Security Council to the committee rooms of NATO. Since then, it has issued a raft of demands, including the hasty transfer of sovereignty to an ad hoc Iraqi government, as well as a date certain by which the United States will remove its troops, no matter the circumstances. 
 Mr. Chirac's diplomats even spent October lobbying unsuccessfully for Iraqi insurgent groups -- the ones now killing American troops and Iraqi civilians -- to be represented at the international summit in Egypt in November. It is difficult to see how French interests are furthered in any way by this behavior, unless France is understood to believe that its own aims are advanced whenever American ones are thwarted.
 Dean Acheson once was asked to recommend a course of action with respect to de Gaulle. He advised an ''empty chair'' policy -- that is, French-American relations would improve only after de Gaulle had left the scene. This wait-and-see approach may have made sense at the time, but not today. While Mr. Chirac is 72, he might seek an unprecedented third term in 2007. Even if he doesn't, his successor could be Dominique de Villepin, the former foreign minister who under heavy questioning found himself unable to say he hoped for an American military victory in Iraq. Whatever happens, neo-Gaullism will continue to inform French attitudes.
 Condoleezza Rice, now Mr. Bush's nominee for secretary of state, was quoted in 2003 as telling colleagues that the United States should ''punish France.'' This is a tempting tactic, for it holds out the promise of vengeful satisfaction. It was also the motive behind the recent campaigns to boycott French products. Unbeknownst to most of the participants, however, the consumer strategy was tried without much success in the 1960's. In truth, Paris isn't worth a boycott.
 Thinking otherwise only buys into the Gaullist claim that France should occupy a place of reverence in the community of nations. But why should its views matter any more than, say, Italy, whose population and economy are nearly the same size? The United States may choose to work with France on a few areas of mutual diplomatic interest -- Haiti and perhaps Iran -- but in general, the marginal amounts of aid and peacekeeping help Paris can offer hardly merit concessions on our part. And if France threatens to undermine American interests with its Security Council veto, we should call its bluff, pointing out that such behavior merely weakens the institution that is the prime source of France's undeserved prestige. (Despite all the bluster, France has not used its veto power unilaterally since 1976.)
 Moreover, making an example of the French is precisely the wrong approach because it elevates France in the eyes of the world's anti-Americans, who will always be with us. The one thing France and the neo-Gaullists can't possibly abide is being ignored. Perhaps that's punishment enough.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Etienne Delessert) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%) United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); JACQUES CHIRAC (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) John J Miller; Jacques (Pres) Chirac

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (78%) FRANCE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%) France; France

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2005



57 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: The Social Security Fear Factor

 BODY:
If you've lent even one ear to the administration's recent comments on Social Security, you have no doubt heard President Bush and his aides asserting that a $10 trillion shortfall threatens the retirement system -- and the economy itself. That $10 trillion hole is the basis of the president's claim last month that ''the [Social Security] crisis is now.'' It's also the basis of the administration's claim that the cost of doing nothing to reform the system would be far greater than the cost of acting now. 
 Well, the $10 trillion figure is the closest you can get to pulling a number out of the air. Make that the ether. Starting last year, as the groundwork was being set for the emerging debate, the Social Security trustees took the liberty of projecting the system's solvency over infinity, rather than sticking to the traditional 75-year time horizon. That world-without-end assumption generates the scary $10 trillion estimate, and with it, Mr. Bush's putative rationale for dismantling Social Security in favor of a system centered on private savings accounts. The American Academy of Actuaries, the profession's premier trade association, objected to the change. In a letter to the trustees, the actuaries wrote that infinite projections provide ''little if any useful information about the program's long-range finances and indeed are likely to mislead any [nonexpert] into believing that the program is in far worse financial condition than is actually indicated.'' 
 As it often does with dissenting professional opinion, the administration is ignoring the actuaries. But that doesn't alter the facts or common sense. If the $10 trillion figure is essentially bogus, so is the claim that Social Security is in crisis. The assertion that doing nothing would be costlier than enacting a privatization plan also turns out to be wrong, by the estimates of Congress's own budget agency. 
 Over a 75-year time frame, Social Security's shortfall is estimated by the Congressional Budget Office at $2 trillion and by the Social Security trustees at $3.7 trillion, a manageable sliver of the economy in each case. If the shortfall is on the low side, Social Security will be in the black until 2052, when it will be able to pay out 80 percent of the promised benefits. If it is on the high side, the system will pay full benefits until 2042, when it will cover 70 percent. 
 Contrary to Mr. Bush's frequent assertion that Social Security is constantly imperiled by political meddling, it has in fact been preserved and improved by political intervention throughout its 70-year history, most significantly in 1983. The system could -- and should -- be strengthened again by a modest package of benefit cuts and tax increases phased in over decades.
 Instead, the administration wants workers to divert some of the payroll taxes that currently pay for Social Security into private investment accounts, in exchange for a much-reduced government benefit. To replace the taxes it would otherwise have collected -- money it needs to pay benefits to current and near retirees -- the government would borrow an estimated $2 trillion over the next 10 years or so and even more thereafter. 
 In effect, the administration's plan would get rid of the financial burden of Social Security by getting rid of Social Security. The plan shifts the financial risk of growing old onto each individual and off of the government -- where it is dispersed among a very large population, as with any sensible insurance policy. In a privatized system, you may do fine, but your fellow retirees may not, or vice versa. 
 In any event, doing well under privatization is relative. Congress's budget agency analyzed the privatized plan that is widely regarded as the template for future legislation and found that total retirement benefits -- including payouts from the private account plus the government subsidy -- would be less than under the present system. The amount available from the privatized system was less even after midcentury, when the current system is projected to come up short. 
 It should come as no shock that individual investors might not do as well as hoped. The stock market's historical returns -- some 7 percent a year -- are predicated on a hypothetical investor who bought an array of stocks in the past, reinvested all dividends, never cashed in and never paid commissions or fees. That's not how investing works in the real world. An especially grave danger is that investors would withdraw their funds before retirement, a pattern that is pronounced in 401(k) plans. It would be politically very difficult to refuse people access to accounts that were sold to them on the premise that they -- not the government -- would own them. 
 The Congressional Budget Office analysis also likely understates the costs to individuals of privatizing Social Security. The borrowing that would be needed to establish private accounts could lead to higher interest rates, a weaker dollar and slower economic growth. It is also likely that future tax hikes would be required to cover the interest payments on the additional national debt. 
 The only hands-down winner would be Wall Street, as fees to manage millions of accounts poured in. (Those fees, not incidentally, would come out of your return.) Current stockholders would also stand to benefit, as increased demand pushed up stock prices, giving existing owners a gain at the expense of newcomers who would be forced to buy high. The affluent, who could afford professional investing advice, would also be advantaged, even though everyone would be taking the same risks. 
 The zeal over privatization is fueled by the belief of Mr. Bush and his supporters that free-market fixes are appropriate for virtually every problem. That faith is misguided. For a society to be functional and humane, it's not enough that some people have a chance to be rich in old age. Rather, all old people must have the dignity of financial security, and that requires universal coverage. 
 Social Security is the core tier of old-age support, replacing about a third of preretirement income for a typical retiree and providing inflation-proof income for life -- a feature not available in private accounts. Its purpose is not to supplant other retirement investing, but to provide a crucial safety net. Anyone who wants to maintain his or her standard of living into old age must also amass substantial personal savings and investments. To introduce the same risk into the core tier of benefits that already exists for the bulk of one's retirement savings would be as unfair as it is unwise.
 If Mr. Bush were not so serious about privatizing Social Security, his urgency would be silly. Compared with other challenges looming for the government, it's a non-problem. The shortfall in the Medicare hospital insurance fund is two to three times the size of the Social Security shortfall, and that fund is projected to be insolvent some two to three decades before Social Security. Taken together, the costs of the Medicare prescription benefit and of making the tax cuts permanent -- Mr. Bush's two main domestic initiatives -- are 5 to 8.5 times larger. And his hair is on fire over Social Security? 
 One of the most distressing aspects of the debate over Social Security privatization is that it distracts from more pressing issues and obscures better solutions to the problem of secure retirement. A future editorial will discuss new strategies to increase private savings outside of Social Security that draw on market theory and behavioral economics and are more promising than rehashing the same tired formula of tax-sheltered savings accounts. In the meantime, however, Mr. Bush and his supporters will be pursuing their idee fixe of privatization. It's bad policy. And it's bad politics, too, driven by reflex, ideology and special interests, and sustained by conformism that masquerades as party discipline. Lawmakers who still value their right and obligation to think for themselves -- and to act in the best interest of their constituents -- must champion solutions that will build on Social Security, not undermine it.

A previous editorial, ''How to Save Social Security,'' is available online at nytimes.com/opinion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (90%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); TAX LAW (61%) Social Security (US); Editorials; Social Security (US)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ACADEMY OF ACTUARIES (82%) American Academy of Actuaries

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2005



58 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: Secret Meeting, Clear Mission: 'Rescue' U.N.

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
The meeting of veteran foreign policy experts in a Manhattan apartment one recent Sunday was held in strict secrecy. The guest of honor arrived without his usual retinue of aides. 
 The mission, in the words of one participant, was clear: ''to save Kofi and rescue the U.N.''
 At the gathering, Secretary General Kofi Annan listened quietly to three and a half hours of bluntly worded counsel from a group united in its personal regard for him and support for the United Nations. The group's concern was that lapses in his leadership during the past two years had eclipsed the accomplishments of his first four-year term in office and were threatening to undermine the two years remaining in his final term. 
 They began by arguing that Mr. Annan had to refresh his top management team, and on Monday he will announce that Mark Malloch Brown, 51, the widely respected administrator of the United Nations Development Program, will become Mr. Annan's chief of staff, replacing Iqbal Riza, who announced his retirement on Dec. 22.
 Their larger argument, according to participants, addressed two broad needs. First, they said, Mr. Annan had to repair relations with Washington, where the Bush administration and many in Congress thought he and the United Nations had worked against President Bush's re-election. Second, he had to restore his relationship with his own bureaucracy, where many workers said privately that his office protected high-level officials accused of misconduct.
 In the week after the session, Mr. Annan sought and obtained a meeting with Condoleezza Rice, the nominee for secretary of state. United Nations officials said afterward that it was an encouraging meeting. 
 The apartment gathering on Dec. 5 came at the end of a year that Mr. Annan has described as the organization's ''annus horribilis.'' The United Nations faced charges of corruption in the oil-for-food program in Iraq, evidence that blue-helmeted peacekeepers in Congo had run prostitution rings and raped women and teenage girls, and formal motions of no confidence in the organization's senior management from staff unions.
 Just days before the gathering, Senator Norm Coleman, a Minnesota Republican who is chairman of a subcommittee investigating the oil-for-food program, had brought criticism of the United Nations to a boil by calling for Mr. Annan's resignation.
 The meeting also occurred at a moment when the United Nations faces major institutional challenges: the Jan. 30 balloting in Iraq that United Nations electoral experts helped set up; the preliminary report late this month of the oil-for-food inquiry led by Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman.
 Now, the Asian tsunami is testing the organization's capacity for coordinating aid on a global scale.
 The meeting was held in the apartment of Richard C. Holbrooke, a United States ambassador to the United Nations under President Clinton. 
 Others in attendance were John G. Ruggie, assistant secretary general for strategic planning from 1997 to 2001 and now a professor of international relations at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard; Leslie H. Gelb, a former president of the Council on Foreign Relations; Timothy E. Wirth, the president of the United Nations Foundation, based in Washington; Kathy Bushkin, the foundation's executive vice president; Nader Mousavizadeh, a former special assistant to Mr. Annan who left in 2003 to work at Goldman Sachs; and Robert C. Orr, the assistant secretary general for strategic planning. Sir Jeremy Greenstock, Britain's ambassador to the United Nations from 1998 to 2003, was invited but could not attend. 
 ''The intention was to keep it confidential,'' Mr. Holbrooke said. ''No one wanted to give the impression of a group of outsiders, all of them Americans, dictating what to do to a secretary general.''
 He described the group as people ''who care deeply about the U.N. and believe that the U.N. cannot succeed if it is in open dispute and constant friction with its founding nation, its host nation and its largest contributor nation.''
 ''The U.N., without the U.S. behind it, is a failed institution,'' he said.
 None of the participants would discuss the remarks that were made in any detail. ''Secret advice, such as it is, is effective to the extent that it is kept that way,'' Mr. Ruggie said.
 But one participant, who requested anonymity, said Mr. Annan remained quiet throughout the session and made no promises -- nor was he asked to -- at its end.
 ''He sat in silence and made no effort to defend himself,'' the participant said. ''He was taking it all in. It wasn't a conversation, it was much more of a, 'Here is the situation, here are the choices on what you can do.'''
 Mr. Holbrooke said that the talk, while unalloyed, was not confrontational. ''There was nothing adversarial about it,'' he said. ''Kofi knew he was in a meeting with people who cared deeply about him and about the institution.''
 In a telephone interview on Sunday, Mr. Annan said he felt the session had been ''supportive and helpful,'' but said it was just one of many such meetings he had been holding. ''I've been talking to lots of people here and abroad and within my own organization planning ahead for the next two years,'' he said. ''It was part of that process. We did discuss how to improve relations with Washington.''
 One of the members of the group had prepared for the session by finding out if the Bush administration was siding with those in Congress who were calling for Mr. Annan's resignation or whether it would support his resolve to stay in office until the end of his term in December 2006. 
 The official, a onetime senior government figure in Washington with close ties to the Bush administration, said he concluded that ''they were not going to draw the sword against Kofi.'' 
 ''Everyone I talked to, including the White House, said that if Kofi was going to go, it was going to be by the hand of the Volcker report, not by the hand of the Bush administration,'' the official said.
 As for the staff's unhappiness with Mr. Annan's inner circle, Mr. Ruggie said: ''I think there is a genuine concern in the building that senior management is not held accountable for their decisions, for bad judgments, for poor performance, and that must change. The Secretary General missed an opportunity at the end of the first term to re-energize his top team as an American president would do, for example.''
 Ms. Bushkin said of Mr. Annan: ''My perception of what's happening is that he is preparing himself for the last two years, he's looking at his own leadership style and what it's going to take to get the job done. The last two years may require different skills in the people around him.''
 One top adviser who may be leaving is Kieran Prendergast, the under secretary for political affairs since 1997, who diplomats say is under consideration for the post of special envoy to the Middle East, which was vacated by Terje Roed-Larsen.
 Mr. Annan also has the opportunity to place new people in two other jobs that have become open coincidentally with the departures of Catherine Bertini, the under secretary general for management, and Jean-Pierre Halbwachs, the organization's controller.
 The speakers also faulted the United Nations for the state of its public communications. ''Throughout the building there is fairly low morale, which stems from the lackluster way in which the institution and the secretary general's office have responded to the oil-for-food charges,'' Mr. Ruggie said.
 He continued, ''The attackers of the U.N. for too long have had a free ride in exaggerating the magnitude of the problem, sometimes deliberately distorting the facts, escalating their accusations and demands for his resignation, and frankly the response on the part of the U.N. has been inept.''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 4, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article yesterday about a meeting of international affairs experts with Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations to discuss means of repairing his political liabilities misstated the term of office for his post. It is five years, not four; Mr. Annan is in the last two years of his second term.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary General Kofi Annan during a meeting in his office last week with Jan Egeland, the United Nations emergency relief coordinator. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); ETHICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); MISCONDUCT (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); RESIGNATIONS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); ELECTIONS (70%); CORRUPTION (69%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (69%); SEX OFFENSES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); FOOD CHARITIES (66%); PROSTITUTION (61%) United States International Relations; Ethics; Sex Crimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (56%) United Nations; United Nations; United Nations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); NORM COLEMAN (58%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (50%) Warren Hoge; Kofi (Sec Gen) Annan; George W (Pres) Bush; Richard C Holbrooke; Leslie H Gelb; John G (Prof) Ruggie; Timothy E Wirth; Kathy Bushkin; Nader Mousavizadeh; Robert C Orr

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%) Iraq; Congo (Formerly Zaire)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2005



59 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: World Bank Leader Expects to Step Down

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
The president of the World Bank, James D. Wolfensohn, said Sunday that he expected the White House to select a new World Bank leader this year as he ends 10 years as chief of the bank, an international lender.
 Mr. 
Wolfensohn's future has been a subject of speculation. His second five-year term expires in June. The United States trade representative, Robert B. Zoellick, has been mentioned as a possible successor.
 ''I've had 10 years, and that's probably enough,'' Mr. Wolfensohn said on the ABC News program ''This Week,'' when asked if he wanted to stay. ''But if the need is there, I'll do whatever the shareholders want.
 ''My understanding and my belief is that probably during the course of this year, I'll give over to someone else.''
 By informal agreement of the 184 shareholder nations that finance the bank and the International Monetary Fund, an American leads the bank and a European runs the fund.
 Mr. Wolfensohn has told the bank's staff to ''expect clarity'' on his tenure early in 2005. President Bush has the opportunity to decide who will lead the bank, which provides loans and advice to developing nations.
 Rob Nichols, the Treasury Department spokesman, declined to comment, citing department policy, Bloomberg News reported.
 Mr. Wolfensohn, 71, has been credited with highlighting global poverty, advancing debt relief to the poorest nations and tackling corruption of bank funds. But his relations with the Bush administration have been tense, especially over how World Bank aid is financed and distributed.


GRAPHIC: Photo: James D. Wolfensohn has led the World Bank for nearly 10 years. (Photo by Raveendran/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%) 

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (57%) James D Wolfensohn

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2005



60 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE LETTER; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: 'Pony Up' and Then 'Party On,' Inaugural Officials Say

BYLINE: By Elisabeth Bumiller

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Kelsey Grammer will be the M.C. at a kickoff inaugural gala honoring the military, the rap artist Kid Rock will perform at an inaugural youth concert and President Bush's most reliable fund-raisers have so far collected $15 million for three days of meticulously planned parties to celebrate his second swearing-in.
 ''Our first job is to provide a quality experience for our attendees,'' said Gordon C. James, a deputy director of inaugural events, who was bustling around the inaugural committee's offices on Thursday like a man before opening night.
 Between Christmas and the start of the new year, official Washington traditionally sleeps in. But last week two pockets of the capital were humming: the State Department, where officials were trying to coordinate aid to the tsunami victims in Asia, and the fifth floor of the old Department of Education building on C Street, headquarters of the inaugural committee, where 450 paid staff members and volunteers buzzed about concerts and balls. 
 The contrast between the two sites was not lost on inaugural organizers, who have already had to justify their plans to spend as much as $40 million on partying at a time of war. Last week they came under new questions when the United States initially offered only $15 million to aid the tsunami victims, although by Friday Mr. Bush announced that the American aid would be at least $350 million for what he termed an ''epic disaster.''
 In either case, the organizers were ready with an answer to critics who questioned the price tag on the merriment, which is similar to what was spent for the inaugural in 2001. A presidential inaugural, they said, has never been canceled, even during world wars. Mr. James, who has staged events for both President Bushes, went back and checked. ''The celebrations went on, that's the lesson we learned,'' he said. 
 Or as one senior inaugural official defined the criticism: ''It's a political shot. People are not going to demand the cancellation of the Rose Bowl parade or the Oscars.''
 The official, who asked not to be identified, noted that military planners began preparing logistics for the inaugural before the November election, as they always do, and that they had marked off a section of Capitol Hill for a ''farewell to the commander in chief'' should Mr. Bush have lost. 
 The point, the official said, was that the inaugural was a bipartisan celebration of democracy, not just of Mr. Bush.
 Of course, huge pictures of Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney did greet inaugural committee visitors the moment they stepped off the elevator last week. There were also splashy leftover banners from the Bush campaign ''Strengthening America's Economy'' displayed on the walls. 
 A few staff members even had hot-off-the-presses 2005 Dick Cheney calendars, a limited edition that features 11 months of the vice president fishing, riding a horse, giving speeches and walking with Mr. Bush along the White House colonnade. The 12th month, December, is a photograph of Mr. Cheney's Labrador retriever.
 Fund-raisers say that the inaugural check-collecting is proceeding on schedule, even though they now have a little more than two weeks to raise $15 million to $25 million for the festivities centered around the Jan. 20 swearing-in. 
 As they did last time, the party's biggest donors are calling up other big donors and corporate executives and asking for money, specifically in $100,000 or $250,000 increments that buy packages of invitations and access to the president. 
 One donor who raises money in Texas described the greatest hits of his sales pitch like this: ''Hey, how you doing, haven't talked to you for a while. The election was fabulous. And I think your money specifically went to Ohio. Now we've got this fantastic celebration coming up for the country. We really want you to participate. Everybody wants you there, and we've got these great packages. And corporate money is fine on this, you get to come to all the events, you and your wife can come to the special events just for the underwriters.''
 The donor asked not to be identified because he said he would get in trouble with the White House for talking openly about seeking hundreds of thousands of dollars from Mr. Bush's prosperous friends.
 For the general public, roomfuls of people at the inaugural committee are taking ticket requests from www.inaugural05.com ($150 per person is the price of an inaugural ball ticket), but organizers have been vague about how many tickets are actually available and who will get them.
 In the meantime, organizers say that Gloria Estefan and the country singer John Michael Montgomery will join Mr. Grammer, the former star of television's ''Frasier,'' at the military tribute at the MCI Center on Jan. 18. 
 The Bush twins, Jenna and Barbara, will be hosts of the youth concert, where the teenage singer JoJo will appear along with Kid Rock. The Kid, as he is called, notably said at a party during the Republican National Convention that if he were president he would never get caught having sex in the Oval Office but would instead install cameras in the Lincoln Bedroom.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the inaugural committee last week looked over photos of items that may be offered as souvenirs. Already chosen: a gold ornament, left, costing $19.95. (Photographs by Stephen Crowley) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); PARADES & MARCHES (73%); TSUNAMIS (73%) United States Politics and Government; Inaugurations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); DICK CHENEY (58%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2005



61 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; ASIA'S DEADLY WAVES: EMERGENCY CAMPAIGN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: Relief Effort Gains as Aid Is Reaching More Survivors

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN; Reporting for this article was contributed by Jane Perlez in Banda Aceh, Indonesia; David Rohde in Anuradhapura, Sri Lanka; Warren Hoge at the United Nations; and Eric Schmitt in Washington.

 BODY:
The international lifeline to save five million homeless victims of the Indian Ocean tsunami gathered strength on land, sea and air yesterday, as cargo-laden ships and planes converged on stricken coasts in Indonesia and other countries, and helicopters ferried food, water and medicines to desperate, isolated survivors.
 Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and President Bush's brother and personal representative, Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, left yesterday for Asia, and Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations will depart today to tour the hardest-hit regions and to join a conference of Southeast Asian nations opening in Jakarta, Indonesia, on Thursday to map a strategy for the relief effort.
 Jan Egeland, the United Nations emergency relief coordinator, recounted progress in relief efforts in Indonesia, Sri Lanka, India, Thailand and other nations. He told of new clinics in remote areas, listed more pledges of new aid and, in contrast to the terrible news of recent days, spoke of reasons for optimism. 
 ''The good news is coming in by the hour,'' Mr. Egeland said in New York, citing a donation of much-needed heavy forklifts as an example. ''I am more optimistic than yesterday, and much more than the day before, that we, the global community, will be able to face up to this enormous challenge.'' 
 It was only the beginning of a relief campaign that has drawn pledges of $2 billion from 40 countries and will go on for months, if not years, and the suffering was still widespread. But after a week of horrific reports -- with estimates of as many as 150,000 dead, 500,000 seriously injured, millions of homeless and hungry and tens of thousands missing -- there was a sense of progress and even rays of hope.
 A fisherman, 24-year-old Tengku Sofyan, was found barely alive under his beached boat in Lampulo, in Aceh Province on the Indonesian island of Sumatra. He had been trapped for a week without food and water, could barely speak and was badly dehydrated. ''He's in extremely fragile condition, especially mentally,'' said Dr. Irwan Azwar, who treated him.
 Rescue workers, many of whom have dug through rubble and piles of bodies for days without finding anyone alive, said that discovering missing people alive now bordered on hoping for miracles. Lamsar Sipahutar, the director of search efforts in Indonesia, said the government was ready to call off the search for missing people to concentrate on getting help to known survivors. Indonesia, closest to the epicenter of the undersea earthquake, has said that 100,000 of its people were killed.
 After days of red tape, washed out roads and bridges and other problems, substantial help was finally getting through, officials said. Four Indonesian Navy frigates loaded with supplies arrived off Meulaboh, the devastated city on the west coast of Aceh Province, where at least 10,000 people were killed and many survivors have wandered for a week like ghosts among the bodies and flattened homes.
 Off Banda Aceh, the provincial capital on the northeast coast, a five-ship American battle group led by the aircraft carrier Abraham Lincoln was present for a second day. Its fleet of helicopters flew 10 relief flights to Meulaboh, and others into towns and villages in Aceh, moving tons of supplies to survivors, American military officials said.
 As the helicopters drove deeper into the disaster areas, the pilots and crews brought out refugees and returned with accounts of wrecked villages and clusters of survivors they could not carry away, people in tattered clothes who grabbed desperately at cases of food and water.
 Meanwhile, a steady stream of cargo planes from many nations, and American Black Hawk transport helicopters and C-130 cargo planes, continued to land supplies at the Banda Aceh and Medan airports.
 Michael Elmquist, coordinator of the United Nations relief operations in Indonesia, said major headway had been made, both in distributing supplies that had piled up at the regional airports and in evacuating many people who had been left homeless and cut off by the destruction of roads and communications. 
 ''It's absolutely life-saving,'' Mr. Elmquist said in Jakarta of the helicopter evacuations. ''We are absolutely thrilled that Americans are doing that. They are the only ones who have the capacity to reach those parts of the population right now.''
 Health officials in Sumatra said no major epidemics or medical crises had broken out, although the need for clean water and sanitation was urgent. In New York, Mr. Egeland, the United Nations relief coordinator, said there had been sharp increases in diarrhea and respiratory problems, but no reports of cholera. 
 The World Health Organization said 50 international medical aid groups had arrived in Aceh Province. And Indonesian officials said eight field hospitals operated by Indonesian, Singaporean and Australian teams had been set up in Banda Aceh, Meulaboh and other towns. Australia said a 90-member medical team was on the way to organize another field hospital in Aceh.
 The International Committee of the Red Cross said it would fly in to Banda Aceh a 100-bed field hospital from Singapore by the end of the week. The hospital will have a 20-member staff of surgeons and nurses. The city's central hospital was swamped by the tsunami, leaving a military hospital to function alone in the chaotic city. The Red Cross already has a team of 40 engineers in Banda Aceh trying to fix the water-treatment plant. 
 In Sri Lanka, officials raised the death toll to 29,729, with 5,540 missing and more than 800,000 left homeless by the tsunami. Flash floods that had struck on the heavily damaged east coast on Friday and Saturday were receding yesterday. The floods had forced the evacuation of thousands from refugee camps, compounding the problems of delivering aid. 
 Aid officials said there was plenty of food and clothing, even a surplus. But thousands of people were living in small camps and other temporary shelters without adequate sanitation, and health officials in Colombo warned of the possibility of widespread disease. Eric Fernando, a spokesman for Sri Lanka's president, Chandrika Kumaratunga, said that aid had been abundant, but that there was a pressing need for water-purification equipment. 
 A convoy of American vessels led by the amphibious assault ship Bonhomme Richard was expected to arrive in Sri Lanka early this week with 1,500 marines, 20 helicopters, two C-130 planes and desalination equipment to provide clean water for thousands. The force is to include 200 marine engineers from Okinawa who will set up a disaster-relief distribution network in Sri Lanka, said Capt. Rodger Welch, a spokesman for the Pacific Command in Hawaii. 
 In the wake of the tsunami, Sri Lankans had appeared to set aside, at least temporarily, the bitter civil strife that has left 60,000 dead over three decades. But Sri Lankan military officials charged over the weekend that rebel Tamil Tigers had set fire to a refugee camp, forcing 60 refugees to flee, after they had accepted aid from government troops. A spokesman for the rebels denied the allegations.
 Help was also on the way to India's devastated Andaman and Nicobar Islands, an archipelago in the Bay of Bengal where thousands are believed to have perished. For many of the 350,000 islanders, there has been no outside help, although military planes have dropped food in some areas. The first Indian Navy supply ship arrived yesterday, but shortages were not expected to end immediately because of a chaotic distribution system. Piles of supplies lay at the airport at Port Blair, the capital.
 Victims on Andaman and Nicobar were sending out pleas for help by radio. ''Please send food immediately to Chowra or people will starve,'' one radioed SOS declared, referring to one of the archipelago's hundreds of islands.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Railroad tracks near the village of Kalamulla, near Colombo, Sri Lanka, twisted by the force of the tsunami. (Photo by Tatyana Makeyeva/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)(pg. A9)Chart/Map: ''The Death Toll''Estimated deaths across the region as of 8 p.m. Sunday.SOMALIA: 200KENYA: 1TANZANIA: 10MALDIVES: 80SRI LANKA: 30,000BANGLADESH: 2INDIA: 11,000MYANMAR: 90THAILAND: 5,000MALAYSIA: 67INDONESIA: 100,000Map of the Indian Ocean and the surrounding countries affected by the tsunami.(pg. A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (90%); TSUNAMIS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (89%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (89%); MISSING PERSONS (86%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); NAVIES (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PHILANTHROPY (66%); HELICOPTERS (57%) Earthquakes; Tidal Waves ; Foreign Aid; Philanthropy; Earthquakes; Bureaucratic Red Tape; Earthquakes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (59%) United Nations; Association of Southeast Asian Nations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (76%) Robert D Mcfadden; Kofi (Sec Gen) Annan; Jan Egeland; Colin L (Sec) Powell; Jeb (Gov) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%) SUMATRA, INDONESIA (94%); INDIAN OCEAN (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) INDONESIA (95%); SRI LANKA (94%); ASIA (94%); THAILAND (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); MALDIVES (79%); KENYA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOMALIA (79%); MYANMAR (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Indonesia; Thailand; Sri Lanka; India; Jakarta (Indonesia); Indian Ocean

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2005



62 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: A High Quality of Mercy

BYLINE: By Carol Adelman. 
Carol Adelman, a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute, is a former assistant administrator of the United States Agency for International Development.

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH the Bush administration has now pledged $350 million for the Asian tsunami catastrophe, claims that America is ''stingy'' are still in the air. The criticism stems from the much-touted fact that our government's foreign aid ranks last among developed countries as a percentage of gross national income. 
 This rankles, as Americans tend to think of themselves as a generous people. How can we, the richest nation in the world, not be more caring? The answer is simple: we actually are. 
 For one thing, our government gives the highest absolute amount in foreign aid -- more than $16 billion in 2003. And this does not include the cost of our global military presence, which helps provide the stability needed for economic growth, or the billions spent on developing medicines that save millions of lives in poorer nations. 
 Most important, however, Americans generally help people abroad the same way they help people at home: through private charities, religious organizations, foundations, corporations, universities and money sent to relatives. In 2000, all this came to more than $35 billion, more than three times what the government gave. And this does did not include giving by local churches or by overseas affiliates of American corporations.
 The fact is, foreign aid is being privatized. A study by the Foundation Center found that international giving by foundations grew by 79 percent 1998 from 2002, while overall giving grew by only 42 percent. Private giving is usually faster, nimbler and more directly accountable than government aid. Overhead costs are lower, and it can better avoid interference by corrupt officials. It's no surprise that some of the first groups on the scene in Asia were private; on the day of the earthquake, CARE bought food for more than 8,000 Sri Lankans along with purification supplies and sleeping mats for 500 families.
 The Europeans assist the needy abroad as they do the needy at home, primarily through government programs. This makes them appear generous: Norway ranks first in allocating 0.92 percent of its gross national income to foreign aid. But Norway's $2 billion of yearly aid is less than what American companies alone give. 
 So rather than talking about our stinginess, the Europeans and the United Nations should look to increase the role of private donors. After all, the victims of a tsunami do not care whether the food, medicine and clean water come from a government or an independent charity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (89%); TSUNAMIS (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); CHARITIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); RANKINGS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); RELIGION (67%); ARMED FORCES (54%); CORRUPTION (50%) Foreign Aid; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: FOUNDATION CENTER (54%)

PERSON: Carol Adelman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (93%); NORWAY (92%); ASIA (79%) United States; Europe

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2005



63 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: A Tale Of 2 Systems

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS. 
E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Over the past 50 years, we've been having a big debate over two rival economic systems. Conservatives have tended to favor the American model, with smaller government and lower taxes, but less social support. Liberals have supported programs that lead to the European model, with bigger government, more generous support and less inequality.
 I wonder if that debate is about to change. In the next few decades both models are going to confront a big test: aging populations. The U.S. model is going to be challenged by this problem, but the European model is flat-out unsustainable. 
 Populations in the U.S. and Europe are both aging, but Europe is aging faster. According to the O.E.C.D., the dependency ratio -- defined as the number of people over 65 as a percentage of the number of people 20 to 64 years old -- will rise to 37 percent from 22 percent in the United States by 2050. But it will go up to 52 percent from 26 percent in the European Union.
 In addition, European public pensions are more generous and retirees are more reliant on them. To sustain these programs, European government spending will have to rise. According to the European Commission, demographic trends will push public spending up by five to eight percentage points of G.D.P. in the E.U.'s 15 richest members. In Germany, public spending on pensions will rise from an already huge level, 10.3 percent of G.D.P., to 15.4 percent by 2040. And that's after recent benefit cuts.
 To pay for all of this, taxes will rise and public debt will increase. A Standard & Poor's survey predicts that France and Germany could see their public debt grow to more than 200 percent of G.D.P. by 2050. 
 Europe may find itself locked into a vicious circle: an aging population means more public spending, which means higher taxes, which means lower growth, which means higher unemployment, which means more public spending, which means more taxes and even lower growth. 
 The former Dutch prime minister, Wim Kok, recently released a scathing report that found that ''the pure impact of aging populations will be to reduce the potential growth rate of the E.U. from the present rate, of 2 percent to 2.25 percent, to around 1.25 percent by 2040.''
 Already, high European taxes make the European model look obsolete. European and U.S. workers are about equally productive per hour worked. But Americans work 50 percent more than Germans, French and Italians. In the 1970's, Western Europeans actually worked more than Americans. But as taxes rose and incentives to work diminished, Europeans cut back their hours or dropped out of the labor force.
 Some economists, like the Nobel laureate Edward Prescott, believe higher tax rates explain the drop in work. Others believe cultural preferences also played a big role. Either way, high taxes have made Europe less productive just as it needs high output to support its retirees. 
 Partly as a result, European economies have underperformed for a generation now. As Olaf Gersemann has pointed out, the U.S. economy has enjoyed an annual real growth rate of 2.9 percent over the past 25 years. That's 55 percent more than western Germany, 48 percent more than France and 39 percent more than the E.U. as a whole. Back in the 1970's, European standards of living were catching up to U.S. standards. Now American G.D.P. per capita is about 30 percent higher than Europe's and the gap, if anything, is getting wider. 
 Which brings us to the current moment. In Europe, everybody is aware of the problem, but the remedies are so bad that most countries avoid them. Meanwhile, we in the United States are embarking on our own debate over the future of Social Security. Many liberals are claiming that we don't need to fundamentally revamp our system because there is no crisis. To the extent that's true, it is because we have not been taking their advice for the past 50 years.
 We have stuck with a low-tax, high-growth economic model. This gives us the resources and the flexibility to deal with the problems caused by an aging population without having to face, at least for now, the horrific choices that confront our friends across the Atlantic. 
 The question is: Will we leave our children a system as flexible, dynamic and productive as the one that was, fortunately, left to us? Or, by doing nothing, will we succumb to the same ineluctable pressures that now afflict Europe, and find that we are immobilized at the exact moment China and India are passing us by? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); AGING (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); AGING TRENDS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TRENDS (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); AWARDS & PRIZES (64%) Age, Chronological; Aged; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%) European Union

PERSON: David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) Europe; Europe

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2005



64 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; ASIA'S DEADLY WAVES: BEIJING'S ROLE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Size of China's Aid Marks a Policy Shift, but Is Still Dwarfed by That of Richer Countries

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

DATELINE: BEIJING, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
China's response to the tsunami disaster is showing the nation's limitations as an aspiring superpower, despite its new and growing influence in Asia.
 China's offer of aid, if slightly belated, is sizable, given its often inward-looking history. But it is also a reminder that the world's most populous country is still far from being the dominant power in Asia.
 Last Friday, Prime Minister Wen Jiabao announced that China would donate about $63 million, one of its largest pledges of international relief aid. It was a marked increase from earlier in the week, when China had pledged only $2.6 million. 
 But the higher figure was quickly eclipsed when the United States increased its pledge to $350 million and Japan followed with $500 million. Moreover, China has watched as American vessels have moved quickly into the region with Navy helicopters delivering food and critical supplies to the hardest hit areas of Indonesia. This week, a convoy of American ships is expected to arrive in Sri Lanka with more than 1,500 marines.
 By contrast, China's primary contribution at the scene of the catastrophe has been a 35-member medical team now treating patients in Indonesia. Other Chinese medical teams are being dispatched, and at least one commercial cargo plane has already left Beijing with $1.8 million in medicine, food and generators.
 For more than a year, China's top officials and diplomats have sought a leadership role in the region on the strength of the country's booming economy. Other Asian countries have eagerly sought trade deals with China, and Mr. Wen has promoted the idea of an Asian equivalent to the European Union.
 But gaining such economic clout has not yet translated into broader power or influence, according to Robert Sutter, a former American government official who has written extensively about United States-China relations. Mr. Sutter said China's ''soft power'' is growing in the region but should not be overstated.
 ''The things China has been doing are all win-win,'' said Mr. Sutter, now a visiting professor in the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University. ''They don't generally cost China anything. But when you have to do something that costs something, it's hard for them to do it.''
 He added, ''They are still an aid recipient.''
 In the past few years, China has begun a transition from being a recipient of international assistance to a donor nation. The World Food Program will phase out subsidies to China this year, while China is now starting to make small contributions to the agency. Japan also has been scaling down its aid to China while increasing support for India.
 Meanwhile, China has increased its contributions to nations like Vietnam, Indonesia and Myanmar as part of its effort to raise its profile in the region. China is also believed to give tens of millions of dollars in annual aid to help prop up North Korea.
 But such direct contributions are different from responding to an international disaster. Last Thursday, a Chinese spokesman sounded defensive when asked about the country's relatively low initial contribution of $2.6 million. At the time, by contrast, Taiwan had offered $5 million.
 ''China is a developing country,'' said the Foreign Ministry spokesman, Liu Jianchao.
 The next day Mr. Wen announced that China had increased its aid.
 Shi Yinhong, a professor of international politics at People's University in Beijing, said the United States had a ''huge superiority'' over China in such crises. But he said China's pledge marked a milestone shift from the more aloof stance the country has traditionally taken in such efforts. ''We are still learning how to react multilaterally,'' Mr. Shi said. ''But there is a new sense that China should play more of a role.''
 President Hu Jintao, quoted in the state media, said the Chinese government would provide ''any possible aid in its power to those in need.'' Mr. Wen is scheduled to attend a meeting on Thursday in Indonesia, where leaders from a number of nations are expected to discuss coordination of recovery efforts for the region.
 Meanwhile, the Chinese propaganda machine has been hard at work. Stories of ordinary citizens making small contributions to nongovernmental relief funds have filled newspapers here. Monday's edition of People's Daily carried an article about the Chinese medical team with a headline declaring: ''Indonesian Disaster Victims Speak From the Heart: China is a Great Country!''
 But China is also a country with a yawning wealth gap and huge domestic problems. On the Chinese Internet, writers posted e-mails in several chat rooms questioning why China was not spending its money at home. Others were furious that China was helping Indonesia, which has a history of discrimination and violence against ethnic Chinese.
 Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing has already spoken by telephone with United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan. The official China Daily reported that China had endorsed the United Nations taking the lead role in the relief effort.
 No mention was made of the coalition of donor nations announced by President Bush that include India, Japan, Australia and the United States. China is conspicuously absent from this group, though Mr. Bush said he expected other nations to quickly join in.
 David Shambaugh, director of the China Policy Program at George Washington University, said China had the basic capability to provide a military response to future disasters assuming its leaders chose to, and other nations approve. 
 ''Given China's growing influence in the region, this catastrophe is going to reveal whether China will put resources behind its rhetoric and can contribute on the ground in a meaningful way,'' Mr. Shambaugh said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (90%); TSUNAMIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); FOOD CHARITIES (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (68%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); HELICOPTERS (53%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Earthquakes; Foreign Aid; Tidal Waves; Earthquakes

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (59%) Jim Yardley

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); ASIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (93%); SRI LANKA (92%); INDIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MYANMAR (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%) China; Japan; Sri Lanka; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2005



65 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: Work Begins on Colossal Artwork-in-the-Park

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
Under the watchful gaze of the creators, a crew of roughly 100 workers began lowering thousands of steel bases onto the walkways of Central Park yesterday in preparation for the biggest public art project the city has ever seen, at least since the park itself was designed in 1857: ''The Gates,'' by the artists Christo and Jeanne-Claude.
 The workers, who ranged from musicians to out-of-work actors to forklift operators, gathered at 7 a.m. at the Central Park Boathouse for a briefing by, among others, the artists. A little while later, at the staging area at 102nd Street just beneath the Harlem Meer, where the steel bases were stacked, men and women in yellow vests waved orange caution flags at pedestrians while others, wielding measuring tapes and string, began carefully placing the bases in areas designated with a stenciled maple leaf, about 12 feet apart. Eventually, the bases will support 7,500 gates festooned with saffron-colored fabric panels along 23 miles of the park's pedestrian walkways -- from 59th Street to 110th Street, east and west. 
 The $20 million project, a quarter-century in the making and financed by the artists, will go on full view on Feb. 12 and remain until Feb. 27. It is expected to attract thousands of art lovers from around the world. The artists are trying to create ''a visual golden river appearing and disappearing through the bare branches of the trees, highlighting the shapes of the footpaths,'' according to a brochure explaining the project. The color was chosen to cast a warm glow over the park at a gray time of year. 
 Though Christo and his collaborator and wife, Jeanne-Claude, were in the park yesterday greeting the crews, most days Christo has been closeted in his SoHo studio making drawings of the gates as fast as he can. As soon as he finishes a work, Jeanne-Claude gets in touch with an interested collector or museum to try to sell it in order to pay for ''The Gates.'' 
 ''He only has 40 more days left to make the preparatory drawings,'' Jeanne-Claude said in a telephone interview on Sunday. ''Once 'The Gates' are up, Christo stops drawing.'' 
 In 2004, she said, the couple sold $15.1 million worth of Christo's creations, everything from recent drawings of ''The Gates'' to a sculpture of a life-size storefront dating from 1964, which the Wurth Museum in Kunzelsau, Germany, bought for $3 million. They also sold a significant amount of work in 2003 that will go toward the current project's cost. 
 In addition to the passionate collectors from around the world who have bought their work, Jeanne-Claude said, museums like the National Gallery of Art in Washington, the Whitney Museum of American Art, the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, the San Diego Museum in La Jolla and the Wurth Museum have all purchased drawings of ''The Gates.'' The largest of these have been selling for $600,000. 
 The artists have historically sold their work to pay for all their public art projects. Over the years, these have included wrapping the Reichstag in Berlin with more than a million square feet of aluminum-colored fabric and swathing the Pont Neuf in Paris with a champagne-hued textile. 
 Two years ago, when Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg first announced that ''The Gates'' would come to Central Park, he, along with officials from the New York City Parks Department and the Central Park Conservancy, emphasized that the project would not cost the city a penny. Christo and Jeanne-Claude are responsible for paying for all materials, labor and installation. They have also agreed to pay the city for additional security during the period that ''The Gates'' is on view. 
 The city's Economic Development Corporation estimates that the project will generate more than $80 million in revenue for New York during a traditionally dead winter month. NYC & Company, the city's tourism marketing group, said that once visitors made the pilgrimage to see ''The Gates,'' they would also be staying at hotels and going to restaurants, museums, Broadway shows and other attractions, adding up to a significant economic boost for the city. (In 1981, the New York City Parks Department denied the artists a permit to put up ''The Gates,'' which at that point involved drilling holes in the ground to stabilize the steel supports. Over the years, however, Christo and Jeanne-Claude have modified the project considerably.)
 For several months the cafe in the Central Park Boathouse has been taking reservations for lunch and dinner during the 16-day exhibition. Officials at the Metropolitan Museum, whose rooftop is being opened especially for visitors to view the project, say both its trustees' dining room and its Petrie Court cafe have been taking reservations for the same period. 
 Turning ''The Gates'' from the artists' 26-year dream into a reality has taken years of planning and testing. Vince Davenport, the chief engineer and director of construction, and his wife, Jonita, the project director, have been working alongside Christo and Jeanne-Claude since 1989 -- for the last three years exclusively on ''The Gates.'' At their home in Leavenworth, Wash., they created a life-size test where 18 gates were installed for seven months through the rains, snow and high winds of winter. 
 ''I'm under the gun now,'' Mr. Davenport said. ''I sleep till about 4 o'clock, and then my stomach starts churning.'' He has supervised every detail that has gone into the making of the gates themselves, from finding the right materials -- which include more than 5,000 tons of steel, about two-thirds of the amount used to make the Eiffel Tower -- to figuring out with park officials how to get the materials from assembly plants in Queens into the park in a way that does not disturb the public, to making sure the installation is as simple as putting together a giant Lego set. 
 "There are so many details,'' he said. ''You have to be ready for anything.'' He has bought 150 snow shovels to clean the paths, in case it snows. 
 From a trailer adjacent to the Central Park Boathouse, the Davenports run a command center. Mrs. Davenport handles the day-to-day details. She also hired the crew of 1,100 workers, who have come from 45 different states. 
 The couple moved to New York two years ago to work on ''The Gates.'' It is by far their biggest logistical undertaking, bigger than wrapping the Reichstag or planting a forest of giant umbrellas in rice paddies near Tokyo. 
 ''You cannot overplan something like this,'' Mrs. Davenport said. ''Our children are grown up, so we can devote 110 percent to the project.'' 
 Describing the workers, she said, ''We have retired Air Force people, doctors, lawyers, engineers, architects, teachers.'' Many people who work on Christo and Jeanne-Claude's projects, she explained, have had experience in the film industry or in organizing events like rock concerts. There are several different kinds of workers; the most inexperienced are paid the minimum wage, $6 an hour, plus one free hot meal a day; professional workers, like the forklift operators, are paid a salary for the entire project. 
 All the hiring was done by e-mail messages. Once word spread that they were gearing up for ''The Gates,'' Mrs. Davenport said, she received inquiries from more than 2,000 applicants, out of which she chose 1,100. 
 ''Christo and Jeanne-Claude give first preference to local workers,'' Mrs. Davenport said. ''And to those who have worked on previous projects. They recognize loyalty.''
 Each worker gets a special ''Gates'' uniform (to keep) designed by Christo. Jeanne-Claude declined to describe it, saying she was afraid that if she did, there would be a rash of knockoffs for sale. 
 Traditionally, Mrs. Davenport said, the workers are a jovial group. ''Lots of long-lasting friendships are made,'' she said. ''There's always a baby born after every project. But this one is in winter, so we'll have to see.'' 


CORRECTION-DATE: January 17, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 4 about the installation of ''The Gates,'' a public art project in Central Park by the artists Christo and Jeanne-Claude, misidentified a museum that has purchased some of their works. It is the Museum of Contemporary Art San Diego, which has sites in La Jolla and San Diego, not the San Diego Museum.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Thousands of steel bases will hold ''The Gates,'' an artwork by Christo and Jeanne-Claude now being installed in Central Park. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E1)
One of Christo's drawings for ''The Gates,'' works that are being sold to help finance the giant project. (Photo by Wolfgang Volz/Christo)
 Jonita and Vince Davenport have worked with the artists on the project. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); SCULPTURE (77%); PAINTING (77%); INTERVIEWS (64%); RETAILERS (60%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (56%) Art; Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Public Art

PERSON: Christo (Artist); Jeanne-Claude (Artist); Carol Vogel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (50%) New York City; Central Park (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2005



66 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: Industrial Activity Still Rising; Construction Spending Slips

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The nation's industrial sector ended 2004 on a high note, with manufacturing activity expanding in December for the 19th consecutive month, a research group reported yesterday. But the government said that construction spending dropped in November as builders limited their projects in anticipation of higher interest rates.
 The research group, the Institute for Supply Management, said its main index of industrial activity rose to 58.6 in December from 57.8 in November. The December performance was slightly more robust than analysts had anticipated. 
 An index reading of 50 or higher means the manufacturing sector is expanding; a figure below 50 represents a contraction. The index has been at or higher than 50 since May 2003.
 Norbert J. Ore, chairman of the institute's survey committee, said the December results were ''driven by a significant increase in the new orders index.''
 He added that the strong finish for 2004 meant that manufacturing had ''significant momentum going into the first quarter of 2005.''
 Separately, the Commerce Department reported that construction spending declined 0.4 percent in November, the first drop in 10 months, as private builders cut back on residential and commercial projects.
 Analysts had forecast a 0.5 percent rise in construction spending.
 Still, even with the drop, the level of spending -- $1.01 trillion -- on an annualized basis was quite healthy, and construction activity in October was significantly stronger than initially thought. Revised figures showed that spending in October rose by 0.3 percent, compared with the flat reading reported earlier.
 Dan Laufenberg, chief United States economist at American Express Financial Advisors in Minneapolis, said the construction spending data was disappointing but not unexpected.
 ''In a rising rate environment, one would expect that construction would not do well,'' Mr. Laufenberg said. ''What you're likely to see is some leveling off of construction activity, which is consistent with the November data.''
 Most analysts say they believe that home sales will moderate in 2005, in large part on the expectation that mortgage rates will move higher this year. The average rate on 30-year mortgages could climb to around 6.5 percent by the end of this year from 5.84 in 2004, analysts predict.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Construction Spending''Total construction spending in billions of dollars at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.Nov. -- -0.4%Oct. -- +0.3Sept. -- +0.6Graph tracks construction spending since June 2003. (Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (94%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); OFFICE PROPERTY (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); NEW ORDERS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (66%) United States Economy; Building (Construction); Housing ; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; United States Economy

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Institute for Supply Management; Commerce Department

TICKER: AMP (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2005



67 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Stopping the Bum's Rush

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The people who hustled America into a tax cut to eliminate an imaginary budget surplus and a war to eliminate imaginary weapons are now trying another bum's rush. If they succeed, we will do nothing about the real fiscal threat and will instead dismantle Social Security, a program that is in much better financial shape than the rest of the federal government. 
 In the next few weeks, I'll explain why privatization will fatally undermine Social Security, and suggest steps to strengthen the program. I'll also talk about the much more urgent fiscal problems the administration hopes you won't notice while it scares you about Social Security. 
 Today let's focus on one piece of those scare tactics: the claim that Social Security faces an imminent crisis.
 That claim is simply false. Yet much of the press has reported the falsehood as a fact. For example, The Washington Post recently described 2018, when benefit payments are projected to exceed payroll tax revenues, as a ''day of reckoning.''
 Here's the truth: by law, Social Security has a budget independent of the rest of the U.S. government. That budget is currently running a surplus, thanks to an increase in the payroll tax two decades ago. As a result, Social Security has a large and growing trust fund. 
 When benefit payments start to exceed payroll tax revenues, Social Security will be able to draw on that trust fund. And the trust fund will last for a long time: until 2042, says the Social Security Administration; until 2052, says the Congressional Budget Office; quite possibly forever, say many economists, who point out that these projections assume that the economy will grow much more slowly in the future than it has in the past.
 So where's the imminent crisis? Privatizers say the trust fund doesn't count because it's invested in U.S. government bonds, which are ''meaningless i.o.u.'s.'' Readers who want a long-form debunking of this sophistry can read my recent article in the online journal The Economists' Voice (www.bepress.com/ev). 
 The short version is that the bonds in the Social Security trust fund are obligations of the federal government's general fund, the budget outside Social Security. They have the same status as U.S. bonds owned by Japanese pension funds and the government of China. The general fund is legally obliged to pay the interest and principal on those bonds, and Social Security is legally obliged to pay full benefits as long as there is money in the trust fund. 
 There are only two things that could endanger Social Security's ability to pay benefits before the trust fund runs out. One would be a fiscal crisis that led the U.S. to default on all its debts. The other would be legislation specifically repudiating the general fund's debts to retirees. 
 That is, we can't have a Social Security crisis without a general fiscal crisis -- unless Congress declares that debts to foreign bondholders must be honored, but that promises to older Americans, who have spent most of their working lives paying extra payroll taxes to build up the trust fund, don't count.
 Politically, that seems far-fetched. A general fiscal crisis, on the other hand, is a real possibility -- but not because of Social Security. In fact, the Bush administration's scaremongering over Social Security is in large part an effort to distract the public from the real fiscal danger. 
 There are two serious threats to the federal government's solvency over the next couple of decades. One is the fact that the general fund has already plunged deeply into deficit, largely because of President Bush's unprecedented insistence on cutting taxes in the face of a war. The other is the rising cost of Medicare and Medicaid.
 As a budget concern, Social Security isn't remotely in the same league. The long-term cost of the Bush tax cuts is five times the budget office's estimate of Social Security's deficit over the next 75 years. The botched prescription drug bill passed in 2003 does more, all by itself, to increase the long-run budget deficit than the projected rise in Social Security expenses. 
 That doesn't mean nothing should be done to improve Social Security's finances. But privatization is a fake solution to a fake crisis. In future articles on this subject I'll explain why, and also outline a real plan to strengthen Social Security. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); BONDS (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%) Social Security (US); Social Security (US)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2005



68 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: American Upstart Tests His Manners in a Bawdy Britain

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Greg Gutfeld is an American in London, a far cry from a proper British lad, the sort of bloke who snacks on the British version of Maxim along with his fish and chips. But he has been working hard to go native after being named editor last May of that bawdy, beery and relentlessly British men's magazine.
 A former editor of Men's Health and Stuff, Mr. Gutfeld, 40, was brought to Maxim by its owner, Dennis Publishing, to counter the arrival in the men's magazine market here of two weekly ''lad'' magazines, Nuts and Zoo. The newcomers have been a hit, using the lad magazine melody of nearly nude women, pub jokes and parody on a weekly tempo that allows them to annotate sports, television and news in almost real time. 
 Maxim, the No.3 magazine in the British monthly men's market behind FHM and Loaded, has taken the arrival of these new magazines on the chin, losing almost 10 percent of its sales in the first half of last year. Felix Dennis, the madcap owner of Dennis Publishing, decided Mr. Gutfeld was as good as choice as any to come up with a formula for a monthly that needs to find an audience in a changed marketplace. (The fight may reach American shores soon enough. Time Inc., among others, is looking at publishing a weekly men's magazine, according to executives there.) 
 In coming to England to edit a monthly men's magazine in decline, Mr. Gutfeld is reversing a polarity. Historically, when an American publishing company finds itself in need of something a little different, something with a little heat, it decides to reach across the Atlantic and hire the latest hotshot editor from England. Now the reach is going the other direction. 
 In America, Mr. Gutfeld experienced success, first at Men's Health and then at Stuff, also owned by Dennis, by striding up to edge and jumping off. In an age of sunny magazine-speak, Mr. Gutfeld has always tended toward the dark, the slightly off, the scary-funny.
 Beyond making magazines that ignored convention, Mr. Gutfeld is a bit of a street fighter. The Stuff Summary, a monthly cartoon panel mostly written by him, took aim at all that was sacred in Manhattan publishing, assailing competitors like Esquire and GQ with a series of outrageous personal attacks. He also gained a share of infamy by hiring a group of dwarfs to disrupt a magazine conclave by chatting on cellphones and munching noisily from bags of potato chips. The subject of the panel was ''How to Create Buzz,'' something Mr. Gutfeld has never had much trouble doing.
 But while the high jinks produced a great deal of notoriety, they virtually assured Mr. Gutfeld's being unemployable in the American market after he was gently nudged out as editor of Stuff for making a magazine that was less mass market than mass lunacy. 
 ''All of it was a pre-emptive strike to make sure I wouldn't end up in a job I shouldn't take,'' said Mr. Gutfeld, sitting in a borrowed office on the fifth floor of Dennis Publishing's offices in the West End of London, wearing a T-shirt emblazoned with the word ''Hotdog.'' ''The guys over here knew what they were getting into. They haven't been surprised.'' 
 And those characteristics that were a liability in America -- unruliness and outrageousness -- are viewed as assets in the more wide-open British market. 
 ''We needed to develop a point of difference from the rest of the men's market,'' said Bruce Sandell, group publishing director at Dennis. ''Greg is a very creative bloke, someone who understands the men's market and is a bit of a maverick.''
 Mr. Gutfeld, give or take a few cultural gaffes, has been assimilating nicely. On a Friday night in Islington, a pub-infested neighborhood on the outskirts of central London, the holiday party for Maxim magazine took wing. Given the magazine's hedonistic theology, things proceeded as one might expect: The pound coins bounced on the bar, the lads drained pints, and several beautiful women were in attendance. 
 Mr. Gutfeld was enjoying himself but noticed one of his colleagues -- his art director -- dancing with a bit too much enthusiasm, who then became a human bowling ball and knocked down several bystanders. Mr. Gutfeld, was not exactly sure what to do -- when does local custom dictate that an inebriated lad has become a lout in need of the heave-ho? But then a few British staff members stepped in, grabbed their colleague from either side and bundled him into a taxi, telling him, no, he may not drive. (In a tribute to British breeding, the colleague, when sober, sent chocolates to the entire staff, eschewing specific knowledge of his transgressions, but suggesting they may have nonetheless occurred.)
 The night ended well, but the verdict on Mr. Gutfeld's tenure will take longer to discern. In a market and culture where Americans are not as exalted as they once were, Mr. Gutfeld could be viewed as the ugliest of Americans, a supporter of both President Bush and the war in Iraq, a Yankee who never got the hang of American manners, let alone proper British ways.
 Mr. Gutfeld has certainly managed to make some trans-Atlantic waves. After he was handed the job last June, he ran a contest in which readers who found a tiny picture of male genitalia in the magazine were given a number to call that happened to be the private line of an editor at a competing magazine. In the December issue, he ran a special calendar of ''heroic'' women -- Margaret Thatcher, Princess Diana, Mother Teresa -- but substituted nude models in poses meant to bring their famed counterparts to mind. Diana, for one, is depicted outfitted with a landmine detector and little else. A series of articles called ''Fresh Off the Boat'' takes a pro-immigration stance by depicting recently arrived young women.
 ''They say I am too dark, that I hear voices in my head,'' Mr. Gutfeld said. ''But all I really want is to put the kind of humor in a men's magazine that you already see on British TV. I mean, how twisted is 'The Office' or 'Brass Eye' or 'Peep Show'?''
 At an editorial meeting last month to finish the February issue, Mr. Gutfeld, who recently married Elena Moussa, the picture editor of the Russian version of Maxim in a civil ceremony in New York, made his way through a stack of hand-scribbled suggestions because the e-mail system had been down all day.
 ''Normally we turn off the lights, take our pants off and conduct the entire meeting in French,'' Mr. Gutfeld offered. An article about a voyeuristic goldfish prompted bad puns -- ''For the love of cod'' -- and just plain silliness -- ''gills, gills, gills.'' 
 In recent issues, there was a trip giveaway for terminally ill people, a cheeky survey of men on death row and a large, illustrated text on pubic lice. It will be another month before newsstand figures on Mr. Gutfeld's tenure emerge, but some doubt he can single-handedly stem the slide of men's monthlies. 
 ''I think it is very hard to come from a different place with different cultural references,'' said Phil Hilton, editor of Nuts, adding, ''We can bounce off all the big stories of the week, and the difficulty for a monthly magazine is that everything has to be generated by a bunch of guys sitting around the pub making jokes.''
 Mr. Gutfeld has made serious efforts to assimilate. He has adopted the Millwall soccer club, whose chant goes along the lines of ''No one likes us, no one likes us, no one likes us, we don't care. We are Millwall.''
 He expresses a similar disdain for public opinion. His employees still seemed charmed by the alien in their midst, taking time to share stories of his difficulties in adapting to local custom.
 David Whitehead, one of the magazine's more prolific writers, enjoyed telling the story of how Mr. Gutfeld had difficulty wrapping himself around certain British colloquialisms. 
 Mr. Gutfeld admits he is at something of a disadvantage in a city where his peers grew up on British television and a steady diet of daily nude pictures in the tabloids.
 Mr. Gutfeld has found admirers in the British publishing business, but that is not the same as having it figured out.
 ''I think the least of his problems is his nationality,'' said James Brown, who all but invented the genre when he came up with Loaded, the original lad magazine. ''He has done a good job of attracting attention, which is part of his package, but now he has to figure out how to make the guys in Scotland and in the South Coast and the country get into Maxim. He can't just entertain his friends, because he hasn't got enough of them here.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Greg Gutfeld is finding a home for his bravado at Maxim in Britain. (Photo by Steve Forrest for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); MEN'S MARKET (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); SNACK FOODS (78%); PUBLISHING (77%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MEN'S HEALTH (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Magazines

COMPANY: MAXIM INTEGRATED PRODUCTS INC (92%); TIME INC (91%); MEN'S HEALTH MAGAZINE (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Maxim (Magazine); Zoo (Magazine); Nuts (Magazine)

TICKER: MXIM (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (92%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: Greg Gutfeld; David Carr

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2005



69 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: Oil Prices Slide in Mild Weather

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Oil prices slid 3 percent yesterday on expectations that more mild weather in the United States at the start of the New Year will limit heating oil demand.
 Oil futures in New York trading closed $1.33 lower, at $42.12 a barrel, after hitting a low of $41.25 during the session.
 Heating oil lost 6.04 cents, to settle at $1.1922 a gallon. 
 The winter has been mild in the Northeast, the world's biggest heating oil market, and normal to above-normal temperatures are expected to prevail over the next few days, forecasters said.
 Heating needs this week in New England will average about 25 percent below normal, according to the National Weather Service.
 ''Weather has been the Achilles' heel of this market,'' said John Brady of ABN Amro in New York. 
 ''Eventually we'll get another cold blast,'' Mr. Brady said. ''Until we do, the market's going to feel very weak.''
 Mild temperatures should give refiners a chance to increase inventory levels, which ended 2004 about 12 percent below their year-earlier levels, largely because of heavy demand from Europe and Asia, along with high diesel consumption at home. 
 Oil prices rose 34 percent in 2004, helped by a mix of unexpectedly strong growth in demand, limited spare capacity for refining and production, and anxiety over Middle East output.
 Last week in Saudi Arabia, suicide bombers tried to storm the interior ministry and a security unit in Riyadh, the capital, reviving worries about supply from the region.
 In addition, Iraq's stop-and-start oil exports through its northern pipeline to Turkey have been idle for two weeks because of sabotage. 
 Oil is down more than $13.50 from its peak of $55.67 a barrel in late October, as dealers have factored in the effect of higher fuel costs on global economic growth.
 Fearing a counterseason winter buildup in inventories, OPEC producers agreed last month to trim a million barrels a day of excess supply, starting Jan. 1.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since July 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); HEATING OIL (91%); WEATHER (91%); FUTURES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (79%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (79%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (68%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RBS HOLDINGS NV (56%)

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2005



70 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Labor Dispute Halts Music In St. Louis

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
The musicians of the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra either went on strike yesterday or were locked out, depending on whom you ask. Either way, their stage was abandoned, and 33 horn and double-bass players who have been showing up this week for scheduled auditions were left stranded. 
 The development followed an 85-to-3 vote to reject a management contract offer. It was a minor-key coda to a season of labor unrest last fall in four of the nation's so-called Big Five orchestras -- in Philadelphia, Chicago, Cleveland and New York.
 While negotiations were sometimes acrimonious and drawn out in those ensembles, all were settled without work stoppages. (The fifth elite orchestra, the Boston Symphony, was in midcontract.)
 But it was in St. Louis, where labor relations had seemed like a love fest, that a major American orchestra stopped playing.
 ''There were no histrionics whatsoever,'' Jan Gippo, a piccolo player and the leader of the musicians committee said. ''We've always been extraordinarily cordial.'' But Mr. Gippo said a ''philosophical difference'' over how to spend endowment money had led to the vote against the contract.
 The contract expired on Sunday night. It called for a minimum yearly salary of $73,180 for a 42-week season, although players can earn much more with extras. That agreement had already provided for an 8 percent pay cut amid a financial crisis. This time, management offered $72,600 at the end of four years, saying it needed to raise more endowment money to finance increases.
 Mr. Gippo said the orchestra would have accepted the contract if management had promised to apply $2 million of the $20 million in additional endowment money he said was expected to be raised to help pay salaries directly. The orchestra's main endowment has risen to $76 million from $18 million four seasons ago. 
 Mr. Gippo said that the players' audition committee was ready to hear aspirants for a horn and a double-bass opening yesterday and today, but that management refused to let them. He also said the musicians would be willing to continue negotiating and playing -- but at their current salary, a proposal he said management also rejected. Rehearsals were to start tomorrow for concerts on Friday and Saturday.
 Randy Adams, the orchestra's president, said that years of profligacy meant that financial rigor had to be applied. Mr. Adams said endowment money should be restricted from operating costs, although he offered to give extra pay based on future endowment increases.
 ''It's obviously painful for everybody,'' he said of the shutdown. ''But we will get past this.'' 
 A management spokesman, Jeff Trammell, called the musicians' actions a ''work stoppage.''
 The impasse comes as a blow to the symphony, which seemed to be making strides after nearly going bankrupt in 2000 and after the debilitating illness and death of its former music director, Hans Vonk. The hiring of David Robertson, a darling of the critics, as music director next season had brought a sense of excitement to the orchestra, whose playing had been built up by Mr. Vonk and his predecessor, Leonard Slatkin. Nevertheless, the orchestra predicts a $1.9 million deficit this season. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (91%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); STRIKES (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); LOCKOUTS (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%) Music; Strikes ; Wages and Salaries; Lockouts

ORGANIZATION: St Louis Symphony Orchestra

PERSON: Daniel J Wakin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%) MISSOURI, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (77%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2005



71 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: Market Place; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Cash Flow in '04 Found Its Way Into Dividends 

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
American companies stepped up their dividend increases in 2004, buoyed by strong cash flows and by a changed tax law that made dividends more attractive to shareholders.
 But the really good news for shareholders on the dividend front was that the number of negative dividend actions hit a record low of just 64. Of those, 35 were announcements of dividend cuts and 29 were decisions to omit dividends entirely.
 Companies are always reluctant to take such steps, which often reflect financial distress. With profits generally rising last year, the number of companies that decided to do so fell 38.5 percent last year, from a total of 104 in 2003, according to data released yesterday by Standard & Poor's. 
 The previous record low for negative dividend actions came in 1997, when there were 98 such moves. The data go back to 1955.
 S.&P. said that 1,745 dividend increases were reported by companies in 2004, up 7.2 percent from the previous year and the highest for any year since 1998. It was the third consecutive year that the number of increases had risen, after plunging to 1,326 in the recession year of 2001. That had been the lowest number since the previous recession, in 1991.
 ''Full-year dividend increases show a greater willingness on the part of U.S. corporations to reward their shareholders,'' said Joseph Lisanti, the editor of The Outlook, a newsletter published by S.&P. ''With corporations sitting on billions of dollars in cash, and dividends taxed at low rates, Standard & Poor's expects even more increases in 2005.''
 Dividends are now taxed at a maximum of 15 percent, the same rate as long-term capital gains. Before the changes in the tax law, which took effect in May 2003, dividends were taxed at ordinary income tax rates, which now range up to 35 percent, a fact that some companies cited in not paying dividends or in paying only small ones. They argued that it was more tax-efficient to return capital to shareholders by buying back shares.
 ''For many years, companies dismissed dividends as basically old-fashioned,'' Mr. Lisanti said. ''The change in the tax law makes it harder for companies to use the tax laws as an excuse not to pay dividends.''
 Although the changed tax law removed one argument against dividends, it did not remove what may be the most important one for many companies: the fact that many managers own relatively few shares, but own numerous stock options. Dividends usually do not benefit options holders. 
 Indeed, a smaller proportion of corporate profits are being paid in dividends than was the case decades ago, before options became an important part of compensation for most executives.
 Among the 500 companies in the S.&P. 500-stock index, total dividends paid in 2004 reached $213.6 billion, a record. It would have been a record even without including the $32.6 billion one-time dividend paid by Microsoft. The previous record was the payout of $160.8 billion in 2003.
 ''For 2005, the question is who will jump on the Microsoft bandwagon and pay an extra'' dividend, said Howard Silverblatt, a market equity analyst with S.&P., who noted that cash levels at companies in the index were at record high levels. Mr. Silverblatt said he expected at least a couple to follow by February. The seasonal high for dividend increases comes from December to February, as companies calculate their annual profits.
 In December, 167 companies announced increases, including General Electric, Boeing and Walt Disney. That was up from 136 in 2003.
 One sign that dividends today are less important than they were many years ago is that the companies in the S.&P. 500 paid out just 34 percent of reported profits in dividends last year, far below the historical average of 54 percent.
 In 2004, the S.&P. 500 had a total return for investors of 10.9 percent, with dividends accounting for just 1.9 percentage points of that return -- or 17 percent of the total return.
 While the total return was similar to the average since 1926 of 10.5 percent, dividends on average have provided 41 percent of the total return.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''A Year That Paid Off''How companies handled their dividends and payouts in 2004.Graph tracks the following:Positive dividend actions in 2004Companies reporting special dividendsUp 7.4 percent, the highest since 1989.Dividend increases announcedUp 7.1 percent, the highest since 1998.Companies resuming payoutsGraph tracks the following:Negative dividend actions in 2004Down 38.5 percent to the lowest since Standard & Poor's began collecting the data in 1955.Payouts reducedPayouts eliminated(Source by Standard & Poor's)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVIDENDS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); CASH FLOW (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); BONDS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); STOCK OPTIONS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); INCOME TAX (75%) Stocks and Bonds; Capital Gains Tax; Taxation; Records and Achievements; Two Thousand Four (Year); Law and Legislation ; Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: Standard & Poor's Corp

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2005



72 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: Thai Resort Tries to Regain Its Footing

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: PHUKET, Thailand, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
When Craig S. Smith surveys the JW Marriott Phuket Resort and Spa, he sees more than an unchanged tableau of tropical palms and white canvas beach umbrellas. He sees his occupancy rate dropping like a stone: from 100 percent on Christmas Day, to 50 percent one week after the tsunamis, to 38 percent this week.
 Barraged by images of the destruction of two smaller nearby resort areas, foreign tourists have been canceling or rerouting from Phuket, Thailand's main southern tourist destination and its largest island, a place where most hotels emerged unscathed.
 ''When Colin Powell comes here Tuesday, I hope the television reports will pick up that 75 percent of Phuket's beaches are normal, that 90 percent of the hotel rooms are open,'' the Marriott general manager, an American, said, hoping to rescue some of his peak season.
 The visit here Tuesday of Secretary of State Powell and Jeb Bush, the governor of Florida, is expected to focus on how the United States can help Phuket, Thailand's top resort destination, get back on its feet. Low-interest loans will be needed for the hotels and shops destroyed by the tidal waves of Dec. 26. But hoteliers and business owners hope that the high-profile American visit will give foreign tourists a very visible endorsement that Phuket, which brings in hundreds of millions of dollars a year in tourism, is once again safe for vacationers. 
 Marketed as Thailand's Pearl of the South, this teardrop-shaped island, once obscure, had become a major international destination, drawing direct flights from 13 Asian and European cities. With five daily flights from Singapore and Kuala Lumpur and a British-run international school, the Dulwich International College, some expatriate executives were leading a commuter life, leaving their families every Monday morning for a 90-minute shuttle flight, returning Friday afternoon. With daily direct flights from Frankfurt, Europeans have become major buyers here of vacation and retirement homes. Flights have not been canceled. 
 Until the tidal wave hit, Thai tourism was expanding at a steady clip, strengthening its role as a pillar of the nation's economy, bringing in billions of dollars a year. After drawing 10 million tourists in 2003, foreign arrivals hit 6.6 million in the first seven months of 2004, up 27 percent. Tourism from the United States jumped 29 percent in the period, to 363,718.
 ''A real estate agent friend of mine has gotten about five calls asking if there is a fire sale,'' Peter Notley, the British sales manager for about 40 condominiums and villas in the Kata beach area, said. ''Every sensible person realizes that this is a one-off thing and that Phuket will recover rather quickly.''
 Larry Cunningham, managing director of Phuket One Real Estate, moved into a new beachfront office on Christmas Day, only to see the new offices and computer files wiped out by the tidal waves 24 hours later. But the water damaged only a handful of the 1,000 properties he represents for sale or rent. Most new properties built here conform to a law establishing 150-yard setbacks from the shoreline, limiting damage. Before the tidal wave hit, there were 14,450 hotel rooms on Phuket Island. Virtually all are still there, but several hundred are not usable. 
 ''It was a one-in-a-million situation,'' Mr. Cunningham, an Australian, said on Sunday of the tidal waves. ''Phuket will certainly recover fast as it has much better infrastructure than other areas hit.''
 Tourism in Bali has bounced back to near normal levels two years after the terrorist bombing there.
 In an indication of Thailand's determination to bring back Phuket, Thaksin Shinawatra, the nation's prime minister, toured here Sunday, promising aid for rebuilding the island, which is believed to have Thailand's highest per capita income.
 So far, the state Bank of Thailand has approved the granting of nearly $1 billion in low-interest loans to tsunami victims and the government has pledged $800 million more in grants to affected people and businesses. International hotel chains are expected to tap into foreign credit lines and insurance coverage for interruption of business.
 ''Rebuild it and they will come'' was the headline of The Phuket Gazette editorial that greeted the prime minister on his tour here. The prime minister, sometimes criticized for his authoritarian ways, told reporters here that damaged commercial coastal areas should be rebuilt in a more attractive way, obeying setback regulations. In Patong beach, an area he visited, local authorities are taking advantage of the destruction to clear damaged squatter buildings from beachfront areas.
 ''The most urgent priority is not the big five-star hotels, but the smaller hotels, the ones where tourists feel a connection,'' Sean Boonpracong, professor of Southeast Asian Studies at Chulalongkorn University, said Sunday after touring Phuket.
 Despite the investment plans, southern Thailand is bracing for a short, sharp business downturn for the second half of its peak season. Eighty percent of all real estate sales in Phuket are made from November to February.
 About 90 percent of Phuket's hotel rooms are intact, but bookings are suffering from the devastation of two nearby resort areas, the Phi Phi Islands and Khao Lak, a nature reserve. The tidal waves flattened these two resorts, killing thousands of foreign tourists, largely Northern Europeans.
 ''My parents want me to come home now, but it is very cold, very windy in Norway,'' Ben R. Berntsen, a 28-year-old oil tanker seaman, said as he relaxed in shorts and a T-shirt at a sidewalk cafe about 50 yards from the wrecked buildings of Patong. ''I don't think it will happen for another 50 years, so I am not scared,'' he said of the disaster. ''It's safe to be here, so I will come back, maybe next year.''
 Nearby, at the Baan Sukhothai Hotel and Spa, Rujirapa Pornmanee, a manager, walked by the hotel's tropical gardens, goldfish ponds and swimming pool. Everything looked pretty much like the color photos in her glossy brochures. She had sent letters, e-mail messages and photographs, ''but the Japanese keep canceling.''
 Phuket's largest entertainment complex, Phuket FantaSea, was barely touched by the tsunamis, but it is expecting a 50 percent drop in its normal winter-season flow of 3,000 to 6,000 visitors daily, about 40 percent of them foreigners, The Nation newspaper reported Friday.
 While some tourists have stayed here, some have simply moved to a different part of Thailand. Seats are hard to find on Bangkok Air's new direct flights from here, across the Gulf of Thailand, to the untouched beach resort of Pattaya. To minimize economic damage to the nation, Thai and foreign officials stress that most tourist destinations in Thailand are unaffected.
 ''The great majority of Thailand is exactly as it was before the disaster,'' Edward J. Wehrli, consul general at the American Embassy in Bangkok, said here Saturday. ''Every year, 500,000 Americans visit Thailand. The United States government has by no means suggested that people should not come to Thailand.''
 And perhaps some economic good may emerge from the disaster. The outpouring of American concern and aid for Thailand could translate into support in Washington for a free trade agreement between the two countries. Last summer, a free trade pact with Australia sailed through the United States Congress, helped in large part by Congressional gratitude for Australian support in Iraq.
 ''A free trade agreement with Thailand makes sense for the U.S. and Thailand on its own merits,'' Alexander A. Arvizu, the deputy chief of mission at the American Embassy in Thailand said while touring here Saturday. ''I hope these tragic events will highlight that we are serious partners.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Tourists were few and far between on Patong beach, Phuket Island, Thailand, on Sunday, but they were out. On a different part of the beach, below, crews worked yesterday to clean up debris from the devastation that hit almost a week ago. (Photo by Chris McGrath/Getty Images)
(Photo by Kees Metselaar/Bloomberg News)(pg. C1)
Craig S. Smith, general manager of JW Marriott Phuket Resort and Spa, supervised cleanup on Sunday. (Photo by Jean Chung for The New York Times)(pg. C5)Maps of Thailand highlighting Phuket Island: Phuket was mostly spared
 the Phi Phi Islands and Khao Lak were not. (pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (91%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (90%); LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); TSUNAMIS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (89%); BEACHES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); TOURISM (76%); GOVERNORS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%) Earthquakes; Earthquakes; Tidal Waves; United States International Relations; Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (92%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%)

PERSON: Colin Powell; Jeb (Gov) Bush; James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) THAILAND (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Thailand; Phuket (Thailand)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2005



73 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Shopping Spree That Wasn't As Markdowns Hurt Retailers 

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON

 BODY:
If 2003 was the full-price Christmas, 2004 was the season of the last-minute markdown as merchants, led by Wal-Mart Stores, scrambled to cut prices before and after Dec. 25, in many cases choosing sales gains over higher profits.
 Wal-Mart, the nation's largest retailer, announced yesterday that it ended the year ahead of its most recent sales forecast, in part because it began lowering some prices immediately after a lackluster Thanksgiving weekend. 
 Looking ahead to Christmas, and not liking what they saw, Wal-Mart executives in late November marked down 24 of the store's most popular toys and electronics to generate traffic. Instead of the 2 percent gain in December sales that Wal-Mart forecast last week, the company said yesterday that the figure was closer to 3 percent. Shares of Wal-Mart rose $1.37, to $54.19, in early trading yesterday and closed up 53 cents, at $53.35. 
 Wal-Mart executives said the increase was the result of higher-than-expected sales in the week after Christmas, many of which came from customers using gift cards to buy food and electronics.
 Fearing the mediocre sales that so many had predicted, department stores and specialty shops sharply marked down merchandise -- particularly clothes -- in the week before and after Christmas. The strategy brought a surge in traffic for many stores, but analysts said yesterday in reports and interviews that they were concerned that so many markdowns might hurt profits. 
 ''We saw some of the most excessive markdowns at stores, including Ann Taylor, the Gap and the Limited's Express division,'' said Mark A. Friedman, a first vice president at Merrill Lynch, who covers retail stocks. Asked if he was concerned about the level of markdowns, he said, ''Yes, we think there will be more earnings pressure,'' which may mean lower earnings.
 Merrill Lynch, Mr. Friedman said, has reduced its estimates for the Gap and Limited Brands ''on the basis of these markdowns.''
 Representatives of the Limited and Ann Taylor did not return calls or e-mail messages yesterday. The Gap said it did not comment on earnings until they are announced.
 Elizabeth O. Pierce, an analyst for Sanders Morris Harris in Los Angeles, said she was concerned about the Gap. ''In our view, the discounts were deep enough to hurt margins, potentially creating downside risk'' for earnings, she wrote in a report issued yesterday.
 Eric Beder, senior analyst with JB Hanauer, said he was ''very wary'' about the discount department store sector -- merchants like Target and Big Lots -- especially now that higher energy prices ''are here to stay.''
 Target did not return a call for comment; a spokeswoman for Big Lots, Keriake Lucas, said the company had no comment.
 Mr. Beder did not mention Kmart, which announced yesterday that sales at stores open at least a year declined 2.6 percent in December from the previous year. Kmart executives said they were pleased because that was better than the 12.8 percent decline for the third quarter. Shares of Kmart rose $1.15 yesterday, to $100.10.
 For Todd D. Slater, the director for retail research at Lazard, the surge in traffic came too late for many merchants. He said it would be difficult for some retailers to meet profit forecasts. 
 Mr. Slater predicted sales declines for most department stores, except for the high-end stores like Neiman Marcus. Not only that, but Mr. Slater, like many of his colleagues, said that year-to-year comparisons were only going to get tougher. He predicted that earnings would decelerate as profit margins get smaller. Along with analysts from other companies, Lazard was particularly concerned about margins at Ann Taylor and Express.
 Yet when the December same-store sales, a popular measure that compares the performance of stores open at least a year, are released on Thursday, there will certainly be some winners. Abercrombie & Fitch, analysts said, apparently managed to do what others could not: potentially increase its profit by holding off promotions until later than many other chains. 
 Merrill Lynch is predicting a year-to-year gain of 1 percent to 3 percent for Abercrombie -- which does not sound that great but contrasts sharply with a 13 percent decline in sales for December a year ago.
 While the sales were extensive at Aeropostale, the chain managed to inject enough fresh product -- new, full-price spring fashions -- to make analysts expect its sales to jump into the mid-single digits for December. 
 American Eagle Outfitters, in the midst of a turnaround, is expected to have increases as high as 20 percent, by some analysts' projections.
 Ms. Pierce praised American Eagle for its holiday gift offerings under $30 and its collection of new spring goods, delivered on Dec. 24, ''featuring graphic T-shirts, polos, hoodies and skirts.'' 
 Yesterday, Mr. Friedman said that while the performance among individual companies in the retail sector ranged from weak to strong, he was most concerned about men's clothing, which had rebounded after about five years of weakness. ''The difficulty is going to be the sustainability of the men's market,'' he said, ''and will depend largely on the excitement the manufacturers offer in 2005.''
 Meanwhile, analysts like Mr. Slater and Mr. Friedman said they worried about the clothing business this year, particularly in what analysts agreed was a volatile market.
 ''Given the tough comparisons,'' said Mr. Friedman, referring to the generally successful sales figures from a year ago, ''with an economy that's healthy but hard to know if it's accelerating or decelerating,'' there will be some risk in 2005. 
 Mr. Friedman attributed part of the improved 2004 performance to new clothing colors like apple green and raspberry red. In addition, retailers that caught the trend were helped by new styles -- like the boldly striped shirts for men and the shorter, more fitted jackets for women. The more expensive and well-made merchandise, especially accessories from Coach, Burberry and Louis Vuitton, also did well.
 He questioned, however, how much longer the results could last. ''We're now 18 months into the fashion cycle,'' Mr. Friedman said. ''And fashion cycles last 12 to 24 months.''
 In this latter stage, he said, the hard part will be to keep the consumer buying. Most retail executives concede privately that, aside from a few mega-successes like American Eagle, this was not a Christmas for clothes buying, or, as Mr. Friedman put it: ''In retrospect, things were not aligned for apparel this season.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sylvia Nowak shopped at a Wal-Mart in Wheeling, Ill., in early December. But not everyone filled their trunks. Many companies opted to go for higher sales even if that meant cutting into profits. (Photo by Tim Boyle/Getty Images)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (95%); CHRISTMAS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); THANKSGIVING (73%); INTERVIEWS (69%) Retail Stores and Trade; Christmas; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (87%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Kmart Holding Corp

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (87%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (87%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (87%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: Tracie Rozhon

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2005



74 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Year Starts on Down Note, Defying Oil Prices and History

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street began 2005 with a loss as investors shored up portfolios and abandoned risky positions taken during the post-election rally. Yesterday's drop came despite declining oil prices and a better-than-expected sales forecast from Wal-Mart Stores.
 While Wall Street has usually opened the new year with a buying spree, investors were picky, favoring large-capitalization companies with solid balance sheets over small capitalization issues and more speculative bets. 
 ''Usually, you see a lot more speculative trading to start the new year, with all the new money coming in,'' said Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank in Chicago. ''But here, you're seeing a big move to quality, large-cap stocks. I think there's been a realization that these stocks are attractively priced.'' 
 As investors sold stocks, they overlooked a sharp drop in crude oil futures prices in reaction to mild weather in the Northeast and reports of increased crude production. The drop could be good news for consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of the nation's economy. A barrel of light crude was quoted at $42.12, down $1.33, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 53.58, or 0.5 percent, to 10,729.43. Broader stock indicators also declined. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 9.84, or 0.8 percent, at 1,202.08, and the Nasdaq composite index lost 23.29, or 1.1 percent, to 2,152.15.
 A mix of economic news further sapped any momentum stocks might have enjoyed. Construction spending showed unexpected weakness in November, falling 0.4 percent, the Commerce Department said. Investors expected a rise of 0.4 percent after the 0.3 percent gain in October.
 The Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index rose to 58.6 in December, from 57.8 in the previous month, edging past Wall Street's prediction of 58.5. The index measures the strength of manufacturing activity in the United States. 
 While the majority of retailers are expected to report their holiday sales results on Thursday, Wal-Mart gave Wall Street a preview of its results, which were better than expected and ignited hope that other retailers would fare similarly.
 Sales at Wal-Mart stores open at least a year rose 3 percent for December, prompted by strong after-Christmas sales. The company's previous forecasts were in the middle of a 1 percent to 3 percent range. Wal-Mart gained 53 cents to close at $53.35.
 Shares of Walgreen gained $2.01, to close at $40.38, after the company reported a 30.5 percent increase in profit, crediting increases in prescription and general merchandise sales. The company exceeded Wall Street earnings forecasts by 2 cents a share.
 Kmart Holding said its sales at stores open at least a year declined 4.6 percent for November and December -- an improvement over past sales declines for the company. Kmart climbed $1.15, to close at $100.10.
 Analysts at Goldman Sachs increased their earnings targets for Google and Yahoo, saying advertising revenue would increase through the early part of the year. Yahoo rose 50 cents, to $38.18, while Google gained $9.92, to $202.71.
 The decline in oil prices hurt related stocks. ChevronTexaco slid $1.61, to $50.90; ConocoPhillips lost $2.72, to $84.11; and Exxon Mobil fell $1.17, to $50.09.
 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by more than five to two on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume was 1.51 billion shares, compared with 821 million on Friday.
 Interest rates on Treasury securities were mixed yesterday. By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note rose 2/32, to 100 9/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.21 percent, from 4.22 percent on Friday. The price of the five-year note fell 2/32, to 99 14/32, and the yield rose to 3.62 percent, from 3.61 percent. 
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.425	98.706	High Rate	2.275	2.560	Investment Rate	2.320	2.630	Low Rate	2.240	2.540	Median Rate	2.270	2.550	Total applied for	$49,102,249	$54,143,152	Accepted	$25,176,689	$23,176,652	Noncompetitive	$1,620,595	$1,057,301	

Both issues are dated Jan. 06, 2005. The three-month bills mature on April 07, 2005 and the six-month bills mature on July 07, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph tracks 3-Month Treasury Bills, high rate at weekly auction since September. (Source by The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); BONDS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (87%); SALES FIGURES (79%); FUTURES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); CHRISTMAS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); BOND MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); WEATHER (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (66%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); INTEREST RATES (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (83%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (64%); WAL-MART STORES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2005



75 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: India's Boom Spreads to Smaller Cities

BYLINE: By SARITHA RAI

DATELINE: COIMBATORE, India 

 BODY:
When the first Kentucky Fried Chicken outlet opened in India, in the technology hub of Bangalore in 1995, the welcoming committee was largely absent. It was just four years after India opened its economy to outsiders, and the outlet quickly became a target of irate farmers, Hindu nationalists and others decrying what they saw as the encroachment of the corrupt, and corruptive, West.
 KFC's parent, Yum Brands, now has 100 KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants in India, 30 opened in 2004, and a goal of 1,000 by 2014. To realize such growth, the chains have begun a seemingly inexorable march into the country's smaller boomtowns, cities like Coimbatore and Cochin in the south, and Jaipur and Meerut in the north, where middle-class Indians -- who increasingly crave localized Western foods, regional flavors and ingredients infused into the pizza, pasta or poultry -- have hailed their arrival. 
 The tsunamis that hit on Dec. 26 devastated the Andaman and Nicobar Islands in the Bay of Bengal and coastal villages in the southeastern state of Tamil Nadu, leaving 11,000 deaths in their wake. The country's cities were untouched, and despite the huge loss of life, little overall economic fallout is expected.
 As India's galloping economy has extended to its smaller cities, a younger population with expendable income is finding many Western and upmarket domestic products, brands and services increasingly accessible. 
 Nearly 35 Indian cities have a population exceeding a million, and proliferating shopping malls cater to the rapidly growing consumer class.
 ''A swelling base of affluent, upwardly mobile consumers with the same needs, wants and desires as the residents of bigger cities is seeking gratification,'' said Vatsala Misra, a consultant with the retail research firm KSA Technopak. With satellite television and the Internet now ubiquitous in smaller cities, she said, ''People are increasingly exposed to how the other half lives, and the aspirational distinctions are blurring.''
 Among the companies seeking customers in these second-tier cities are the athletic-shoe makers Reebok International and Adidas-Salomon, and the cellphone maker Nokia. Bacardi Martini India, a unit of Bacardi Ltd., distributes its alcoholic beverages in 50 Indian cities. Ford's Indian unit said most of its sales growth was coming from outside the primary cities.
 ''When we came in 1996, we set up with 12 dealer facilities in 8 cities; today, we have 90 facilities in 70 cities,'' said Vinay Piparsania, vice president for sales and marketing at Ford India. ''People are finding cars more affordable, with banks chasing customers in smaller cities to offer loans.''
 Here in Coimbatore, population 1.25 million, a manufacturing center close to the garment hub of Tiruppur, people crowded into the Pizza Hut recently, a day after a festival. ''Traditional festival cuisine is vegetarian and we were surprised when 500 customers showed up, a lot of them ordering pizzas with nonvegetarian toppings,'' said Vineet Sharma, area manager of Pizzeria Fast Foods Restaurants (Madras), the franchisee that runs the Coimbatore outlet.
 A local tea factory owner, P.S. Mahendran, 39; his wife, Jayanthi, 30; and their 11-year-old daughter, Arthi, are regulars there. ''We are no less conventional than we were five years ago, but, more and more, we splurge on imported cosmetics, Western brands and international foods,'' Mrs. Mahendran said. Mr. Mahendran, who drives a Mercedes, ordered tandoori chicken pizzas.
 India's demographics support the expansion. According to a report by the National Council for Applied Economic Research, which is based in New Delhi and partly government financed, half of India's 10.7 million households with an income of up to a million rupees ($23,000) are in smaller cities. 
 The report recorded a big rise in the number of rich households, those with incomes of 1 million rupees to 5 million rupees, in smaller cities like Vadodara, Nagpur, Ahmedabad and Vijayawada. And while in 1995 just 2.8 percent of households were counted as middle class, with income of 200,000 rupees to a million rupees, the report projected that 12.8 percent would be counted as such by 2009.
 With a manufacturing boom as well as an expansion of back-office outsourcing into the second-tier cities, ''wealth and purchasing power are no longer a big-city syndrome,'' said the research group's senior fellow and economist, Rajesh Kumar Shukla. ''The urban market is more or less saturated for a lot of products, but in smaller cities consumers are hungry.'' 
 When the Bangalore-based Air Deccan added 22 flights in mid-December, most connected smaller cities like Kanpur, Surat and Jaipur. ''Doing the New Delhi-Mumbai route is a no-brainer,'' said Air Deccan's managing director, G.R. Gopinath. ''The adrenaline rush is in connecting the smaller cities, where life is changing dramatically.''
 Bharti Tele-Ventures, the country's second-largest cellular services company after Reliance Infocomm, rolled out its service in five smaller cities, including Lucknow and Kanpur, in mid-October. By the end of November, it had signed on 100,000 new customers, helped by the fact that at about 2 cents a minute, India has one of the lowest telecommunications costs in the world.
 Contrary to expectations, even premium brands are doing well in second-tier cities. For Bacardi Martini India, the top six Indian cities now account for only 45 percent of sales, compared with 70 percent in 2001. 
 ''We are going in and cashing on the demand that mass media has built up for upscale brands and products,'' said Jayant Kapur, the unit's chairman and managing director. 
 When the country's first lifestyle television channel, Zoom, began broadcasting in late 2004, its promoter, India's largest newspaper publisher, Bennett, Coleman & Company, ensured that its reach extended beyond the biggest cities. 
 People in cities like Ludhiana and Chandigarh, said Arun Arora, president of the company, ''are just as likely to be the first to drive the latest-model foreign cars and gear up in the most expensive clothes and accessories.''
 The growth in smaller cities is not without its challenges, including bad infrastructure and difficult supply logistics.
 And the purchasing boom in cities, both big and not so big, is in sharp contrast to life in villages, where two-thirds of the country's one billion people live and the price of, say, a bottle of Bacardi Rum -- around $10 for 750 milliliters -- equals a farm laborer's weekly earnings.
 But among those newly able to partake, a good many seem eager to do so. Of course, there are still many Indians who spurn Coca-Cola and Pepsi for a glass of nimbu paani (freshly squeezed lemonade).
 But back at the Coimbatore Pizza Hut, the owner of a spinning mill, Ram Kumar, and his wife, Suhasini, both 29 and dressed in jeans and T-shirts, munch on pizza and rue that the city is changing too slowly. There are no pubs, discos or multiplex cinemas. ''Night life is nonexistent,'' lamented Ms. Kumar, who said that Coimbatore could do with ''a lot more brands and entertainment options.''
 Such attitudes are making Pizza Hut project a 40 percent growth rate over the next several years. ''While they hold on to their rich traditions and very strong cultural heritage,'' said Graham Allan, president of Yum Restaurants International, ''small-city consumers are open to new concepts and want to embrace brands openly, making them a very attractive market.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Business was brisk recently at a Pizza Hut in Coimbatore, India. New malls and restaurant chains cater to a growing consumer class. (Photo by Namas Bhojani for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (90%); POULTRY (90%); RETAILERS (89%); FOOTWEAR (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (86%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (86%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (85%); ATHLETIC FOOTWEAR MFG (85%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (84%); MEAT FREE DIETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); SALES FIGURES (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); TRENDS (70%); RETAIL SALES (69%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (68%); FOOTWEAR MFG (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (60%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (50%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (50%) Tidal Waves; Earthquakes ; Economic Conditions and Trends; Consumer Behavior; Population; Retail Stores and Trade; Shopping Centers; Automobiles; Shoes and Boots; Athletics and Sports; Telephones and Telecommunications; Cellular Telephones

COMPANY: BACARDI LTD (81%); ADIDAS AG (81%); YUM! BRANDS INC (58%); PIZZA HUT INC (57%); REEBOK INTERNATIONAL LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Reebok International Ltd; Adidas-Salomon Ag; Nokia; Bacardi Martini India; Ford Motor Co

TICKER: ADS (FRA) (81%); YUM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (81%); NAICS315210 CUT & SEW APPAREL CONTRACTORS (81%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (58%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (52%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (52%)

PERSON: Saritha Rai

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (92%); EAST INDIA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); SOUTH INDIA (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (73%); ANDAMAN & NICOBAR ISLANDS, INDIA (73%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) India; Andaman Island (India); Nicolbar Island (India); Bay of Bengal; Tamil Nadu (India); India; India

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2005



76 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; ASIA'S DEADLY WAVES: DISASTER DONATIONS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Gulf Arabs Wonder: Are They Being Stingy With Aid?

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR; Mona el-Naggar contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: CAIRO, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
The newspaper Al Qabas in Kuwait set off a debate spreading throughout the country and beyond on Monday by suggesting that Kuwait deserves its reputation for being cheap and oblivious to people who go there to work as servants, given the relatively low level of aid it has donated to the tsunami victims at a time when the state treasury is bursting with an oil bonanza. 
 Noting that the bulk of the nannies, drivers, menial laborers and other servants who keep most households running in the emirate come from Southeast Asia -- imported workers easily outnumber the native population -- some Kuwaitis agree that the country and its Persian Gulf neighbors need to be doing much more. 
 But the campaign to shut down Islamic charities accused of financing terrorism has left many people confused about where to turn when they do want to donate money. And a few extremist Friday Prayer leaders and other religious commentators fueled the uncertainty by suggesting that the tsunami destruction was the wrath of God. 
 Gauging the extent of private donations for the region proved difficult because nobody seems to be collecting the information. 
 Many donations are channeled through the government-backed Red Crescent societies, but senior officials either did not return phone calls or said they were too busy to make a tally. There were random charitable acts around the region. 
 In an echo of the debate about skinflints that occurred in the United States over the government's level of aid, though, a front-page editorial in Al Qabas on Sunday said gulf Arabs had an obligation to dig deeper in their pockets for the people of Southeast Asia because of the longstanding ties between the two regions. 
 ''We have to give them more; we are rich,'' Waleed al-Nusif, the editor in chief of Al Qabas, said in a telephone interview. ''The price of oil doubled, so we have no excuse.''
 After the paper's editorial appeared, the Kuwaiti cabinet raised its announced donation on Sunday to $10 million, from $2 million, having previously doubled it. 
 Kuwait is expected to run a budget surplus this year of roughly $10 billion, and Mr. Nusif noted that the government had just distributed an estimated $700 million to the Kuwaiti people themselves, the public share of the unanticipated revenue.
 He said Kuwait should give a minimum of $100 million, not least because many of the country's 1.29 million foreigners of a total population of 2.25 million come from the devastated regions. 
 ''They built Kuwait, and they raised our children,'' said Mr. Nusif, noting that before successive oil booms, India and other countries opened their doors to Kuwaitis, who were then relatively poor. The paper also advised Kuwaitis to check with their housemaids to see if they wanted to phone home in case family members were dead or missing. 
 It was not the kind of reminder necessary for an older generation of Kuwaitis, Mr. Nusif said. ''Our fathers were more generous than we are,'' he said. ''They had suffered more.'' 
 The editorial became the hot topic in diwaniyas, the nightly salons where men gather to chew over the issues of the day. 
 ''We should show more sympathy, especially since we have a budget surplus and these are our neighbors in Southeast Asia,'' said Saad al-Ajmi, a former Kuwaiti minister of information. He believes more private donations will be coming.
 The Qabas editorial did not cite Kuwait alone in seeking to fatten donations. It said all the Arab gulf countries benefiting from huge oil revenues should give more. 
 Qatar and Saudi Arabia have each pledged $10 million, while Sheik Khalifa bin Zayed al-Nahayan, the ruler of the United Arab Emirates, raised his country's cash contribution tenfold, to $20 million, on Monday night. 
 Most pledges from the gulf Arab nations were made in the first hours after the earthquake, and as the scale becomes apparent, more money will be pledged, officials said. 
 The Islamic Development Bank in Jidda, Saudi Arabia, said it would distribute $10 million in emergency aid to Indonesia, the Maldives, Somalia, Thailand, India and Sri Lanka. The Thai Embassy in Kuwait said some people were dropping by to give money, with one business phoning to say it wanted to bring $14,000.
 The Kuwaiti Embassy in Jakarta announced that it was chartering a ship to deliver aid to devastated Aceh Province in Indonesia.
 In Riyadh, the Saudi capital, Dr. Saleh al-Tuwaijri, vice president of the Saudi Red Crescent Society, said the government's $10 million donation would go directly to sister organizations in the affected countries. 
 He said that per capita giving in the gulf was generally high, but that ordinary citizens faced obstacles to making donations because so many private charities had been closed under American pressure on suspicion of helping finance terrorism. No replacement mechanism has been established, which makes public fund-raising difficult, he said.
 In Kuwait, some charities drew fire by advertising that they were collecting money for Muslim victims. Indonesia, the hardest-hit country, is the most populous Muslim nation. 
 ''I don't know why only Muslims, when disasters do not differentiate between religions in choosing their victims,'' Muhammad Mousaed al-Saleh, a columnist, wrote in Al Qabas. The daily paper published a religious ruling, saying donating to non-Muslims is permissible. 
 The view that wanton behavior provoked the quake was the subject of Friday sermons in Saudi Arabia and of other religious commentaries. 
 ''Asia's earthquake, which hit the beaches of prostitution, tourism, immorality and nudity,'' one commentator said on an Islamist Web site, ''is a sign that God is warning mankind from persisting in injustice and immorality before he destroys the ground beneath them.''
 Walid Tabtabai, a member of the Kuwaiti Parliament, said the earthquake was a message. 
 ''We believe that what occurs in terms of disasters and afflictions is a test for believers and punishment for the unjust,'' he wrote in a column in the newspaper Al Watan.

HOW TO HELP
Aid Agencies Helping Disaster Victims
An expanded list is online at nytimes.com/international. The Times does not certify charities' fund allocations or administrative costs. Guidance is online at www.guidestar.org.

ACTION AGAINST HUNGER
247 West 37th Street, Suite 1201
New York, N.Y. 10018
212-967-7800 x108
www.ActionAgainstHunger.org

AMERICARES
88 Hamilton Avenue
Stamford, Conn. 06902
800-486-4357
www.americares.org

CARE
151 Ellis Street
Atlanta, Ga. 30303
800-521-CARE
www.care.org

AMERICAN RED CROSS
International Response Fund
P.O. Box 37243
Washington, D.C. 20013
800-HELP NOW
www.RedCross.org

CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES
Tsunami Emergency
P.O. Box 17090
Baltimore, Md. 21203-7090
800-736-3467
www.CatholicRelief.org

DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS
P.O. Box 1856
Merrifield, Va. 22116-8056
888-392-0392
www.DoctorsWithoutBorders.org

INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION
OF RED CROSS/RED CRESCENT
www.ifrc.org

GLOBAL FUND FOR CHILDREN
1101 14th Street NW
Suite 910
Washington, D.C. 20005
202-331-9003
www.globalfundforchildren.org

INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL CORPS
Earthquake/Tsunami Relief
1919 Santa Monica Boulevard, Suite 300
Santa Monica, Calif. 90404
800-481-4462
www.IMCworldwide.org

INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE
P.O. Box 5058
Hagerstown, Md. 21741-9874
877-REFUGEE or 733-8433
www.theIRC.org

ISLAMIC RELIEF USA
S.E. Asia Earthquake Emergency
P.O. Box 6098
Burbank, Calif. 91510
888-479-4968
www.irw.org/asiaquake
LUTHERAN WORLD RELIEF
www.lwr.org

OXFAM AMERICA
Donor Services Department
26 West Street
Boston, Mass. 12111-1206
800-77-OXFAM
www.OxfamAmerica.org

SAVE THE CHILDREN
Asia Earthquake/
Tidal Wave Relief Fund
54 Wilton Road
Westport, Conn. 06880
800-728-3843
www.SaveTheChildren.org

UNICEF
General Emergency Fund
333 E. 38th Street
New York, N.Y. 10016
800-4-UNICEF
www.unicefusa.org

WORLD FOOD PROGRAM
2 U.N. Plaza, DC2-2500
New York, N.Y.10017
www.wfp.org


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''The Death Toll''Estimated deaths across the region as of 5 p.m. Monday.Map of affected areas highlighting estimated death tolls.INDONESIA: 100,000SRI LANKA: 30,196MYANMAR: 90THAILAND: 5,187MALAYSIA: 68MALDIVES: 85BANGLADESH: 2In East AfricaSOMALIA: 200KENYA: 1TANZANIA: 10Chart: ''An Outpouring of Aid''Japan tops the list of the 10 highest contributors to Southeast Asian countries damaged by the recent tsunami. But of the 10, Denmark and Sweden are the most generous, and the United States and China the least, when the contributions are figured as a percentage of the country's gross domestic product. Figures are reported pledges and commitments from donor countries.JapanAS PERCENTAGE OF 2004 G.D.P.: 0.014TOTAL in millions: United$500 StatesAS PERCENTAGE OF 2004 G.D.P.: 0.003TOTAL in millions: 350FranceAS PERCENTAGE OF 2004 G.D.P.: 0.006TOTAL in millions: 103BritainAS PERCENTAGE OF 2004 G.D.P.: 0.006TOTAL in millions: 94SwedenAS PERCENTAGE OF 2004 G.D.P.: 0.031TOTAL in millions: 74CanadaAS PERCENTAGE OF 2004 G.D.P.: 0.007TOTAL in millions: 67ChinaAS PERCENTAGE OF 2004 G.D.P.: 0.001TOTAL in millions: 63DenmarkAS PERCENTAGE OF 2004 G.D.P.: 0.033TOTAL in millions: 55AustraliaAS PERCENTAGE OF 2004 G.D.P.: 0.008TOTAL in millions: 47NetherlandsAS PERCENTAGE OF 2004 G.D.P.: 0.007TOTAL in millions: 32(Sources by United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
 C.I.A. World Factbook [estimated 2004 G.D.P.])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); TSUNAMIS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); TERRORISM (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%) Earthquakes; Foreign Aid ; Philanthropy; Islam; Tidal Waves ; Earthquakes

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR THE COORDINATION OF HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS (59%) Al Qabas (Kuwaiti Newspaper)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%)

PERSON: Neil Macfarquhar

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) KUWAIT (97%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); QATAR (79%); GULF STATES (79%); EGYPT (79%); MALDIVES (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KENYA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDONESIA (79%); DENMARK (79%); MYANMAR (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (59%) Kuwait; Saudi Arabia; United Arab Emirates; Qatar; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2005



77 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Raining Money

 BODY:
The greatest outpouring of disaster relief on record has been promised for the victims of the worst natural disaster of our time, a stupendous display of good will and empathy for the huge suffering and loss in Indonesia, Sri Lanka, Thailand, India, Somalia and the other devastated countries. Now, how does the world get it to those who need it?
 President Bush, who embarrassed Americans with his initial offer of a piddling $15 million, should be commended for increasing the government's pledge to $350 million. Japan quickly followed suit, raising its promised amount to $500 million from $30 million. And Norway, just yesterday, announced that it is adding $160 million to its initial pledge, for a total of about $180 million, a whopping amount from a country with a gross domestic product figure that's half the size of New Jersey's. 
 The foremost challenge now is to ensure that the money pledged in the glow of the media spotlight gets to the people who need it. That is the job of the United Nations, which has a chance to redeem itself after the oil-for-food scandal. It must make sure that the money is not diverted into the hands of corrupt government officials or used as a political weapon by armies waging counterinsurgency campaigns in some of the most stricken areas.
 Right now in Indonesia, cartons of food, water and medical supplies are stacking up in airports, not getting to the villages that were hit the hardest. Part of the problem is the Indonesian military. Complaints have already arisen about soldiers siphoning off supplies for their relatives and friends. But Indonesian government officials bear some blame. Take, for example, the remarkably callous dismissal of reports of hungry families in leveled towns made by Alwi Shihab, the country's senior disaster response coordinator: ''I can guarantee you there is no starvation, except for me, because I didn't have lunch today.'' This is hardly the face the Indonesian government should want to present to a traumatized population. 
 Furthermore, the money must be sent, not just pledged. The Bush administration is notorious for promising wonderful pots of money when the cameras are rolling -- the Monterey summit meeting on poverty nearly three years ago comes to mind -- and then failing to follow through once the attention fades. Victims of the earthquake in Bam, Iran, a year ago are still living in tents because aid, including American aid, has fallen short. In 2002 in Monterey, Mr. Bush announced a Millennium Challenge Account to give African nations development assistance of up to $5 billion a year. We're still waiting for the account to actually hand out so much as a dollar. 
 Of more lasting importance than getting money to the tsunami victims is working to ensure that when the next disaster hits, fewer are killed. That can happen only if America and other rich countries spend more on development aid, not just disaster relief. Emergency aid is a Band-Aid; development aid is a vaccine. Rich countries like America and the European nations have the firm foundations necessary to help fight nature's wrath, including early warning systems and sound housing structures. Last fall, severe storms hit Haiti and Florida. Haiti lost around 2,000 lives; Florida lost about 100.
 The horrific casualties inflicted by the tsunamis are the face of poverty today. So many lives could have been spared with basic things like an emergency response system or local shelters built on high ground. 
 The aid to the tsunami victims must not come out of the same pot used for development aid. It's clear that in the yearly lottery of disaster aid, the tsunami survivors will get the most. But that doesn't mean that the eight million people who die every year from preventable diseases like malaria should end up losers -- again. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 27, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An editorial on Jan. 4 incorrectly described the American role in helping victims of the earthquake in Bam, Iran. The United States delivered on its pledge within days. It was not among the countries that failed to meet their commitments. An editorial on Jan. 21 about a proposal to make Jacques Chirac a senator after he finishes his term as French president incorrectly said that legislation doing so had been introduced. The bill's author said he had decided to do further work after it came under public criticism. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (91%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TSUNAMIS (89%); EARTHQUAKES (89%); STARVATION (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (77%); SCANDALS (76%); ARMIES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (70%); CORRUPTION (66%); ETHICS (66%); ARMED FORCES (65%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%) Earthquakes; Editorials; Foreign Aid ; Tidal Waves; Ethics; Earthquakes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%) United Nations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (94%); INDIA (92%); SOMALIA (92%); THAILAND (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%) Japan; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2005



78 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Unveils Deal to Protect 104,000 Acres in Adirondacks

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
More than 100,000 acres of forested woodlands in the remote northeastern Adirondacks will be protected from development and opened to the public for the first time in a century under an agreement announced yesterday by Gov. George E. Pataki.
 The agreement is the third-largest land conservation deal in New York history. It is especially significant because most of the 104,000 acres -- magnificent forests, crystalline lakes and rugged mountain peaks -- form a single uninterrupted tract. The land is in the Sable Highlands region of the Adirondacks, a gateway for large mammals like moose and an important breeding site for warblers, orioles and other migratory birds. 
 In making the deal public, Governor Pataki said the state was strengthening protection of the six-million-acre Adirondack Park, ''while continuing to sustain a critical aspect of the north country economy.'' 
 Like earlier conservation efforts, this deal ensures that the Adirondack lands remain working forest in that it includes provisions to preserve jobs in the timber industry, protect the tax bases of local communities and permit the continuing use of hunting camps. 
 But like other conservation efforts, this one is also getting its share of criticism from local officials who say Governor Pataki is putting the interests of hikers and environmentalists before the needs of people who live and work in the Adirondacks. ''All this does is serve a political purpose, which is to support the legacy that Pataki wants to build for himself,'' said Howard Aubin, a councilman who owns a sawmill in Au Sable Forks, an old mill town just south of the land involved in the deal. 
 Mr. Pataki has made preserving open space in New York one of the priorities of his tenure, committing the state to protect more than one million acres of land within a decade. 
 Environmentalists have given the governor high marks for land conservation. But Mr. Aubin, 50, who has lived in the Adirondacks all his life, said that each land agreement had caused hardship for year-round residents of the park, which is a combination of public and private land created more than a century ago.
 ''It's tough enough to make a living up here in the winter time,'' he said, ''but when you start chipping away at what can be done here, it's even tougher.''
 The land transaction involved all the Adirondack land owned by Domtar Industries, a Canadian paper manufacturer whose forestry management practices have met the exacting standards of the Forest Stewardship Council, an international nonprofit organization.
 Under the complex agreement brokered by the Nature Conservancy, Domtar will sell 84,448 acres to the Lyme Timber Company, which has its headquarters in Hanover, N.H., and which will continue to cut and process trees under the same forestry practices as Domtar. 
 Existing snowmobile trails will be maintained, but new ones cannot be opened. More than 47,000 acres that were off limits will be available for hiking, camping, fishing and cross-country skiing. 
 At the same time, Domtar will sell the development rights to the land to the state, which effectively means nothing will ever be built there. Lyme will pay lower local property taxes because of the conservation easements, and the state will make up the difference so the local communities in Franklin and Clinton Counties do not lose tax revenue.
 The Nature Conservancy will purchase the remaining 20,000 acres -- rugged land that has been only lightly cut and which includes the 3,800-foot-high Lyon Mountain. The conservancy will hold the parcel of land until the state can acquire it as part of the Adirondack forest preserve. 
 ''Having a 104,000-acre tract of intact, contiguous forestland that was privately owned, unprotected and without any public access become available in 2004 is kind of an incredible thing,'' said Henry G. Tepper, state director of the Nature Conservancy. ''It offers an immense conservation opportunity.''


GRAPHIC: Map of Adirondack Park shows the land affected by new land conservation deal: A state pact preserves a large tract in the Sable Highlands region. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (89%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (89%); SAW MILLS (87%); WILDLIFE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (78%); MAMMALS (78%); STATE PARKS (78%); HIKING (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); BIRDS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); PAPER MILLS (64%); PAPER MFG (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Parks and Other Recreation Areas

ORGANIZATION: somtar Industries; Nature Conservancy

PERSON: George E (Gov) Pataki; Anthony Depalma

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (97%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; Adirondack Mountains; Adirondack State Park

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005



79 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Amid a global call for selflessness, new campaigns focus on self-improvement.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
EACH January, Americans are inundated with advertising blitzes intended to spur them into paroxysms of self-improvement, centered on making and keeping resolutions for the new year. Hundreds of millions of dollars are spent encouraging people to eat better, exercise, undergo makeovers and spruce up their wardrobes, not to mention give up smoking and other bad habits that can be erased through buying something.
 But the 2005 version of the annual festival of self-help commercialism is unexpectedly confronting a potential distraction: news of the devastation caused by the tsunami in South Asia and the subsequent relief efforts. At the same time Americans are being asked to be self-absorbed, they are also being asked to think of others. That could jeopardize the effectiveness of scores of elaborate, expensive campaigns for foods, beverages, cosmetics, exercise and weight-loss regimens, vitamins, nutritional supplements and other products. 
 ''You'll have a large section of the population 'just about me,' but you'll also have another group who will be concerned about the tsunami victims,'' said Carol Cone, chief executive of Cone Inc. in Boston, an agency owned by the Omnicom Group that specializes in cause-related marketing campaigns.
 As a result, ''the ad messages are not going to be as effective,'' she said, particularly when it comes to consumers in the so-called Generation Y market segment. Born in the late 1970's through the mid-1990's, they are ''the most socially conscious in our segmentation research,'' she said.
 Many marketers are acknowledging the effect of world events.
 ''All of us have been hit hard emotionally'' by the tsunami, said Terry Olson, general manager and vice president for marketing for the Slim-Fast brand of diet products sold by Unilever, ''and I absolutely believe it's having an impact'' on consumer sentiment.
 ''But I don't know, to be honest with you, whether it will be positive or negative,'' he added. ''It could inspire people to take better care of themselves and become more committed to improving their lives and health, or not. It remains to be seen.''
 The Slim-Fast division of Unilever, which is based in West Palm Beach, Fla., is seeking to recover from a sales slump related to the popularity of low-carbohydrate diet plans. The division is making ''a big shift'' in the direction of its marketing, Mr. Olson said, describing it as ''probably the biggest in the history of the brand.''
 The shift includes a new weight-loss plan, called the Slim-Fast Optima Diet; the reformulation of products to increase protein content and decrease carbohydrate levels, among other changes; and a new campaign, carrying the theme ''Be satisfied. Be successful,'' from a new agency, Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide in New York, part of the WPP Group. Ogilvy took over the Slim-Fast account, with spending estimated at $90 million, from Grey Worldwide in New York, part of the Grey Global Group, in late October.
 ''This is a really significant effort for us,'' Mr. Olson said, ''introducing a diet we think is on trend with what consumers want today.'' Elements of the campaign include television commercials, materials on the Slim-Fast Web site (slim-fast.com), cents-off coupons in newspaper inserts, and a booklet, ''Little Book of Weight Loss Success,'' with a print run of 10 million copies, Mr. Olson said.
 For the first time, Pepsi-Cola North America -- part of the Pepsi-Cola Company division of PepsiCo -- has brought out a campaign with a new year's focus for its Aquafina brand of bottled water. The campaign, with television, online, outdoor and retail elements, is intended to build on ads introduced in July by BBDO Worldwide in New York, part of Omnicom, which carry the theme ''Make your body happy. Drink more water.'' The ads, festooned with confetti, feature declarations like ''This year drink to your health'' and ''On New Year's Day don't open a bottle of aspirin. Open a bottle of water.''
 The campaign comes at a time that ''as you would imagine is not a peak time for bottled-water consumption,'' said Chris Kempczinski, marketing director for Aquafina at Pepsi-Cola North America in Purchase, N.Y.
 ''But this is the time of year people are redoubling their efforts to get healthy,'' he added, ''and bottled water can be part of that.''
 Being concerned about the tsunami and about oneself should not be considered mutually exclusive, Mr. Kempczinski said, adding: ''The message people are taking away from what we're doing is, we hope, not to be selfish but to be responsible. And be responsible by taking care of yourself, by taking care of others.''
 After studying consumer market segments for bottled water, Mr. Kempczinski said, ''One group we go after is 'responsible nurturers,' typically mothers with families, who say that 'part of taking care of my family means taking care of myself.''' 
 Another potential problem for the resolution-themed ad blitz is the difficulty in attracting consumer attention when the marketplace is so intensely competitive. It could be the Madison Avenue equivalent of the truism attributed to Yogi Berra that no one goes there any more because it is too crowded.
 ''Like any marketing effort, the onus is on the marketer to come up with a campaign that is distinctive,'' Mr. Kempczinski said. ''Based on our reception so far, we feel we have broken through the clutter.''
 Mr. Olson of Slim-Fast also acknowledged the challenge.
 ''This is a critical time of year for the diet and weight-loss industry to capture new people,'' he said. ''There may be a lot of messages out there, but we absolutely feel this message is one that is very compelling and is being heard.''
 Among other marketers that are part of the lengthy self-improvement parade are Atkins Nutritionals, with a campaign carrying the theme ''Wake up to Atkins''; Jenny Craig, with a campaign that will feature the actress Kirstie Alley, the subject of ''Fat Actress,'' a new reality series on the Showtime cable network; General Mills, with a 10-week weight-management effort that involves 80 of its brands and carries the theme ''Brand new you''; and GlaxoSmithKline, for the Nicorette line of stop-smoking aids.
 Still other marketers include Weight Watchers International and Kraft Foods, majority-owned by the Altria Group, which has a major campaign bearing the endorsement of the South Beach Diet plan to promote brands like Boca, Kraft, Oscar Mayer, Planters and Polly-O. Procter & Gamble is using ads for its Olay Total Effects 7x skin care brand that feature the cheeky headline, ''Well, there goes your resolution to stop lying about your age.''
 Then of course there are those consumers who resolutely seek not to make new year's resolutions to better themselves. For them, there is an ad for Ketel One vodka, imported by Nolet Spirits U.S.A. The ad, by the Los Angeles office of M&C Saatchi, is almost entirely blank, save for this six-word headline at the top of the page: ''Dear Ketel One drinker. Hello again.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Pepsi-Cola North America has introduced a campaign for Aquafina bottled water that places a healthy twist on New Year's Eve drinking habits. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TSUNAMIS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); DIETING (89%); NUTRITION (88%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (75%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (73%); SMOKING (72%); GENERATION Y (71%); FESTIVALS (71%); COSMETICS (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%) Advertising; Tidal Waves; Weather

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); CONE INC (68%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (53%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (84%); UNIA (AMS) (53%); UNA (BIT) (53%); UNA (AMS) (53%); UN (NYSE) (53%); ULVR (LSE) (53%); UL (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (53%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (57%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005



80 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

United's Creditors Oppose Deal on Pilots' Pensions
United Airlines' creditors have joined the federal government in opposing a deal in which United would close its pilots' pension plan and give the pilots equity in the airline and other sweeteners in exchange.
 The showdown will come in a federal bankruptcy court in Chicago Thursday, as the pilots are set to finish voting on the deal, which United reached with the union leadership last month. [Page C5.]

Former Federated Chief Is Indicted
James M. Zimmerman, left, the retired chairman and chief executive of Federated Department Stores, was indicted for perjury over statements he made last year to investigators from the New York State attorney general's office. The company owns Macy's and Bloomingdale's. Investigators were looking into anticompetitive behavior by the company and other businesses. [C2.]

Japanese Automakers Make Gains
American sales by Toyota, Honda and Nissan continued to surge in December, as the companies made further inroads against the Big Three domestic manufacturers. [C2.]

Fed Minutes Show Inflation Worries
Federal Reserve officials became markedly more worried about inflation last month, according to minutes from their policy meeting in December. [C2.]

Rate Concerns Hurt Stock Market
New concerns about inflation drove stocks sharply lower. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 98.65 points, to 10,630.78. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 14.03 points, to 1,188.05, and the Nasdaq composite index tumbled 44.29 points, to 2,107.86. [C7.]

Deadline for Microsoft Claims
With only a few days remaining before a deadline, only a small percentage of California residents eligible to receive part of a $1.1 billion antitrust settlement with Microsoft have claimed their share. [C4.]

An Important Choice for Viacom
Viacom has a lot riding on the executive who comes in to run its stagnant Paramount film studio, which could contribute more profit under a new leader. Market Place. [C7.]

TV Azteca Chairman Is Charged
Securities regulators charged one of the richest men in Mexico, Ricardo B. Salinas Pliego, with fraud. The Securities and Exchange Commission also wants Mr. Salinas Pliego, the chairman of TV Azteca, the Spanish-language broadcaster, to give up more than $110 million he made from trading in the company's stock and debt. [C3.]

Publisher of Essence Is Sold
Time Inc. agreed to buy the 51 percent of Essence Communications Partners, the publisher of the magazines Essence and Suede, that it did not already own. [C4.]

Apex Responds to China Charges
Apex Digital, the American electronic goods company that has been accused by one of China's biggest television makers of bringing it huge financial losses, is fighting back against the charges. [C4.]

Self-Improvement vs. Selflessness
The new year's resolution-related commercial pitches are colliding with news of the tsunami in Asia. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C4.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,630.78 down 98.65Nasdaq composite -- 2,107.86 down 44.2910-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.29% up 0.08The euro -- $1.3273 down 0.0210The dollar -- 104.50 yen up 1.82Graph tracks share prices of TV Azteca A.D.R.'s for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); ELECTRONICS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); INFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); SECURITIES LAW (71%); RETAILERS (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (68%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (66%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (62%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TIME INC (80%); MACY'S INC (72%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (59%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); VIACOM INC (53%); TV AZTECA SA DE CV (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (56%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (72%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); VIA (NASDAQ) (53%); AZTECA (BMV) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (80%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (72%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (72%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (59%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); SALINAS, CA, USA (68%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005



81 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; PRO FOOTBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Running for Yards, Not for Mayor

BYLINE: By LEE JENKINS

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
For more than two months, San Diego has not known who its mayor will be, and for almost four years, LaDainian Tomlinson has been running.
 He has already proved that he can turn around the fortunes of a downtrodden civic institution. He has demonstrated a willingness to confront the most sensitive issues of the day. And this campaign season, he has successfully distracted his constituents from the area's political and economic problems. 
 While the courts are still trying to determine which ballots should be counted from November's mayoral election, Tomlinson is rushing the Chargers to their first playoff game in a decade. The city's political struggle and the success of its football team -- the two most popular topics of conversation around town -- seemingly have little to do with one another, except that Tomlinson is somehow in the middle of both.
 During games at Qualcomm Stadium, he looks in the stands and sees signs that read, ''L.T. for Mayor.'' During days off around town, people approach him and say: ''You know what, you should run for mayor. You'd probably win.''
 ''It sounds crazy, but it does happen,'' Tomlinson said yesterday at the Chargers' practice facility, where the team prepared to play the Jets in the first round of the playoffs on Saturday night. ''I think it's because win or lose, I try to play with pride and represent the city the right way. I'll show them when I'm happy, I'll show them when I'm upset. I want to give the people here something to be proud of.''
 Tomlinson made a commitment last summer to San Diego's most helpless cause -- its football team. The Chargers were coming off a 4-12 season, and Tomlinson's agent, Tom Condon, had helped steer another client, Eli Manning, away from San Diego. When Tomlinson was expected to bolt next, he made one of his signature spin moves, signing an eight-year contract to spend the prime of his career in what appeared to be gridiron oblivion.
 The National Football League had reason to fear that Tomlinson, one of its most captivating and charismatic performers, would never be more than the best player on the worst team. He would make the playoffs only in fantasy leagues. The former Giants linebacker Lawrence Taylor would forever remain the real L.T.
 But Tomlinson has always tried to run as an underdog. Lightly regarded coming out of high school in Waco, Tex., he signed with Texas Christian when the program was not even fifth best in his home state. Soon enough, he had helped build a midmajor powerhouse. When he arrived in San Diego in the spring of 2001 -- the Chargers traded the draft rights to Michael Vick to Atlanta for Tomlinson and other picks -- he saw the same potential for growth.
 ''Everyone here was so down, and I felt the pain they were going through,'' Tomlinson said. ''I have been thinking a lot this week about how, in my fourth year at T.C.U., we went 10-2. Here we are, my fourth year in San Diego, and we're 12-4. It feels a lot alike.''
 When the Chargers were losing in 2001 and 2003, Tomlinson was among the only players to express his frustrations publicly. When they missed a chance at the playoffs in 2002, he scolded himself for failing to do more. And when the Chargers finally started winning this season, he began lingering on the field at Qualcomm Stadium, taking his postgame celebration to the stands. 
 The Chargers have become the N.F.L.'s comeback story of the year, but their tale did not start with the new training-camp regimen implemented by Coach Marty Schottenheimer, or the metamorphosis of quarterback Drew Brees from bench warmer to Pro Bowl player, or the transition of Antonio Gates from college basketball player to record-setting tight end.
 Rather, it began when Tomlinson put pen to paper, signing the long-term pact that enabled this franchise to recoup some of the legitimacy it had lost. San Diego could finally point to a marquee player who endorsed the organization and was willing to gamble his career on where it was headed.
 ''Personally, I think it was very significant,'' Schottenheimer said. ''You've got as good a player as there is and the opportunity to get him signed and he wanted to be here. That was a major step.''
 Of course, Tomlinson does not simply take steps. He is more likely to cut and juke and bounce. He played most of this season with a sore groin, but he led the N.F.L. in rushing touchdowns, became a better receiver out of the backfield and still made defenders dizzy trying to keep track of him. Because Tomlinson commands so much attention from opposing defenses -- the Jets included -- he opens the field for Brees and Gates.
 ''I tell people it's like blocking for Barry Sanders,'' San Diego guard Mike Goff said. ''You give him a crack -- just a crack -- and he'll see it. You think the other team has got him for a 1-yard loss, you turn around, and he's gone.''
 Teammates have rarely seen Tomlinson as elusive as he has been this week, charging from the weight room to the meeting room to the practice field, as if a linebacker were in pursuit. He is preparing for the first playoff game of his career, and the biggest football game of his life, in trademark fashion.
 ''I want to see what the playoffs are all about,'' Tomlinson said. ''So far, it's been everything I ever dreamed of. I know what type of effort and passion I will play with Saturday night. I can only imagine the passion everyone else will bring.''
 Tomlinson is anticipating the inevitable comparisons to Jets tailback Curtis Martin, the leading rusher in the N.F.L. (''I have so much respect for him'') and is bracing for the return of Jets defensive end John Abraham (''They're a different team without him'').
 The Chargers would hardly be a team without Tomlinson. He is to San Diego what the former Padres outfielder Tony Gwynn used to be, an accessible superstar who had chances to leave a losing franchise but chose to stick it out and take his hits.
 Now that he has churned his way to the playoffs, Tomlinson has one eye trained on the Super Bowl and another on his modest political aspiration. ''There's one thing I really do want to see,'' Tomlinson said. ''It would be nice if everybody finally learned how to fill out a ballot the right way.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: San Diego's LaDainian Tomlinson was seventh in the N.F.L. this season with 1,335 rushing yards. He led the league with 17 rushing touchdowns as the Chargers went 12-4. (Photo by Lenny Ignelzi/Associated Press)(pg. D1)
 Quarterback Drew Brees had the third-best passer rating in the N.F.L. this season. The Chargers are in the playoffs after going 4-12 in 2003. (Photo by Doug Benc/Getty Images)(pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (74%); ATHLETES (73%) Football; Playoff Games

COMPANY: QUALCOMM INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); NEW YORK JETS (82%) San Diego Chargers; New York Jets

TICKER: QCOM (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: Lee Jenkins; Ladainian Tomlinson

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005



82 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Fed Notes Disclose Worries That Inflation May Pick Up

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
Federal Reserve officials became markedly more worried about inflation last month, with some pushing to raise interest rates faster than originally planned, according to minutes from their policy meeting in December.
 The minutes, released on Tuesday afternoon, caused a quick sell-off in the stock market as investors worried that interest rates could rise faster and growth become slower than they had expected.
 Among other things, the minutes suggested a growing unease among policy makers about the weakness of the dollar, high oil prices, slowing growth in productivity and high budget deficits.
 In a sign of a growing split among members of the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets interest rates, some officials pushed unsuccessfully for the central bank to drop its oft-repeated vow to raise interest rates at a ''measured'' pace. 
 ''There is a notably hawkish shift in these minutes,'' said Richard Berner, a senior economist at Morgan Stanley. ''There is nothing new about the phenomena they are citing, but the fact that they are starting to talk about it is news.''
 Under a strategy mapped out by Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, the central bank has been nudging up short-term interest rates, pushing them to 2.25 percent on Dec. 14 from 1 percent in June. 
 Throughout that process, the central bank has said it will raise rates at a ''measured'' pace. Most analysts are predicting that the federal funds rate, governing overnight loans between banks, will climb to 3.5 percent or slightly higher by the end of 2005.
 But analysts said the new minutes, which are carefully edited summaries of the closed policy discussions, suggested a growing restiveness among some members.
 Fed officials were generally confident about the prospects for reasonably strong economic growth, with no one suggesting the need to spur production with lower rates. But several members pointed to various signals that indicate higher inflation. 
 ''A number of participants voiced concerns about domestic and global financial imbalances,'' the minutes recounted, referring to both the soaring trade deficit and the federal government's record budget deficit. In a sign of potential trouble for President Bush, who has vowed to cut the budget deficit in half by 2009, the minutes reported that some Fed officials viewed the chances of significant reduction as ''remote.''
 Fed officials were also pessimistic about a rapid turnaround in the United States' huge trade and financial deficit with the rest of the world. The trade deficit is expected to exceed $600 billion in 2004, a record in dollar terms and as a share of the total economy. 
 At nearly 6 percent of the nation's gross domestic product, the trade deficit has already prompted a sharp decline in the value of the dollar against the euro and has raised growing fears about the possibility of a more abrupt crash.
 According to the minutes, some Fed officials worried that the prolonged policy of cheap money had ignited ''excessive risking in financial markets'' as well as ''speculative demands'' in the housing market.
 ''A number of participants'' were also described as citing concerns about the impact of high oil prices. Mr. Greenspan and other top officials have generally viewed rises in oil prices as one-time events, but the minutes said some policymakers worried that higher oil prices could become ''embedded'' in the underlying inflation trend.
 Among the more disquieting concerns raised by some Fed officials were those about inflation expectations, which can lead to self-perpetuating upward spirals in prices if people begin to make decisions on the assumption that prices will rise more rapidly.
 On that note, several Fed officials pointed out that the yields on inflation-protected Treasury securities had climbed in comparison with normal Treasury bonds, which the minutes said ''might be a warning sign that expectations were not as well anchored as they had been over the summer.''
 Analysts were divided about whether the Fed might actually step up the pace of rate increases in months ahead. But the minutes left little doubt that policy makers have abandoned any thought of pausing in their march to higher rates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (85%); MONETARY POLICY (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); EURO (73%); BONDS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005



83 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Land of Penny Pinchers

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF. 
E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

 BODY:
So is the U.S. ''stingy'' about helping poor countries?
 That accusation by a U.N. official, in veiled form, provoked indignation here. After all, we're the most generous people on earth aren't we?
 No, alas, we're not. And the tsunamis illustrate the problem: When grieving victims intrude onto our TV screens, we dig into our pockets and provide the massive, heartwarming response that we're now displaying in Asia; the rest of the time, we're tightwads who turn away as people die in far greater numbers. 
 The 150,000 or so tsunami fatalities are well within the margin of error for estimates of the number of deaths every year from malaria. Probably two million people die annually of malaria, most of them children and most in Africa, or maybe it's three million -- we don't even know.
 But the bottom line is that this month and every month, more people will die of malaria (165,000 or more) and AIDS (240,000) than died in the tsunamis, and almost as many will die because of diarrhea ( 140,000).
 And that's where we're stingy.
 Americans give 15 cents per day per person in official development assistance to poor countries. The average American spends four times that on soft drinks daily.
 In 2003, the latest year for which figures are available, we increased such assistance by one-fifth, for President Bush has actually been much better about helping poor countries than President Clinton was. But as a share of our economy, our contribution still left us ranked dead last among 22 top donor countries.
 We gave 15 cents for every $100 of national income to poor countries. Denmark gave 84 cents, the Netherlands gave 80 cents, Belgium gave 60 cents, France gave 41 cents, and Greece gave 21 cents (that was the lowest share, beside our own). 
 It is sometimes said that Americans make up for low official aid with private charitable gifts. Nope. By O.E.C.D. calculations, private donations add 6 cents a day to the official U.S. figure -- which means we still give only 21 cents a day per person. 
 One reason for American stinginess, I think, is a sense that foreign aid is money down a rathole. True, plenty has been wasted. But there's also growing evidence of what works and is cost-effective -- such as health programs and girls' schooling. 
 One of the most unforgettable people I've met is Nhem Yen, a Cambodian grandmother whose daughter had just died of malaria, leaving two small children. So Nhem Yen was looking after her four children and two grandchildren, and she could afford only one mosquito net to protect them from malarial mosquitoes. Each night, she had to choose which of the six children would sleep under the net.
 Do we really think that paying $5 for a mosquito net to keep Nhem Yen's children alive would be money down a rathole?
 When I contracted the most lethal form of malaria, in Congo, I was easily cured because I could afford the best medicines. But to save money, African children are given medicines that cost only 5 cents a dose but aren't very effective; the medicine that would actually save their lives is unaffordable, at $1 a dose. Do we really think $1 a dose for medicine to save a child is money down a rathole?
 Jeffrey Sachs, the Columbia University economist, estimates that spending $2 billion to $3 billion on malaria might save more than one million lives a year. ''This is probably the best bargain on the planet,'' he said.
 The outpouring of U.S. aid, private and public, for tsunami victims is wonderful. But, frankly, the affected nations will get all the money they can absorb for the moment, and Thailand, Indonesia and Sri Lanka are far from the worst off in the world.
 ''The really big money can be better and more usefully absorbed by developing good health and education programs in the poorest countries,'' noted Nancy Birdsall, president of the Center for Global Development. ''But that's not as visible or heroic.'' 
 With America's image tarnished around the world, one of the most effective steps Mr. Bush could take to revive it would be to lead a global effort to confront an ongoing challenge like malaria. That would also give Mr. Bush more credibility by suggesting that the ''culture of life'' he talks about embraces not just fetuses, but also African children crying from hunger.
 The best response to accusations of stinginess is not to be defensive, but to be generous. And the measure of generosity is not what you offer when the spotlight is upon you, but what you do when the spotlight moves on. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MALARIA (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); TSUNAMIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); CHILDREN (88%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (75%); CHARITABLE GIVING (74%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); CHARITIES (71%); SOFT DRINKS (50%) Foreign Aid; Earthquakes; Tidal Waves ; Medicine and Health; Malaria; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; United States International Relations; Diarrhea

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (54%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Nicholas D Kristof

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); BELGIUM (68%); NETHERLANDS (53%); FRANCE (53%) Indian Ocean

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005



84 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM ASIA; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Korea's Tricky Task: Digging Up Past Treachery

BYLINE: By Norimitsu Onishi

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
This country may be selling plasma television sets to America and it may have the highest percentage of broadband Internet users in the world. But these days, South Korea's political and intellectual class is also looking back, not only at the military era that ended in the late 1980's but also at the Japanese colonial period that ended six decades ago.
 A bill to delve into the issue of Korean collaborators during Japan's colonial rule recently moved through the National Assembly. Members of another committee to investigate forced labor under the Japanese have just moved into their new headquarters in downtown Seoul. Yet another committee, this one focusing on abuses by the National Intelligence Service under military rule, has already begun meeting. Others are looking at isolated incidents. 
 The talk of the past, mingled with comparisons with the Truth and Reconciliation Commission in South Africa, may sound discordant. But it is in keeping with the historic shift in power that has occurred here, one that saw this country's traditional power holders yield to new leaders with a very different take on history, North Korea and the United States. With the country at a turning point, the struggle over the past is a struggle over the future.
 Supporters of the truth committees say that precisely because of this shift, South Korea can now come to grips with its past. Critics say the efforts amount to score-settling or, in a society where offspring are judged guilty by association, to a naked attempt to damage certain politicians.
 Whatever the reason, South Korea is going ahead with an exercise that has taken place in several corners of the world, though not in East Asia -- where a reluctance to take a hard look at a difficult past keeps the history intensely alive.
 Each country in this region emphasizes the injustices and suffering it has endured. But South Korea will also look at how its own countrymen collaborated with the colonial rulers to forcibly send laborers to the far reaches of the Japanese empire and young women to serve as sex slaves for Japanese soldiers. And it will examine the postwar era of military rule, assessing responsibility for political assassinations and the periodic crackdowns, like the one on pro-democracy demonstrators in the Kwangju massacre of 1980. 
 It is, of course, too early to tell whether this exercise will lead to the goal of, if not national healing, at least national consensus. Supporters and critics alike, though, do start off agreeing that South Korea, until recently, had been governed by the same ruling class that stretched back to the colonial era.
 After the end of Japan's 35-year occupation in 1945, high-ranking Korean military officials and bureaucrats serving in the Japanese Imperial Army and administration were purged or imprisoned. But by 1949 they had been freed and rehabilitated by South Korea's first president, Syngman Rhee.
 ''He couldn't run the country otherwise,'' said Youn Jung Suk, a professor at the Sejong Institute specializing in Japan-Korea relations.
 These people went on to run the country, including under President Park Chung Hee, a Japanese-trained military officer whose 18-year reign was marked by economic growth but also by human rights abuses. Even after South Korea became a democracy in the late 1980s, their influence remained strong. Members of this class -- who tend to be fiercely anti-North Korean and pro-American -- survive today in the conservative Grand National Party, whose head is Park Geun Hye, the daughter of the late president.
 Things changed in early 2003 with the surprising victory of the current president, Roh Moo Hyun, a political outsider and self-taught human rights lawyer. Then the change became complete earlier this year when the Grand National Party lost control of the National Assembly to the Uri Party, which supports Mr. Roh.
 ''The new people in power come from the periphery of Korean society,'' said Kim Mun Cho, a sociologist at Korea University. They tend to be more nationalistic as well, emphasizing the need to build ties with the North and casting a skeptical eye on the United States.
 A few months after this historic shift in power, Mr. Roh used the 59th anniversary of the end of Japanese rule, on Aug. 15, to announce a campaign to look into the past.
 ''We are still unable to rid ourselves of the historic aberration that the families of those who fought for the independence of the nation were destined to face impoverishment for three generations, while the families of those who sided with Imperial Japan have enjoyed success for three generations,'' he said.
 The committee on forced labor, with headquarters already here, is expected to open regional offices soon, in an investigation likely to last two years.
 The committee on the National Intelligence Service -- sponsored by the agency, but made up of 10 independent members in addition to 5 high-ranking agency officials -- will look into abuses during the military era by combing through newly released government archives and by interviewing people.
 ''We must right the wrongs of the past to make sure history is not repeated,'' said Moon Byung Ho, a lawmaker for the governing Uri Party. ''It is the responsibility of a democracy to look into the past.''
 But members of the Grand National Party say the goal is simply to single out some of its members, especially the leader, the daughter of President Park. The new bill on Japanese collaborators will allow investigators to look at Korean officers in the Japanese Imperial Army with the rank of second lieutenant and above. The late president was -- not coincidentally, they say -- a second lieutenant.
 ''It's a political game,'' said Gong Sung Jin, a lawmaker for the Grand National Party. ''They're afraid that Park Geun Hye, who is very popular, will become president in the next term.''
 Indeed, the focus on the past has already unearthed unpleasant truths -- for the very politicians who had been clamoring for it. The chairman of the Uri Party, Shin Ki Nam, was forced to resign from his post after it was disclosed that his father had not been a teacher but a military policeman in the Japanese Imperial Army.
 The resignation, if anything, made clear that in a society where the sins of the father may be the son's -- or the daughter's, in the Park family's case -- the present battle over this country's past will forge its future.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A display of life-size models of Koreans who resisted Japanese imperialism. But maybe it wasn't that simple.
 A museum exhibit of pro-Japanese posters from the imperial era, 1910 to 1945. (Photographs by Seokyong Lee for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (89%); ASSASSINATION (85%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (73%); BROADBAND (73%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); SLAVERY (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (54%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (54%) History; Politics and Government; Freedom and Human Rights; Assassinations and Attempted Assassinations

PERSON: Norimitsu Onishi

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); KWANGJU, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%) South Korea; Japan

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005



85 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: State May Pay Larger Share Of Medicaid

BYLINE: By AL BAKER and RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki's top budget advisers are considering a plan that would require the state to pick up a larger share of the skyrocketing Medicaid costs now being paid by localities, according to administration officials.
 Medicaid, a $42 billion-a-year health insurance program for the state's three million low-income and poor residents, is the fastest growing part of the state's $100 billion annual budget, state officials say. Its costs are shared by state and local governments in New York, as well as by the federal government. 
 But in recent years, local government officials have complained that the program's soaring costs have placed a strain on county budgets and services across the state and have been a prime cause of local property tax increases. The officials are frustrated that Albany makes decisions about how much to spend on the program but passes substantial costs on to localities. 
 The Pataki administration's plan -- now being circulated in the State Capitol as the governor prepares his budget for the next fiscal year -- would build on a plan that Senate Republicans pushed successfully last year to rein in certain state-mandated Medicaid costs for localities.
 Many of the Pataki plan's details remained unclear on Tuesday, but officials familiar with them said that a key provision would place a cap on local costs. It would do so by requiring the state to pick up any year-to-year increase in local Medicaid costs roughly above the rate of inflation. Now, local government officials must pick up the entire increase in local costs from one year to the next.
 The plan would be accompanied by proposed cuts in certain Medicaid payments to providers, which include hospitals and nursing homes. The specifics of those cuts are unclear. Also being considered is a potentially contentious idea to have localities provide the state with a share of the revenues they raise from sales tax. That provision is intended to help the state defray some of the new costs the state would assume, according to Republican officials close to the administration.
 Kevin C. Quinn, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki, said: ''Obviously Medicaid is a critical issue for county taxpayers. During the past several weeks, at the governor's initiative, we have been actively engaged in discussions with county executives from across the state about how we can achieve real relief for property taxpayers this year.'' 
 On Tuesday, a day before Mr. Pataki was set to give his annual address to all 212 state lawmakers, a bipartisan group of county executives and other officials from around New York came to Albany to urge lawmakers and the governor to agree to cap the local share of Medicaid spending at 2003 levels. Such a cap would cost the state $1.8 billion over three years, the local officials said.
 ''Medicaid is the main issue that we are united together on and is our main issue that we face in Albany this year,'' said Thomas R. Suozzi, a Democrat and the Nassau County executive, who has led a reform movement called Fix Albany. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (93%); BUDGETS (92%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); NURSING HOMES (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); TAX LAW (73%); INFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%) Medicine and Health; Law and Legislation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Medicaid

PERSON: George E (Gov) Pataki; Al Baker; Raymond Hernandez

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005



86 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; N.F.L. ROUNDUP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: After a Perfect Season, Utah's Smith Is Entering the Draft

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Utah quarterback Alex Smith already has his degree and a perfect season. He was also a finalist for the Heisman Trophy. There is not much more for him to accomplish, so he is leaving college with one year of eligibility remaining to enter the N.F.L. draft. 
 ''I just felt like this was the right opportunity for me to make the jump,'' Smith said yesterday.
 The 20-year-old Smith, who has yet to hire an agent, said he was not sure two years ago whether he wanted to keep playing football at all, let alone seek a future in the N.F.L. But he has had a remarkable 21-1 run since taking over the Utes' starting job early in the 2003 season. The team went 12-0 this season, and beat Pittsburgh, 35-7, in the Fiesta Bowl.
 Smith, who received his economics degree last spring, will not attend graduate classes this semester.

Bears' Shea Is Let Go
 Chicago yesterday fired its offensive coordinator, Terry Shea, after a season in which the team had one of the N.F.L.'s worst offenses.
 ''It was a tough decision,'' said Lovie Smith, who finished his first season as the Bears' coach with a 5-11 record.
 The Bears ranked last in six major statistical categories, including scoring and total yards, using four different quarterbacks. They had more lost fumbles (21) than offensive touchdowns (19). Shea was previously the quarterbacks coach of the high-scoring Kansas City Chiefs, whom he joined in 2001 after five years as head coach at Rutgers, where he had an 11-44 record.

Jaguars Fire Musgrave
 Bill Musgrave, Jacksonville's offensive coordinator, was fired yesterday after the team finished last in the American Football Conference and 29th in the league in scoring.
 Musgrave was criticized during the season for not getting the most out of an offense that had running back Fred Taylor, receiver Jimmy Smith and quarterback Byron Leftwich. 
 He started his coaching career working with Oakland quarterbacks in 1997. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); DISMISSALS (74%); RANKINGS (70%) Football; Draft and Recruitment (Sports)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (83%); CHICAGO BEARS (83%) University of Utah

PERSON: Alex Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (52%) UTAH, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%); MISSOURI, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005



87 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1841 words

HEADLINE: Pataki's Promises of Change Yielded to Custom and Delay

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
It was 10 years ago this week that Gov. George E. Pataki, a little-known Republican state lawmaker who had just defeated Mario M. Cuomo, used his first annual address to the Legislature to call for a revolution in state government.
 Starting with him, he said, New York's governors should be limited to two terms in office. He insisted that the budget should be passed on time. He called for a new spirit of cooperation and bipartisanship with the Legislature, praising the Democratic speaker of the Assembly, Sheldon Silver, as ''a good leader'' who ''has a proven record of putting principle ahead of politics.'' And he vowed to end the state's ''back-room budget making,'' telling the assembled lawmakers that ''the door to this governor's office is always open to each and every one of you.''
 A decade later, as Mr. Pataki prepares to deliver his 11th annual address to the Legislature on Wednesday, it is safe to say that the revolution has not exactly proceeded as planned. 
 The former proponent of term limits is now midway through his third term and is toying with the idea of seeking a fourth. The budget has not been adopted on time since he took office, and the last one was the latest yet. Tensions between the governor and the Legislature have continually erupted into political battles and even lawsuits.
 The same three men who controlled the fate of all legislation 10 years ago -- Mr. Pataki, Mr. Silver, and Joseph. L Bruno, the Senate majority leader -- still have the same strong grip over the state. As for the governor's open door, his whole wing on the second floor of the Capitol has long been blocked off by a glass door guarded by a state trooper. The wing is known as ''Fort Pataki.''
 Most tellingly, some of the biggest changes Mr. Pataki successfully ushered into law in 1995 after Mr. Cuomo's 12-year rule are coming undone, victims of legislative gridlock and the competing political realities of running the state. 
 The death penalty he passed in his first term was recently struck down by the state's highest court, and Democrats have shown little inclination to restore it. At first, Mr. Pataki succeeded in curtailing the growth of government by cutting spending and taxes sharply, but by now spending has passed the $100 billion mark and has grown faster than inflation during his leadership. Even some of the governor's tax cuts have been whittled down; the Legislature recently pushed through an income tax surcharge on families earning more than $150,000 a year. 
 When he became governor, it was with a promise of a fresh start. Mr. Pataki, Mr. Silver and Mr. Bruno all rose to their positions of leadership at roughly the same time and seemed committed to doing business in a new way. Now he and Mr. Silver barely try to conceal their contempt for each other. The governor's relationship with his fellow Republican, Mr. Bruno, whom he helped install while he was a senator, has also frayed over the years, as the Senate has often sided with the Democratic Assembly against the governor on issues ranging from the budget to the minimum wage.
 Governor Pataki said in an interview on Tuesday that he was proud of his administration's accomplishments in areas like reducing crime, cutting taxes and overhauling welfare.
 ''If 10 years ago people had told us that this is what you're going to be able to achieve, I would have said you're dreaming,'' he said as he nursed a cold and prepared for the address. ''But we have. We have made dramatic improvements to this state by reducing crime, protecting our environment and cutting taxes. That's on the substance side. On the process side, it's been enormously frustrating, because I understand people want to see an open, orderly process of government, and so do I. It's clear that we don't have that here in Albany.''
 In his address to the Legislature on Wednesday, officials said, Mr. Pataki plans to renew his calls for overhauling the way business is done in Albany, joining a growing chorus for reform. He is also planning to urge the Legislature to restore the death penalty. 
 On the sidelines, pressures are growing to deliver on reform, a theme now sounded by Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, a Democrat who has made a national reputation with his investigations of big business and is now preparing a run for governor in 2006. The Senate Republicans, who saw their majority whittled down in the November elections, are in turmoil over how to handle the reform issue, and both houses of the Legislature are promising to change their rules to be more democratic. 
 In many ways, Mr. Pataki has remained committed to the goals he promoted 10 years ago, not only in calling for a new death penalty bill but repeatedly vowing not to raise taxes and pledging to keep state spending in check. Still, when he tries to cut spending, he often finds himself blocked by both houses of the Legislature, since lawmakers want to prove that they can deliver the goods to their districts. 
 Some of the governor's early reform proposals were just dead on arrival in the Legislature. In his 1995 address, he proclaimed that ''the time for term limits is at hand,'' but he waited until the end of his first legislative session to introduce a bill that would have established term limits for statewide elected officials. It went nowhere. Mr. Pataki went on to win two more terms.
 Mr. Silver, who opposed the governor's term-limits plan a decade ago, said he had no regrets, even though it would have forced Mr. Pataki, his political nemesis, to leave office two years ago. 
 At first, the governor worked aggressively to try to force a budget through on time, calling on the Legislature to pass a spending plan in early March, ahead of the April 1 deadline. In that first address to lawmakers, Mr. Pataki threatened to shut down part of state government if the budget was not passed on time.
 ''I want to put everyone in this great legislative hall on notice right now,'' he said. ''If the April 1 deadline is not met, I will not initiate, nor will I approve, legislation to provide interim appropriations for any state function except those that directly affect the health and safety of New Yorkers.''
 As April 1 approached, it became apparent that there would be no budget, and the Pataki administration decided after lengthy internal discussion that the governor could not risk shutting down state government, two Republican state officials said. 
 The governor tried other sticks, threatening to veto all nonbudget bills until the budget passed, and even trying to follow through on his pledge to legislators in that first address: if the budget is late, ''you won't be paid and neither will I.'' 
 When he tried to withhold checks from himself, lawmakers and many staff members, however, a judge prevented him. 
 A few years later Mr. Pataki managed to fulfill half that pledge: he agreed to a raise for lawmakers, on the condition that their salary be held in escrow until the state budget was passed. It has not speeded the budget process, and many lawmakers grouse that the governor is still paid when the budget is late.
 And because delay is one of the legislators' main weapons in the budget battle, late budgets have persisted and emergency appropriations to keep government in operation are now the norm. Temporary spending bills kept the state running for more than a third of this fiscal year. 
 Of course, late budgets were not invented during the last decade. Mr. Pataki's predecessors have all had testy relationships with the Legislature that kept them from achieving their goals; Mr. Cuomo once even likened lawmakers to monkeys. Mr. Cuomo has long argued that the state government is so broken that the state needs a new constitution. He and Mr. Pataki both called for a constitutional convention in 1997, but voters turned down the idea after labor unions campaigned strongly against it. 
 Last year, the issue of overhauling the way Albany operates gained new support when a report found that New York's Legislature was the most dysfunctional in the nation and that lawmakers were relegated to rubber-stamping the decisions made by the three leaders behind closed doors. 
 When Mr. Pataki entered office, he had pledged to change this tradition. Drawing on his experiences as a member of the Republican minority in the Assembly and the Republican majority in the Senate, he declared that ''the practice of back-room budget making must end.'' He spoke of opening the process up with ''full and public debate in the light of day'' and talked about involving lawmakers from the majority and minority parties in the process, and not just the legislative leaders.
 ''Would that that had happened,'' mused Assemblyman Robin Schimminger, a moderate Democrat from western New York who was friendly with Mr. Pataki in the Assembly but has had little contact with him since he became governor. 
 While there were early attempts to open negotiating sessions to reporters, the meetings devolved into political grandstanding fests, and the work was soon returned to the back rooms. These days, Mr. Pataki meets with Mr. Silver and Mr. Bruno and they fight behind closed doors over the details of the state budget. 
 Typical bargaining sessions end with the three men emerging from their room, stepping past the trooper who guards the governor's wing, proclaiming in vague terms that their talks either were or were not productive, and then refusing to discuss specifics until the whole deal is sealed. 
 Like many of his predecessors, Mr. Pataki has seen many of his initiatives thwarted by the combination of partisan and institutional divisions that define Albany. 
 Thanks to gerrymandering, the Legislature has remained divided for three decades, with the Senate in the hands of the Republicans and the Assembly controlled by the Democrats. As a result, when Mr. Pataki and the Senate Republicans find common ground on certain ideological issues, they are often blocked by the Assembly Democrats. When Mr. Pataki wants to cut spending, he often finds himself blocked by both houses of legislators, who want more spending in their districts. 
 Since most actions require the approval of three independent bodies with shifting alliances, it is hard to get things done. Mr. Pataki and the Senate fault Mr. Silver and the Assembly Democrats for blocking their initiatives; Mr. Silver holds out to try to get the needs of his city-centric conference answered; the Legislature fights the governor to increase spending, and all sides distrust each other. 
 Senator David Paterson, the Democratic minority leader, said Governor Pataki informed him on Tuesday that he was planning to call -- as he did in his first address -- for opening the budget process up even to the out-of-power parties.
 ''I asked him was he remembering his days in the Assembly minority,'' Mr. Paterson said. ''He said he never forgot them.'' 

10 Years Later
 Articles in this series will periodically examine aspects of state government in the time since Gov. George E. Pataki took office.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. George E. Pataki is to deliver his 11th annual address to the Legislature today. (Photo by Jim McKnight/Associated Press)(pg. B1)
 Governor Pataki delivering his 1995 address. Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver was in the second row, second from left, next to Lt. Gov. Betsy McCaughey. Behind her was Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader. Mr. Bruno and Mr. Silver still negotiate the budget with Mr. Pataki, and it is still uniformly late. (Photo by David Jennings for The New York Times)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERM LIMITS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (89%); REDISTRICTING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); POLITICS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); TAX LAW (73%); LITIGATION (69%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (65%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%); SUPREME COURTS (50%) Surveys and Series; Governors (US); Legislature; Elections; Reapportionment ; Gerrymandering; Term Limits (Political Office); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation; Crime and Criminals; Welfare (US)

PERSON: George E (Gov) Pataki; Michael Cooper; Sheldon (Speaker) Silver; Joseph L (Sen) Bruno

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005



88 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1428 words

HEADLINE: Who's the Top Convention Dog?

BYLINE: By ROBERT SHAROFF

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
An $850 million expansion currently under way at the lakefront McCormick Place convention center here -- the second major expansion in less than a decade -- is evidence of a shift in strategy at what is the nation's largest convention site.
 It is also a sign that Chicago, which has been losing ground in recent years to Sun Belt resort cities like Las Vegas and Orlando, is determined to hold on to its share of the convention market.
 ''It's important that we stay at the top of our game,'' said Leticia Peralta Davis, chief executive of the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority, the public entity that controls the center. ''The convention industry is still a very important part of the local economy. We have to do everything we can to facilitate our status.'' 
 The new addition -- covering more than 700,000 square feet, including 470,000 square feet of exhibition space -- will allow the center to accommodate two or more major events simultaneously. It will also improve overall occupancy by decreasing the amount of idle time when shows are being assembled or dismantled. The current occupancy rate at McCormick's three principal exhibition halls is about 70 percent.
 Compared with the existing space, the addition has a much higher ratio of meeting space to exhibition space. There is twice as much exhibition space as meeting space in the expansion; the ratio is three to one in the existing site. The shift reflects the increasing role that meetings and educational seminars have come to play at many conventions. 
 This is particularly true in the medical field, a market that Chicago, the home of a number of health care organizations like the American Medical Association, is actively courting with the expansion.
 ''The medical shows have become increasingly important,'' said Christopher Bowers, chief executive of the Chicago Convention and Tourism Bureau, which promotes the convention center. ''These organizations have lots of certification and continuing-education sessions that require contiguous meeting space. The new expansion is being built with that in mind.''
 The addition will bring McCormick Place's total exhibition space to about 2.7 million square feet, ensuring that it will remain the largest convention center at one site for the foreseeable future. 
 The next largest centers are the Orange County Convention Center in Orlando, Fla., at 2.1 million square feet and the Las Vegas Convention Center, covering about 2 million square feet. Las Vegas also has two privately owned sites with more than a million square feet each. 
 Convention center development tends to go in cycles, with 10 years considered the normal life span for a site before the next expansion or renovation. 
 ''There's been a rash of development in the last few years because interest rates are so low and individual cities are trying to position themselves to compete,'' said Charles Johnson, president of Johnson Consulting in Chicago, which specializes in advising municipalities on the planning and construction of convention centers and other large civic projects. ''It's like the hotel and office market. When the financing window is there, a lot of people expand simultaneously.''
 According to a study by Tradeshow Week, the industry's largest trade publication, almost 6.8 million square feet of new exhibition space will be built in North America in the next few years. North America has about 80.5 million square feet at 434 different locations now.
 McCormick's new structure, called the west building, is being designed by A. Epstein & Sons International of Chicago in partnership with Thompson, Ventulett & Stainback of Atlanta. The team is the same one that designed McCormick's last expansion, completed in 1996, the 2.9-million-square-foot south building. That building, with 840,000 square feet of exhibition space, introduced a new sense of scale and luxury at the center. 
 ''The west hall will have the same scale, the same grand feeling when you walk down the grand concourse, the same large bays and high ceiling heights,'' said Mickey Kupperman, vice chairman of A. Epstein & Sons. ''They're elegant public buildings, contemporary, open and attractive.'' 
 ''A lot of effort was made to get input from users about their needs,'' he said, ''and that input went a long way toward shaping the facility.''
 The expansion is being financed through the sale of bonds backed by various local taxes on everything from hotel rooms to restaurant meals. The center itself will not be a major contributor. 
 ''No center that I know of pays off its debt service,'' said Heywood Sanders, a professor in the department of public administration at the University of Texas at San Antonio, who specializes in the economics of convention center development. ''And only a tiny fraction meet their operating costs. Most have to be subsidized annually. There's no black on the revenue side for most centers.''
 The center is very much intended to bolster Chicago's standing in the $80 billion convention industry. As recently as the early 90's, Chicago was host to 30 of the nation's largest annual conventions as well as numerous smaller shows and was generally regarded as the leading convention city in the country. 
 Since then, however, it has slipped a notch. In 2003, the last year with statistics available, Las Vegas was the undisputed leader, with 38 of the largest conventions, followed by Chicago, with 27, and Orlando, with 17. (These rankings are based on a list of the top 200 national conventions compiled annually by Tradeshow Week.) These three cities, the only ones that currently have convention centers with at least two million square feet of exhibition space under one roof, make up the top tier of the convention market. 
 Competition among these cities for important shows is stiff. ''McCormick used to be in a dominant position, but not anymore'' Mr. Sanders said. ''Today, they have to compete.''
 Mr. Johnson, the convention center consultant, concurred. ''Chicago has lost some big shows,'' he said. ''The prizes are the annually repeating shows that tend to stay in one jurisdiction. They can be stolen, almost like a sports franchise.'' 
 Whether the expansion will allow Chicago to reclaim market share or even maintain its current stake is an open question. The convention business, of course, is about much more than exhibition space. 
 ''It's a big puzzle, and the facility is just one piece of it,'' said Kathie Canning, deputy general manager of the Orange County Convention Center in Orlando, which completed its own 950,282-square-foot expansion in 2003. ''We compete on destination first. What it typically comes down to is, Is it a place attendees want to come to?'' 
 Other critical factors, she said, are air fares, the number of direct flights into and out of the city's airport, hotel rooms and rates, and the convention center's location in the city.
 Chicago measures up well in many categories. ''I don't see much difference between Chicago, Las Vegas and Orlando in terms of attractions,'' said Christopher Vranas, associate executive director of the American Association of Orthodontists in St. Louis. ''All three cities have what medical and health care professionals love: great restaurants, theater, museums and entertainment.'' 
 His organization's convention is one of 18 events that have already signed up to use the new west building, sight unseen, after it opens in 2008. ''McCormick did a very smart thing,'' Mr. Vranas said. ''Most convention centers are built to have huge exhibition halls. But the professional groups need a tremendous amount of space for meetings and continuing-education programs. That was the deciding factor for us.''
 Some problem areas for Chicago are high labor costs, McCormick's relatively isolated location along Lake Michigan and the city's frigid winters.
 ''If you compare overall costs, Chicago can be high,'' said Reggie Hall, a senior vice president of the Newspaper Association of America, which will hold its annual convention in the new building in 2010. ''We think that's getting better. We also think that any additional costs will be offset by increased attendance. The bottom line is geography. Chicago is within driving distance of a lot of newspapers.'' 
 As for the weather, ''it's always 72 degrees inside the buildings,'' Mr. Bowers said.
 ''I think in the past there's been too much put against the fact that the weather's always miserable in January and February. I don't think that's the case. The roads are clean; the airport hums along. We can handle winter weather.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of the McCormick Place convention center expansion, foreground, in Chicago. The project, scheduled for completion in 2008, will add 700,000 square feet, for a total of 2.7 million square feet. (Photo by Dan Harmon & Associates)Chart: ''Data Update''Value of residential construction contracts, seasonally adjusted annual rate through November.Graph tracks value of residential construction contracts (regionally in billions) from 2000-2004 for the following regions:WestMidwestNortheastSouthNATIONAL IN BILLIONSNOV. '03: $306.9SEPT.'04: $331.3OCT. '04: $328.7NOV. '04: $316.4(Source by McGraw-Hill Construction/Dodge)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (76%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (73%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (64%); HEALTH CARE (63%) Conventions and Conferences; Mccormick Place (Chicago)

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN PIER & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (70%)

PERSON: Robert Sharoff

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005



89 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; ASIA'S DEADLY WAVES: AFTERMATH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1527 words

HEADLINE: Pledges Grow, Hurdles Loom In Relief Effort

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
Fresh infusions of aid on Tuesday gave yet more push to the global relief effort for Asia as it confronted monsoon rains, logistical breakdowns and the urgent need for everything from earthmoving equipment to trucks in the struggle to reach the survivors in the most remote areas. 
 Jan Egeland, the United Nations' emergency coordinator, acknowledged the many obstacles but called the global response ''phenomenal.'' He spoke on a day when expectations rose that pledges could far exceed $2 billion before a meeting here on Thursday of donor nations that will discuss how to coordinate the aid. 
 With television broadcasts showing American servicemen delivering aid to victims of the last week's tsunami, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell candidly acknowledged the hope that the United States' military help and its $350 million contribution might improve America's image in the Islamic world. Indonesia, home of two-thirds of the estimated 150,000 people who have died, is the world's most populous Muslim country. 
 ''We'd be doing it regardless of religion,'' Mr. Powell said here on the second day of his tour through the region with Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida. ''But I think it does give the Muslim world and the rest of the world an opportunity to see American generosity, American values in action.'' 
 ''America is not an anti-Islam, anti-Muslim nation,'' Mr. Powell added in his remarks to reporters alongside the Indonesian foreign minister, Hassan Wirajuda. ''America is a diverse society where we respect all religions. And I hope that as a result of our efforts, as a result of our helicopter pilots being seen by the citizens of Indonesia helping them, that value system of ours will be reinforced.'' 
 For his part, Mr. Wirajuda, a Harvard Law School graduate, went out of his way to praise the performance of the American military in the aid effort. ''We particularly appreciate the crucial role that the United States armed forces play in providing helicopters for relief assistance for victims and survivors at the remote and isolated areas,'' he said.
 The American forces sent so far, which include a crew of nearly 6,000 on the aircraft carrier Abraham Lincoln, proved essential in launching rescue helicopters on Tuesday after a cargo plane reportedly struck a water buffalo at the airport in Banda Aceh, at the chaotic center of Indonesia's hardest-hit area on the island of Sumatra. 
 The accident closed the runway for much of the day and exposed the vulnerable logistics of what relief and military officials have called the largest aid operation ever. 
 ''We are making extraordinary progress in reaching the majority of people affected in the majority of the areas,'' said Mr. Egeland, the United Nations coordinator. ''We are also experiencing extraordinary obstacles in many, many areas.''
 Reuters, citing a government source, reported that Germany was expected to increase its aid contribution to $680 million, from $27 million, which would make the country the biggest single contributor to relief funds. Chancellor Gerhard Schroder promised to announce ''a significant sum'' on Wednesday, the news agency reported.
 Even as contributions mounted, the United Nations office overseeing relief from Geneva appealed for generators, water purification equipment, some 250 trucks and cargo planes able to land on short runways, which it said only the United States and Britain could provide, according to Reuters. 
 With each day, the relief efforts amounted to a race against time for perhaps tens of thousands among the estimated 400,000 people left injured or without shelter since the earthquake erupted on Dec. 26 and sent wave after wave crashing into Sumatra's western shore. 
 The World Health Organization warned that pneumonia, diarrhea, malaria and many infections, including gangrenous wounds left untended in the tropical heat, were taking an increasing toll in Aceh, Sumatra's most afflicted province. The region around the coastal town of Meulaboh, still inaccessible except by air, remained a particular concern.
 ''The casualty rates in Meulaboh defy imagination,'' Aitor Lacomba, the Indonesia director of the International Rescue Committee, an aid group, told Reuters. ''Tens of thousands need immediate assistance there.'' 
 Rescue workers were reportedly preparing to use small boats and motorbikes in the hunt for more survivors and to deliver assistance, as helicopters shuttled workers from the international aid group Doctors Without Borders into isolated areas. They reported casualty rates of 70 to 80 percent in some places. 
 ''The people who survive have done that under very difficult circumstances, often surviving on coconuts alone,'' an official of the group, Erwin Vantland, told BBC World TV. ''The picture becomes grimmer and grimmer the more we learn.''
 The full scale of the devastation came into sharper focus in other regions as well. Indian officials raised the number of those believed missing on the Andaman and Nicobar Islands to more than 6,000. They also came under increasing pressure from international aid groups to allow outside relief workers to tend to more than 21,000 people now sheltered in camps on the islands, which have been closed to protect endangered aboriginal tribes. 
 In Sri Lanka, health officials warned that relentless seasonal rains were slowing the delivery of aid and threatening to spread water-borne disease. 
 Mr. Powell said Myanmar, also known as Burma, the region's most politically isolated nation, did not appear to have suffered severely, according to satellite photographs of the closed country's coastline. Another government official said visitors from the Red Cross and other organizations had confirmed that impression.
 The Myanmar authorities and aid agencies had announced fewer than 100 deaths, but other authorities believed that the actual toll might be far higher.
 For the United States, the aid effort that is focused on Indonesia unfolds at a time when America's standing among Muslims is at an all-time low. 
 Since the 9/11 attacks, the State Department has begun a number of public diplomacy campaigns aimed at improving the image of America and emphasizing that it is not hostile to Islam. But with the war in Iraq filling television screens worldwide with images of American soldiers battling in a Muslim land, those messages have often been muted. 
 In Indonesia, which has also suffered terror attacks from extremists in recent years, Mr. Powell said America supported democracy and economic progress globally in part because such change ''dries up those pools of dissatisfaction which might give rise to terrorist activity.''
 Earlier in the day, Mr. Powell, accompanied by Governor Bush, President Bush's brother, toured the ruined Thai resort island of Phuket and offered United States technical assistance in helping Thailand to create a regional warning system to protect against future disasters.
 Standing in the sweltering heat near a wall covered with pictures of the missing, Mr. Powell suggested that the problem of supplying survivors in Thailand was well in hand and that the greatest need here might be for help with the gruesome task of identifying bodies.
 ''The difficult challenge that I see here this afternoon that I will go back and see what more we can do has to do with identification of remains,'' he said, after meeting with a United States military forensic team that usually handles the remains of American service members missing in action.
 Thailand's foreign minister, Surakiart Sathirathai, said his government had recorded 5,187 dead, slightly more than half of them foreigners, mostly tourists vacationing at beach resorts. Some 362 bodies have not been identified, including some so badly decomposed that it was impossible to tell whether they were Thai or European, Mr. Surakiart said. An additional 3,810 people are missing. 
 Still, Mr. Powell said the problems of Thailand were modest compared with those of Indonesia, particularly in Aceh Province, which he and Governor Bush are scheduled to visit Wednesday.
 In addition to Mr. Powell, the donors' meeting on Thursday is expected to be attended by Secretary General Kofi Annan, Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China and Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan, whose nation has committed $500 million dollars. Before the meeting, pressure was building among European nations to declare, at a minimum, a moratorium on debt payments from the stricken countries.
 At Bangkok International Airport, Mr. Powell and Mr. Bush got a glimpse of the mountains of donated supplies already arriving in Thailand as they toured storage hangars. Cartons of noodles and bundles of plastic water bottles were stacked on the tarmac next to a drearier sight: piles of empty wooden coffins.
 Outside in the sun were a heap of local donations, including clothing, blankets and quilts.
 Andrew Natsios, the administrator of United States Agency for International Development, shook his head at the chaotic scene.
 ''It all seems so familiar,'' he said. ''People are very generous, but there are distribution problems.'' Still, he added, ''this is better than what I've seen in a lot of places.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: An American medical officer carried an injured child yesterday after arriving by helicopter at the military airport in Banda Aceh, Indonesia. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Indonesians in Lamno rushed yesterday to a United States Navy helicopter that landed to deliver food and water to the isolated town. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. A10)Chart/Map: ''The Death Toll''Estimated deaths across the region as of 5 p.m. Tuesday.SOMALIA: 200KENYA: 1TANZANIA: 10MALDIVES: 80BANGLADESH: 2INDIA: 11,000SRI LANKA: 30,196MYANMAR: 90THAILAND: 5,187MALAYSIA: 68INDONESIA: 100,000Map of Southeast Asia highlighting above mentioned countries. (pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); TSUNAMIS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); RELIGION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (89%); HELICOPTERS (86%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (68%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (68%); NAVAL VESSELS (68%); AIRPORTS (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (54%) Earthquakes; Tidal Waves ; Earthquakes; Abraham Lincoln (USS); United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Emergency Medical Treatment; Earthquakes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); US NAVY (59%) United Nations

PERSON: Scott Shane; Colin L (Sec) Powell; Jan Egeland; Jeb (Gov) Bush; Hassan (Min) Wirajuda

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%) SUMATRA, INDONESIA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); INDONESIA (96%); ASIA (94%); THAILAND (93%); MYANMAR (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); MALDIVES (79%); KENYA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOMALIA (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Indonesia; Thailand; Myanmar; Burma; Sumatra (Indonesia); Aceh Province (Indonesia); Meulaboh (Indonesia); Sri Lanka; Phuket (Thailand); Germany; Indian Ocean

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005



90 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET -- Long Island; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Expansion by Southwest Airlines Awakens a Drowsing MacArthur

BYLINE: By ROSAMARIA MANCINI

DATELINE: RONKONKOMA, N.Y., Jan. 4 

 BODY:
Long Island MacArthur Airport is about twice the size of La Guardia, but for decades it was a very sleepy place. Lately, however, thanks in large part to expansion undertaken by Southwest Airlines, it has become a much more vital economic force in Suffolk County. 
 In August, Southwest Airlines opened a new $51 million concourse at the airport, which is owned by the town of Islip. The 114,254-square-foot concourse was paid for entirely by Southwest. It has four passenger gates, replacing three gates that the airline had been using, as well as five restaurants, a bookstore and a newsstand. 
 With passenger use up considerably, the carrier plans to go ahead with the second phase of its expansion. The next project will add four more boarding gates in a 60,000-square-foot building, which will be connected to the terminal that opened last summer, the Peter J. McGowan concourse, named for Islip's town supervisor.
 Southwest, which is based in Dallas, puts the cost of the next building at approximately $20 million. Construction is scheduled to begin early this year and is expected to be completed in April 2006. 
 ''The plan to build four more gates represents our faith in the market and our belief that we will outgrow our current space,'' said Ron Ricks, a senior vice president at Southwest Airlines. He added that the carrier's number of daily flights, now 26, could more than double within a few years. 
 The airline's business has risen more than 10 percent since the new concourse opened last summer. Statistics compiled by the airport showed that 170,416 passengers passed through MacArthur Airport in October; 140,891 of them took Southwest flights. In October 2003, by comparison, 158,558 passengers passed through the airport and 124,968 were on Southwest.
 A five-month study by the Scott Skodnek Business Development Center of Hofstra University in Hempstead, N.Y., found that the airport contributed more than $200 million to the local economy in 2004. 
 Of that amount, the study said, $115 million came from business conducted at the airport, while $86 million more was an ''induced'' impact from airport employees who spend their wages in the local economy on food, clothing and housing. The study also said that employment at the airport totaled 1,741 at the end of 2004. 
 Richard Guardino, dean of Hofstra University's Center for Suburban Studies, said the airport's economic effect on the region might be even more significant than the study suggests. The numbers, he says, understate spending on lodging, food and drink, entertainment and recreation, retailing and transportation by those using the airport. 
 Interest from companies looking to relocate to the MacArthur Airport corridor has grown during the airport's expansion, said Ray Ruiz of CB Richard Ellis, a commercial real estate company. ''The airport and its ability to move goods and services has naturally had a positive impact,'' he said.
 Mr. Ruiz, exclusive broker for the Airport Corporate Center in Bohemia, a 17-year-old complex with five buildings and more than 250,000 square feet of office space, said that more than 90 percent of the space at the center was occupied. Its tenants include Lucent Technologies, the National Weather Service and the Transportation Security Administration, which is responsible for civil aviation security. 
 Jack O'Connor, a broker at Newmark of Long Island, said that MacArthur Airport's expansion had helped turn development plans into reality. ''The expansion firmed up the plans of developers who were assured now that they wouldn't lose on their investments,'' he said. 
 New development in the airport area includes a 52,000-square-foot office building put up by WestRac Contracting in 2003 that is now occupied by Fabricade, a fabric distributor. A 127,500-square-foot building was recently completed by Spiegel Associates and is available for lease. The Edo Corporation, a military contractor, has already committed to take more than 94,000 square feet of that space and is expected to move in during the first quarter of this year. 
 In addition, Mr. O'Connor said, sale prices of commercial real estate in the MacArthur Airport vicinity increased by about 20 percent in the last three years, in line with the rise in commercial property prices in Suffolk County in general. 
 Built for military use, the airport was named in 1942 for Gen. Douglas MacArthur. Commercial flights started in 1960, and the airport and Southwest began their relationship in the late 1990's, when the discount airline, looking to grow, was scouting for new locations. 
 ''It was an underutilized airport, and Southwest saw potential here and took advantage of it,'' said Mr. McGowan, the Islip town supervisor.
 After long negotiations, an agreement was reached with Southwest that included a commitment by the town to expand the airport, Mr. McGowan said. The town used money from a $3 surcharge on each ticket sold at the airport to complete a $13 million renovation in 1998, and Southwest arrived in 1999. 
 Using secondary airports like MacArthur Airport has enabled Southwest to become profitable while offering relatively low ticket prices. Such airports are cheaper to serve and have less traffic, allowing the carrier's aircraft to take off again soon after landing. 
 Mr. McGowan said the town was having discussions with the other airlines that serve the airport -- Comair, Continental Express and US Airways Express -- about possible expansion plans. ''We don't want to rule anything out,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Southwest Airlines opened a $51 million concourse last August at MacArthur Airport, which is owned by the town of Islip, and plans to build another. The airline says daily flights may double in the next few years. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); AIRLINES (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TRANSPORT TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); AIRPORT OPERATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); TRENDS (74%); RELOCATIONS (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (70%); BOOKSTORES (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); STATISTICS (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Airports; Macarthur Airport (Long Island, NY); Stations and Terminals (Passenger); Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (92%); CBRE GROUP INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Southwest Airlines

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (92%); CBG (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (50%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (50%)

PERSON: Rosamaria Mancini

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Suffolk County (NY); New York State; Islip (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005



91 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; RESTAURANTS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Italian Rustic, Just Off Broadway

BYLINE: By Frank Bruni

 BODY:
ONLY a small minority of restaurants exert a pull so strong that you go to them without much consideration for their location, their type of cuisine or the nuances of their ambience. The vast majority survive because they meet a specific craving or need: for something spicy or something romantic, something inexpensive or something nearby. They punch the ticket of a whim. They solve a riddle of requirements.
 Where, for example, do you go if you don't want to shuffle more than a few paces from the Broadway theater in which the show you're seeing is playing? If you want a place that feels a bit indulgent but not remotely reckless? That favors hearty fare over dainty fillips? That pays fitting tribute to the milky glory of mozzarella?
 You go to La Masseria. And you go knowing that, while you won't have the meal of your life -- or even the meal of your month -- most of your food will be good, you will certainly eat plenty, and you will sidestep the many disasters along the Great White Way, a culinary minefield of considerable peril. 
 In fact my first meal at La Masseria was significantly better than good, and that judgment transcended the mozzarella, a subject to which I will later return. Along with a colleague, I dropped by La Masseria for lunch, not really knowing what -- beyond the probability of pasta -- to expect. 
 The restaurant was almost empty, which may be why the food was more impressively prepared than it would turn out to be on subsequent visits. The kitchen wasn't stretched anywhere close to thin.
 And so the baby octopus appetizer was a many-tentacled, many-splendored thing: supple rather than rubbery, with a garland of slightly crunchy broccoli rabe and a cushion of pureed fava beans. A tangle of tagliatelle did the Bolognese sauce atop and around it proud, providing a vehicle that was sturdy but never clunky.
 Although many Italian restaurants sputter when it comes to main courses, La Masseria zipped right along, as if on cruise control.
 A decadently thick, expansively broad veal chop, seasoned in a restrained fashion with rosemary and sage, was a juicy invitation to gluttony, which we promptly and unconditionally accepted, leaving very little meat on the bone.
 An extremely moist fillet of pompano, sauteed in a bit of butter and white wine and sprinkled judiciously with lemon, provided precisely the right, light counterpoint, reprieve and amends that we felt we needed. We decided it was O.K. to eat the whole thing, and rapidly did so.
 Then we waddled back to the office with that special brand of contentment -- a satisfaction mingled with a sense of discovery -- that you get when you've had a terrific meal at a restaurant about which no one had made grand pronouncements or promises.
 And while La Masseria occasionally disappointed me over time, that lunch underscored how diligent and deft this restaurant can be with the highlights of its menu and under the most optimal of circumstances.
 Masseria means farm or farmhouse, and it's not only the restaurant's name but also its design cue, readying the stage for walls of stone or rough stucco, exposed wooden beams along the ceiling and, dangling on some of those walls, antique farm tools: a pitchfork, harnesses.
 Thankfully, the restaurant doesn't overplay this conceit. You notice it but then forget it, holding on to a vague awareness that the visual environment, like the food, veers deliberately and fetchingly in the direction of rustic.
 But the most appealing aspect of this restaurant's setting is the dimensions. The dining room is relatively broad and extraordinarily deep, with a few unexpected nooks toward the back. All this space translates into tables that are not wedged tightly together, and the absence of crowding is a balm for the ears as well as the elbows. It helps keep a lid on noise.
 The menu ranges far and wide over land and sea, carpaccio and capesante, in a naked bid to appeal to all audiences. There are unfamiliar scene-stealers, including a dish of fettucinelike noodles with wedges of eggplant and smoked mozzarella in a light tomato sauce. There are familiar star turns, including that tagliatelle. And there are unfamiliar performances from familiar players, most conspicuously a limoncello-flavored tiramisu that, like most other desserts, was worthy of nothing more than faint applause.
 You can pretty much count on generous portions but not, sadly, on careful preparations. With the exception of that pompano and the shrimp, scallops and squid in an absolutely wonderful fritto misto, the seafood I sampled at La Masseria was overcooked. So was grilled chicken, which bore the additional indignity of too much salt.
 Other meat, including rabbit and rack of lamb, fared better. An enormous rib-eye steak was tender and flavorful enough to warrant a presentation more imaginative than the one it received. It was buried beneath an unruly clump of fried shoestring potatoes, a gimmick that grew tired about a decade ago but somehow refuses to die. Then again, maybe La Masseria was making a decorative statement with it. Maybe Mount Spud was supposed to evoke a bale of hay.
 Now to that mozzarella. La Masseria makes it fresh daily, from cow's milk, and spreads it out in large sheets. Onto those sheets goes asparagus or eggplant or sun-dried tomato or speck, and then the sheets are rolled and sliced so that the mozzarella and its company make a colorful spiral, as delectable to the eye as to the palate.
 That mozzarella goes a long way -- although not quite the full distance -- toward redeeming La Masseria's frequently off-pitch service, which caroms from excessively chatty to inexplicably absent and only occasionally hits what seems to be its intended mark, affable availability.
 While the mozzarella doesn't represent a reason to go out of your way to get to La Masseria, it argues for a stop at this restaurant if you happen to be in its vicinity: if Italy is in your thoughts, a farmhouse is on your mind, and a show is part of the rest of the afternoon's or evening's itinerary.

La Masseria
* [Rating: One Star]
235 West 48th Street (Eighth Avenue); (212) 582-2111.

ATMOSPHERE -- A farmhouse in the city that feels comfortable but not at all frumpy and has a relaxing spaciousness.
SOUND LEVEL -- Moderate.
RECOMMENDED DISHES -- Stuffed fresh mozzarella; baby octopus with broccoli rabe and fava beans; fritto misto; scialatielli with eggplant and smoked mozzarella; veal chop; rabbit; tartufo ice cream.
WINE LIST -- Mostly Italian, with a range of selections from every region and many relatively economical alternatives.
PRICE RANGE -- Lunch, appetizers, $6.50 to $14.50; pasta and entrees, $12 to $28.50. Dinner, appetizers, $7.50 to $16; pasta and entrees, $13.50 to $32.50; desserts, $7.
HOURS -- Lunch, noon to 3 p.m., and dinner, 5 p.m. to midnight, Monday to Saturday. Noon to 10 p.m. Sunday.
RESERVATIONS -- For a prime time on a weekend, call at least four days ahead.
CREDIT CARDS -- All major cards.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS -- Entrance and rest rooms at street level.

WHAT THE STARS MEAN:

(None) Poor to satisfactory
* Good
** Very good
*** Excellent
**** Extraordinary

Ratings reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change.

PAST REVIEWS from The Times, with additional capsule reviews by Times critics: nytimes.com/dining


GRAPHIC: Photo: TAGLIATELLE WESTERN -- La Masseria, in the theater district, has a farmhouse motif and a broad Italian menu. (Photo by Lars Klove for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CHEESE (88%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (88%); THEATER (70%); THEATER & DRAMA (70%) Restaurants; Reviews 

ORGANIZATION: La Masseria (NYC Restaurant)

PERSON: Frank Bruni

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005



92 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Choose and Lose

BYLINE: By Barry Schwartz. 
Barry Schwartz, a professor of psychology at Swarthmore College, is the author of ''The Paradox of Choice: Why More Is Less.''

DATELINE: SWARTHMORE, Pa. 

 BODY:
THERE are three arguments being made in favor of privatizing part of Social Security. First, the Social Security Trust Fund needs money and privatization will, in the long run, increase the amount of money available to retirees. Second, privatization will give people choice, and choice is good. And third, ''it's your money,'' and you ought to be able to do with it as you wish. 
 Each of these arguments is dubious, or disingenuous, or both. 
 Though experts differ on the urgency and the severity of the problem, most everyone agrees that the trust fund will eventually run out of money unless we do something. Two obvious and painful things we can do are decrease benefits or increase payroll taxes. Privatization, it is argued, solves the problem without the pain. Equity investments return about twice as much, historically, as Treasury bills. So by allowing people to put some of their payroll taxes into equity investments, we will increase the value of that part of their retirement account so we can then decrease the benefits paid out by the standard Social Security program and still leave retirees better off. 
 There are several problems with this argument, however. For starters, there is no guarantee that equities will return more than Treasury bills. One of the reasons that equities have a higher rate of return than other types of investments is that investors have to be compensated for taking risks. Perhaps equities will outperform Treasury bills in the long term but that doesn't mean that they will be outperforming Treasury bills at the specific moment you retire. 
 For example, a person who retired in 2000 after a lifetime of investing half in stocks and half in bonds would have had 50 percent more in his account than a person making the same investments who retired in 2003. A difference like this could mean that the lucky retiree can afford both food and medicine while the unlucky one must choose between them. The risk inherent in equity investments is unavoidable unless you can leave the investment alone indefinitely, which, of course, most retirees can't do. 
 What's more, the administrative costs of keeping track of these private accounts, according to President Bush's Commission to Strengthen Social Security, will be 10 to 30 times the cost of administering the current system, eating up almost all of the hypothetical gains that equity investments could provide.
 Finally, even if we grant the advantages of putting trust fund money into equities, this is something that the government could do without privatizing anything by doing the investing itself. The government as investor can ride out risks better than any individual investor, and administrative costs would be vastly reduced. Only brokerage houses would suffer -- from lost commissions. Thus investing in equities, which might be a good idea, is logically independent of privatization, which is a bad one. The Bush administration is deliberately conflating them.
 This brings us to the second argument in favor of privatizing Social Security: giving people options makes them better off. There is now accumulating evidence that choice isn't always good. Whether people are choosing jam in a grocery store, essay topics in a college class, or even potential partners in an evening of ''speed dating,'' the more options they have, the less likely they are to make a choice. In other words, increasing options induces people to opt out of choosing altogether, and this comes into play when people decide how to invest their money for retirement. 
 A study by Sheena Iyengar, a psychologist, and Wei Jiang, an economist, has shown that when employers increase the number of funds available to employees for voluntary 401(k) investments, the rate of participation goes down by 2 percent for every 10 funds offered. And this is true even when participating employees get free money -- matching money -- from employers. 
 So whereas there is no denying that choice is sometimes good, a case must be made for the specific benefits of choice in each particular context, rather than just assuming that the more choice people have, the better off they are. The appropriately abysmal early public response to the administration's Medicare prescription drug choice plan provides ample reason to suspect that many people will not regard being able to choose their Social Security investment instruments as a blessing.
 This brings me to the final defense of privatization: the payroll taxes you pay are your money, and you ought to be able to do what you like with your money. This, I suspect, is the real justification behind the move to privatize, and it is the worst reason of all. The payroll tax is not ''your'' money; it's our money. Social Security was created as an insurance scheme, not a pension scheme. It was meant to provide a safety net, to protect the unlucky from immiseration in old age. The benefits we get are not payouts from accounts in which we have accumulated our own private stash. What we get is largely determined by what we earned, but we keep getting it even after we've taken out every penny we put in. And if we happen to die early, someone else reaps the benefits of our contributions. 
 The Bush administration should be honest with the American people and ask us if we want to do away with Social Security, without pretending that privatization will solve the problem of financing the trust fund without pain. I suspect that the American people would reject this effort to transform their ''old-age insurance'' into another opportunity to roll the dice in the investment casino.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 11, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article on Wednesday about privatizing Social Security misstated the source for the estimate of the administrative costs of keeping track of private investment accounts. It should not have been attributed to the report of the Commission to Strengthen Social Security, but to Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, who calculated it based on figures in that report and elsewhere. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Randall Enos) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); PRIVATIZATION (91%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); TREASURY SECURITIES (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); CORPORATE TAX (74%) Social Security (US); Privatization

PERSON: Barry (Prof) Schwartz; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005



93 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 96 words

HEADLINE: Is Our Civilization in Decline?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Jared Diamond is too pessimistic about America's future. 
 We trade on an unprecedentedly large global scale. The division of labor identified by Adam Smith as the chief source of wealth is far deeper than at any time in history. A consequence is that the population growth that so worries Mr. Diamond can be a blessing. 
 When free of oppressive governments and customs, humans are the ultimate resource. We not only consume; we also create.

Donald J. Boudreaux
Fairfax, Va., Jan. 1, 2005

The writer is chairman of the economics department at George Mason University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ADAM SMITH (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005



94 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: Is Our Civilization in Decline?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Jared Diamond's warning about the possible decline of the United States is too mild. We are 6 percent of the world's population and are using 30 percent of its resources.
 Now other countries are competing for the same resources. We are inclined to get into wars rather settle differences peacefully. We think that we are invincible, but other countries will develop technology and other means to undermine us. 
 The number of retired and older people is growing. Good health care is now beyond the reach of a large percentage of the population. Most of the elite have isolated themselves from the less fortunate. Taxes and inflation are hurting the middle class. The list goes on and on.

Jack Scarangella
New Rochelle, N.Y., Jan. 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005



95 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: 3 Japanese Carmakers Gain Against Big 3 in the U.S.

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
For Japanese automakers, last year brought feast or famine in the United States. 
 Toyota, Honda and Nissan's American sales continued to surge in December, according to figures released Tuesday by the automakers, as the companies made further inroads against the Big Three domestic manufacturers, particularly General Motors and Ford Motor. 
 But it would have been hard to have a year worse than that of Mitsubishi, whose steep tailspin culminated Tuesday with news that its North American chief executive, Finbarr J. O'Neill, had resigned. With sales down 37 percent in the United States last year and the company's Japanese parent suffering through scandal and financial distress, the future of Mitsubishi Motors is uncertain. 
 Mr. O'Neill, after just 16 months on the job, leaves to become chief executive of Reynolds & Reynolds, which provides computer systems and support to auto dealers. He will be succeeded by Rich Gilligan, Mitsubishi Motors' head of manufacturing. 
 ''I believe that Mitsubishi can succeed,'' Mr. O'Neill said Tuesday, insisting that the move was his and not forced on him. ''They have good product, clearly it will take good marketing, etc. But I don't want my leaving to be understood as a negative on Mitsubishi. It was an opportunity to work at Reynolds.''
 Financial analysts were not nearly so optimistic. 
 ''This is a product-driven business and a brand-image-driven business, and Mitsubishi is in a very weak situation,'' said Wes Brown, an analyst at Iceology, a market research firm in Los Angeles. ''The only way to get out of that is to spend your way out of it.'' 
 ''That's fantasyland in the financial situation they find themselves in,'' he added, given that Mitsubishi's partner, DaimlerChrysler, ceased financing the company last year in a rancorous split. Several Mitsubishi executives were also arrested last year and accused of hiding defects in trucks sold in Japan.
 Over all, industry sales were helped by year-end discounting in December, rebounding strongly from a limp November and up 3.6 percent from a strong pace set in December 2003, according to Ward's AutoInfoBank. 
 Automakers expect last year's robust sales of nearly 17 million cars and trucks to be repeated this year, but add that aggressive discounting will continue because the industry is producing more than enough vehicles to meet demand. 
 ''A lot of signals were positive,'' said Gary Dilts, chief industry sales analyst for the Chrysler division of DaimlerChrysler. ''We watched Wall Street take some pretty good gains as the month proceeded; we saw consumer confidence going north; we see interest rates still low; we saw fuel prices going down.''
 ''When you mix all that together, it makes you feel pretty good about the economy,'' he said. ''It certainly didn't look and feel that good over the prior 60 to 90 days.'' 
 Among the Big Three automakers, Chrysler was the bright spot last year, buoyed by continued strength in boldly styled new products like the Chrysler 300 sedan. At Daimler, which includes Mercedes, sales rose 6.3 percent last month, according to Ward's, which adjusts sales figures for the number of selling days in comparable months. 
 For the year, Daimler's share of the United States market rose to 14.4 percent from 14.1 percent in 2003, according to Autodata.
 But many analysts say it is only a matter of time before Toyota, the fourth-largest seller of cars and trucks in the United States, surpasses DaimlerChrysler and breaks up the traditional Big Three. 
 On Tuesday, Toyota said it had become the first Japanese automaker to sell more than two million cars and trucks annually in the United States. The company's sales rose 18 percent in December, and in 2004 its share of the market grew to 12.2 percent from 11.2 percent a year earlier, even as it slightly lowered its spending on rebates and other incentives. 
 ''It's not a knock on DaimlerChrysler, it's simply that Toyota's growth will be more rapid,'' said Joe Barker, manager of North American sales analysis for CSM Worldwide. Mr. Barker recently forecast that Toyota would surpass Daimler by 2009. 
 When will Toyota overtake Daimler?
 ''We don't ponder those kinds of questions,'' said Jim Press, chief operating officer of Toyota Motor Sales. ''I don't know if that'll happen, or when. Our focus is more about what we're doing and what our plans are for slow and steady growth.''
 Mr. Press said Toyota's overall growth this year was accelerated by larger-than-expected demand for its new youth brand, Scion, and its hybrid electric car, the Prius. The company is adding two more hybrid vehicles in the United States this year in versions of its Toyota Highlander and Lexus RX sport utility vehicles. And Mr. Press said Tuesday that Toyota's next hybrid would be a version of its Lexus GS sedan, but declined to say when it would appear. 
 G.M. and Ford, the top two sellers in the United States, lost market share last year even as they ratcheted up incentive spending -- domestic brands fell below 60 percent of the market for the first time last year. Paul Ballew, G.M.'s chief industry sales analyst, said the company ''can't say we're overly pleased with the final end results in '04 -- it was a tough year for us.''
 In December, G.M. sales fell 6.8 percent, according to Ward's, and Ford sales fell 3.4 percent. This year, analysts are concerned that G.M. will struggle because its large S.U.V.'s and pickups are among the industry's oldest offerings. 
 ''The age of our large trucks is a challenge, but having said that, we're more than holding our own with those vehicles,'' Mr. Ballew said.
 Steve Lyons, the top executive at Ford Motor's Ford brand, said the company had continued to see a shift away from large sport utility vehicles, one of its core profit centers.
 ''This will mark the second straight year of declines in traditional midsized and full-sized S.U.V.'s,'' he said, adding that the company's smaller S.U.V.'s were ''picking away at the larger ones.''
 ''Clearly the gas situation has had an impact,'' he said. 
 Ford sales of passenger cars rose for the first time in nearly two years in December, buoyed by new offerings like the Ford Five Hundred sedan. 
 Mr. Ballew said he was doubtful that volatile gas prices were greatly affected buyer behavior. 
 ''How much do gas prices factor in?'' he said. ''We look for it. It's just not something that we point to as the primary factor.''
 By contrast, Mr. Press of Toyota said, ''the combination of the gas prices and this conflict in the Middle East over a source of oil has created a different mind-set among many customers,'' adding that ''the interest in hybrids really reflects that.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Toyota said yesterday that it had become the first Japanese maker to sell over two million cars and trucks annually in the United States. (Photo by David J. Phillip/Associated Press)Chart: ''Auto Sales in December''ANNUAL SELLING RATEFor cars and light trucks (includes minivans, sport utility vehicles and pickups) sold in the United States.Graph tracks light truck and car sales from July 2003 through Dec. 2004INDUSTRY SALESFor vehicles sold in the United States.Cars2004: 652,0952003: 581,007CHANGE*: +8.1%Light trucks2004: 885,6062003: 847,694CHANGE*: +0.6Total2004: 1,537,7012003: 1,428,701CHANGE*: +3.6CAR SALESLeading U.S. sellers.G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 162,184CHANGE: -7.4%MARKET SHARE: 24.9%ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 96,502CHANGE: +28.9MARKET SHARE: 14.8Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 83,200CHANGE: -0.8MARKET SHARE: 12.8HondaNUMBER SOLD: 79,619CHANGE: +32.1MARKET SHARE: 12.2DaimlerChryslerNUMBER SOLD: 63,101CHANGE: +27.5MARKET SHARE: 9.7NissanNUMBER SOLD: 44,629CHANGE: +15.7MARKET SHARE: 6.8TOP-SELLING VEHICLESThe most popular vehicles and changes from a year earlier.Ford F-SeriesNUMBER SOLD: 95,392CHANGE: +8.5%Chevrolet SilveradoNUMBER SOLD: 65,779CHANGE: -7.1Honda AccordNUMBER SOLD: 38,244CHANGE: +39.3Toyota CamryNUMBER SOLD: 35,032CHANGE: +13.1Dodge RamNUMBER SOLD: 33,781CHANGE: -18.9Chevrolet MalibuNUMBER SOLD: 28,790CHANGE: +38.9Chevrolet ImpalaNUMBER SOLD: 28,380CHANGE: +33.5Honda CivicNUMBER SOLD: 26,959CHANGE: +22.2Toyota CorollaNUMBER SOLD: 26,408CHANGE: +29.0Chevrolet TrailblazerNUMBER SOLD: 25,870CHANGE: +7.2Ford ExplorerNUMBER SOLD: 24,994CHANGE: -27.8Dodge CaravanNUMBER SOLD: 24,994CHANGE: +27.4LIGHT TRUCK SALESLeading U.S. sellers.G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 266,884CHANGE: -6.4%MARKET SHARE: 30.1%Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 204,627CHANGE: -4.4MARKET SHARE: 23.1DaimlerChrysler++NUMBER SOLD: 162,829CHANGE: -0.1MARKET SHARE: 18.4ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 91,430CHANGE: +8.3MARKET SHARE: 10.3HondaNUMBER SOLD: 57,762CHANGE: +27.5MARKET SHARE: 6.5NissanNUMBER SOLD: 47,670CHANGE: +53.8MARKET SHARE: 5.4*Based on average daily sales, including fleet sales, adjusted for any differences in the number of selling days in a month.+Includes Volvo and Land Rover sales.++Includes MercedesBenz sales.(Source by Wards AutoInfoBank) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (93%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (93%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (86%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (75%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); SCANDALS (74%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (71%); BRANDING (66%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Automobiles; Sales; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Automobiles; Biographical Information; Appointments and Executive Changes; Automobiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (90%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (72%); REYNOLDS & REYNOLDS CO (58%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Toyota Motor Corp; Honda Motor Co; Nissan Motor Co; Daimlerchrysler Ag; Ford Motor Co; General Motors Corp; Ward's Auto Info Bank; Reynolds & Reynolds Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (90%); F (NYSE) (90%); 7211 (TSE) (72%); 7201 (TSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); SIC2761 MANIFOLD BUSINESS FORMS (58%)

PERSON: Finbarr O'Neill; Rich Gilligan; Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005



96 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: No Pain, No Savings

BYLINE: By Gene Sperling. 
Gene Sperling, a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, was national economic adviser to President Bill Clinton from 1997 to 2001.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IF President Bush truly wants a bipartisan agreement on Social Security reform, he should recognize that he can keep the system solvent, increase savings and promote his ownership agenda without dividing Washington by carving Social Security into private accounts. 
 The president can promote the individual ownership he wants and protect the guaranteed Social Security benefits Democrats insist on with a new universal 401(k) that offers all Americans a private retirement account in addition to Social Security, and uses government funds to match contributions made by moderate and lower-income workers.
 A universal 401(k) would increase savings far more than partly privatizing Social Security. Privatization that simply allocates part of the current 12.4 percent Social Security payroll tax for employees to invest in private accounts does nothing to increase national savings: it's like taking $1,000 a year from your parent's 401(k) and putting it in your own individual retirement account. Allowing people to invest some of their Social Security payroll taxes in the market simply adds risk to the one risk-free leg of the retirement stool. If instead people could invest in universal 401(k) accounts -- in addition to Social Security -- that provided new incentives to those families having the hardest time putting money away, America would actually leverage new savings, not just shift existing savings around. 
 Such accounts would also help remedy America's upside-down tax incentives for retirement savings. Taxpayers in the highest income bracket, 35 percent, not only are more likely to get a matching contribution for their savings from a 401(k) at work, but also get to deduct 35 cents from their taxes for each dollar saved in their 401(k). Meanwhile, most working families in the 15 percent bracket do not get matching contributions from an employer-sponsored pension -- and when they do save they get only a 15-cent deduction for each dollar.
 A universal 401(k) would give the greatest matching tax incentives to those who need the most help saving, with a dollar-for-dollar match by the government for initial contributions by moderate-income workers and even more for the working poor. A universal 401(k) could further promote savings if financed in a fiscally responsible manner -- say, by raising the estate-tax exemption to $5 million per couple from today's $3 million, but avoiding the outright repeal scheduled under current law. For every wealthy estate that faced higher taxes, more than 5,000 Americans would get a tax cut to help them save and someday build an estate of their own.
 To win Democratic support for a Social Security fix, President Bush must also commit to mutual sacrifice. The administration's tax cuts already save the richest 1 percent of Americans nearly $100 billion a year, an amount that over time would keep Social Security solvent for 75 years. Before President Bush can ask Democrats to go along with any tax or benefit changes that affect average Americans, he needs to ask this most fortunate group to help bear the burden of reform.
 The president should propose a 3 percent surcharge on all income over $200,000 -- whether from earnings, dividends or capital gains -- and use the money to increase national savings now and help keep Social Security solvent. He could make the deal contingent on a bipartisan agreement to find equivalent savings to shore up Social Security through measured revenue and benefit changes.
 This strategy would require real compromise. But if the president wants to strengthen savings, promote his ''ownership society'' and keep Social Security solvent, he could use these measures to light the way to the bipartisan agreement he needs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US 401K PLANS (92%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (92%); SOCIAL SECURITY (92%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); FAMILY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); CORPORATE TAX (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); MATCHING GIFTS (56%) Social Security (US); Pensions and Retirement Plans

PERSON: Gene Sperling; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005



97 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing Washington: Republican Lobbying Group Forming

BYLINE: By Glen Justice (NYT)

 BODY:
Stephen Moore, president of the Club for Growth, which raised almost $20 million to support Republican candidates in last year's election, said he was leaving the organization to form an advocacy group that will lobby for Republican positions on economic issues like tax reform and Social Security. 
The new group, the Free Enterprise Fund, hopes to raise about $15 million for television advertising and other lobbying to bolster President Bush's domestic agenda in Congress. The group will try to marshal support among Republican lawmakers and ''hold their feet to the fire,'' Mr. Moore said. Glen Justice (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); DISMISSALS (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (85%); LEGISLATION (85%); TAX LAW (84%); TAX REFORM (55%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (53%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (53%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (53%) United States Economy; Law and Legislation; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

ORGANIZATION: Free Enterprise Fund (Orgn); Club for Growth (Orgn)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%) George W (Pres) Bush; Stephen Moore; Glen Justice

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005



98 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE CONFLICT IN IRAQ: VIEW FROM WASHINGTON; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Said to Weigh Sanctions on Syria Over Iraqi Network

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is considering imposing new sanctions on Syria to prod it to crack down on Iraqis there who are providing financial and logistical support to insurgents in Iraq, senior American counterterrorism officials said Tuesday.
 The Syrian government has not taken action against the network of Iraqis, the officials said, despite months of quiet protests from the United States. Among the steps being considered is a Treasury Department action that could essentially isolate the Syrian banking system.
 The network includes former officials of Saddam Hussein's government, American officials have said, adding that intelligence gathered in recent months from informants, captives and intercepted communications suggested that the network's role in providing support to insurgents in Iraq was more extensive than previously suspected. 
 While the anti-American insurgency would continue to thrive even without help from Syria, the American officials say, Iraqis in Syria are playing a significant role in coordinating the flows of money, weapons and combatants inside Iraq. 
 Syrian officials have sought to rebut the American criticism by saying the United States has yet to provide them with sufficient accurate information to prompt action against the individual Iraqis who the Americans say are in the network. 
 ''We have told the Americans to please give us any information you have regarding this subject, but some of the information has not been credible,'' said Ammar Alarsan, a spokesman for the Syrian Embassy in Washington.
 Among Iraqis believed to be living at least part time in Syria and playing an active role in the insurgency are several of Mr. Hussein's close relatives. In addition, Izzat Ibrahim, the No.2 official in Iraq under Mr. Hussein and now the most-wanted Iraqi still sought by the United States, has traveled to and from Syria in the past 18 months, American officials say. In recent weeks the interim Iraqi government and its American backers have become increasingly outspoken in calling attention to what it describes as a regional command in exile in Syria.
 The American officials would speak about Syria only on condition of anonymity, saying they did not want their comments to overshadow recent public remarks by Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the top American commander in Iraq, Richard L. Armitage, the deputy secretary of state, and others. 
 The officials interviewed represented several government agencies involved in counterterrorism policy, including those favoring a more patient approach toward Syria and those urging a harder line.
 General Casey said publicly last month that the United States had ''fairly good information'' that some senior former officials of the Iraqi Baath Party had established a high command that was ''operating out of Syria with impunity and providing direction and financing for the insurgency in Iraq.'' 
 ''That needs to stop,'' General Casey said in a Dec. 16 briefing at the Pentagon. 
 On a visit to Syria over the weekend, Mr. Armitage delivered what one American official described as a ''stern warning'' to the Damascus government. Adam Ereli, the department's deputy spokesman, said Monday that Mr. Armitage had emphasized ''that there's still a problem with former regime elements using Syria to help the insurgency and that it was very important to have that stopped.''
 American and Syrian officials have held high-level meetings in recent months to address their differences, and Syria has said repeatedly that it is committed to working with the United States toward a peaceful, unified Iraq. In recent days Mr. Armitage and other American officials have gone out of their way to praise Syria for taking steps to secure its border with Iraq and prevent foreign fighters from crossing the border to reinforce the insurgency.
 But a senior American counterterrorism official said the steps taken by Syria so far were unsatisfactory. ''More and more, we're seeing groups funded and supported by former regime elements, and they are operating out of and with the support of the Syrian government,'' the official said. He said that he was not accusing the Syrian government of providing direct support to the insurgency, but that ''we haven't yet seen them take appropriate action to prevent the funding and the transport of weapons.''
 Among the relatives of Mr. Hussein who have spent time in Syria and are believed to have played a leading role in financing the insurgency is Fatiq Suleiman al-Majid, a cousin of Mr. Hussein and a former officer in Iraq's Special Security Organization. 
 Syria has long been subject to limited economic sanctions by the United States because of its designation by the State Department as a sponsor of terrorism. Under pressure from Congress, the Bush administration imposed additional measures last spring that prohibit exports to Syria of most goods, excluding food and medicine, and prohibit commercial flights between the United States and Syria by Syrian-owned aircraft.
 The main additional tool being weighed by the administration for possible further sanctions, the counterterrorism officials said, is authority wielded by the Treasury Department, which in May labeled the Commercial Bank of Syria a financial institution of ''primary money laundering concern.'' 
 The designation was a response to what the department called the role played by the Syrian bank in laundering money illegally diverted by Mr. Hussein's government from the United Nations-administered oil-for-food program. 
 Further steps by the Treasury are possible, the most severe of which would be to prohibit any American bank, broker or mutual fund from dealing with the Syrian bank, the country's single government-owned financial institution that specializes in foreign exchange transactions.
 One American counterterrorism official said the threat of further action had already served to focus Syrian attention on the problem. The official said Treasury officials had met several times in recent months with their Syrian counterparts to discuss the issue. 
 A second counterterrorism official said there remained ''a wide range of views'' within the administration about taking further action against Syria, with the State Department most opposed. The official said the Pentagon in particular was pressing for a more aggressive approach.
 ''This is not the Ho Chi Minh trail that's keeping the insurgency alive,'' the official said. ''But if Syria were to take action, it would have an impact.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States International Relations; Banks and Banking; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: Treasury Department

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%) Douglas Jehl; Saddam Hussein; Izzat Ibrahim; Richard (Deputy Sec) Armitage

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (98%); SYRIA (96%) Iraq; Syria; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005



99 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Delta Plans To Streamline Fare System

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
Delta Air Lines plans to start today a sweeping program to streamline its fare system, capping economy-class fares at $499 each way and eliminating the mandatory Saturday night stay.
 While many low-fare companies already charge less than $499 for their highest-priced tickets, the Delta program is the most extensive fare adjustment by a traditional airline since a similar effort by American Airlines in 1992.
 As with American's program, which was abandoned amid pressure from competitors to raise fares, word of Delta's plans drew criticism. 
 Yesterday, Northwest Airlines said such a program could ''immediately adversely and significantly affect'' revenue in the industry, which has lost $30 billion since 2000.
 But Paul G. Matsen, a Delta senior vice president and the airline's chief marketing officer, said Delta did not care if its major rivals followed suit. ''This was designed as a Delta solution,'' he said. ''We're not trying to impose an industry solution.'' 
 In fact, the fare program, which takes effect today, is a gamble for Delta, the nation's third-biggest airline behind American and United. Last fall, Delta averted bankruptcy only after its pilots agreed to $1 billion in concessions. The airline is saddled with $20 billion in debt, and its cash shrank by nearly half in 2004.
 Mr. Matsen said Delta anticipated the lower ticket prices when it drafted a revamping plan last September that called for $5 billion in cost cuts through 2006. As part of the plan, Delta plans to cut as many as 7,000 jobs and is closing its hub in Dallas.
 The program, called Simplifares, expands a plan the airline put in place last August in Cincinnati. Delta controls more than 90 percent of the flights there, but more than 2,500 passengers a day defected to nearby airports served by low-fare rivals. Since the plan was started in Cincinnati, Delta estimated its business had climbed 30 percent.
 Delta's plans were first reported on Sunday by Time magazine.
 Under the program, Delta will eliminate dozens of fares and offer only eight -- six in coach, two in first class. It will not charge more than $499 each way for an economy-class flight within the 48 contiguous states, or $599 each way for a first-class flight, not including taxes or fees. 
 The fares, which represent up to a 50 percent savings on those in effect until today, will also apply to tickets bought the last minute. Delta eliminated the requirement that passengers stay over a Saturday night to get its lowest fares. 
 But in a move that may upset some consumers, Delta is joining its rivals in imposing fees of $5 for a ticket bought through its toll-free reservation line or $10 for a ticket bought at the airport, an idea started last summer by Northwest. There are no fees for tickets bought through its Web site.
 Even with the caps, Delta's highest fare is $200 more than the highest charged by Southwest, JetBlue and other low-fare rivals, many of which also offer simplified fare structures. 
 But Mr. Matsen said that 70 percent of Delta's customers in coach were already paying less than the caps. He said passengers who had already booked tickets at higher fares could get a refund for the difference between their tickets and the lower fares, minus a $50 change fee.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Delta plans to cap economy-class fares at $499 and end the Saturday night stay. A traveler checks the board at O'Hare Airport in Chicago. (Photo by Tim Boyle/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); AIR FARES (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%) Airlines and Airplanes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (90%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Delta Air Lines ; Northwest Airlines

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (90%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%)

PERSON: Paul Matsen; Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) ILLINOIS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005



100 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; ASIA'S DEADLY WAVES: RELIEF; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Slow Start for an American Agency That Is Hemmed In, as Many Are, by Logistics

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

DATELINE: BANDA ACEH, Indonesia, Wednesday, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
They have a fleet of S.U.V.'s, each labeled with a large window sticker to note the arrival of Catholic Relief Services in this battered city. They have opened a headquarters and hired drivers, laborers, even a cook. 
 But 10 days after a wall of water destroyed half of this city, workers from Catholic Relief Services, based in Baltimore, have still not delivered any direct aid here. That is a source of frustration. But it is also a demonstration of the great difficulty of setting up a relief operation in such a remote location, at the western edge of Indonesia, which until recently had been off limits for most American aid groups because of fighting between the government and separatists. 
 ''Stress and frustration is what makes things happen,'' said Wayne Ulrich, who serves as the C.R.S. emergency assistance coordinator in Indonesia, acknowledging his disappointment with the pace of progress. ''The more you are concerned, the faster things will get done.''
 Catholic Relief Services arrived in Banda Aceh with a modest goal: deliver about 740 ''family packs'' -- which include a mattress, pots, soap, toothbrushes -- to some of the hundreds of thousands of people left homeless in this lush mountainous province. The packs are just a small part of the $25 million effort the agency is undertaking in India, Sri Lanka and Indonesia. As of Wednesday, the kits were still in Jakarta. 
 Various ways that C.R.S. has considered to get the family kits to Banda Aceh and then into the surrounding areas have failed. 
 At first, the agency considered putting them on a military flight or accepting an offer from an international courier company to fly them to a small airport here. Both options were rejected because the charity's officials could not get guarantees that the kits would be given to families that were really in need. 
 Mr. Ulrich also proposed flying the kits from Jakarta, where they were assembled, to Medan, the largest city in the region, and then delivering them the final distance to Aceh by truck. But that idea was also abandoned, in part because of concern that there might not be enough fuel. 
 That has left several employees with little to do but set up the office. ''I want to do something that helps,'' said one, Nasharuddin, 31, who uses only one name. ''I feel guilty. All of these displaced people, but we have no capacity.''
 Catholic Relief Services is certainly not the only charity to get off to a slow start. But some groups already have made a major contribution to the growing response. 
 The International Organization for Migration, which is based in Geneva, working with the United States Agency for International Development, has assembled 32 trucks that have been moving tens of thousands of pounds of food, which has been lifted by American helicopters to devastated communities.
 Oxfam, the international group that was founded in Britain, has started building new water systems and toilets in certain neighborhoods. Doctors Without Borders has a crew working from a helicopter. Mercy Corps, based in Oregon, has also been delivering trucks of food. 
 Part of the reason supplies and aid have been provided by some but not other organizations has to do with their fundamental orientation. Doctors Without Borders, for example, routinely flies physicians into disasters on short notice. 
 Catholic Relief Services is also an emergency response outfit, but its primary role is to provide long-term services to combat AIDS, hunger and other needs in places afflicted by poverty, war or natural disaster. 
 A lack of familiarity with the Aceh region has also slowed the group's startup. The International Organization for Migration was able to deliver food quickly because it already had large offices in Banda Aceh and Medan. Its staff of 21 here was immediately reassigned to disaster relief when the tsunami hit, said Mariees de la Cruz, a local representative. 
 ''Far and away, they are the best organized right now in terms of getting assistance out,'' said Michael Balk, of the Agency for International Development, who was helping arrange the delivery of food. 
 Catholic Relief Services has not previously had a field operation in Banda Aceh. In India, where it has a much larger presence, the group was able to move more quickly to help open shelters for displaced families. 
 In Banda Aceh, the first employee to arrive here after the earthquake was Eko Priadana Morcky, 31, who hitched a ride on a military flight, landing here two days after the disaster. But his mission was primarily personal: he grew up here. On arrival he found that his grandmother, four aunts and uncles and several nieces and nephews were dead. 
 Four other staff members, led by Mr. Ulrich, came on Jan. 1, five days after the earthquake, a delay for which they blamed the difficulty finding seats on planes from Jakarta, where the charity has a large office. Since then the team has hired about a dozen people for its local staff, rented four S.U.V.'s and a truck, and found a building for its headquarters, although they were forced to pay perhaps double the normal prices because of the intense competition among relief agencies. 
 Mr. Ulrich has been busy dealing with the Indonesian government, other nonprofit groups and the United Nations to identify the long-term role that Catholic Relief Services will play once it has sufficient equipment and staff members in place. The entire western coast of the province was devastated by the tsunami and will need years of assistance to rebuild water and sanitation facilities, housing, roads and bridges. 
 Mr. Ulrich took a helicopter tour of the coast with other relief officials, identifying areas with the most urgent needs that his group could most effectively meet. Soon, he hopes, C.R.S. will take charge of coordinating the delivery of food and other services. In the short term, the agency plans to finance other groups' assistance programs. 
 Wednesday afternoon, several top Catholic Relief Services officials from Baltimore are arriving to assist. The trucks, with the agency's stickers on their windshields, sat most of the day in the driveway of the new headquarters. But soon enough, they will be moving, staff members said, working on a job that could last several years, if not longer. 
 ''It's going to take time,'' Mr. Ulrich said. ''But it has been slow for everybody.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The debris-strewn streets of Banda Aceh. The scope of the tsunami's destruction is slowing the start of relief efforts by foreign groups. (Photo by Eugene Hoshiko/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (94%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); CHARITIES (87%); TSUNAMIS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); AIRPORTS (73%); FAMILY (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); HOMELESSNESS (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (69%); PHILANTHROPY (67%); DISPLACED PERSONS (65%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (62%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (50%) Earthquakes; Philanthropy; Tidal Waves 

ORGANIZATION: CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES (94%); DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (59%) Doctors Without Borders; Catholic Relief Services; Oxfam

PERSON: Eric Lipton

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (92%) SUMATRA, INDONESIA (95%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (76%) Indonesia; Aceh Province (Indonesia); Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Indian Ocean

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005



101 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Ex-WorldCom Directors Agree to Settle Lawsuits
Ten former directors of WorldCom have agreed to pay $18 million of their own money to settle a lawsuit by investors who lost money when the company collapsed in July 2002.
 The accord by directors to dig into their own pockets is a remarkable concession. Corporate directors have always relied on their company's insurance to cover costs associated with securities cases. [Page A1.]

CNN Ends Link to Commentator
CNN has ended its relationship with the conservative commentator Tucker Carlson, left, and will shortly cancel its daily political discussion show, ''Crossfire.'' Mr. Carlson said he had actually quit ''Crossfire'' last April and that he had agreed to stay on until his contract expired. Mr. Carlson is exploring options with MSNBC for a talk show. [C5.]

Bush Outlining Social Security Plan
President Bush, who is deciding on details of his plan to add personal investment accounts to Social Security, is trying to win the support of Republicans while attracting at least a handful of Democrats in Congress. [A1.]

Ghostly Influence of Cable at Show
Cable companies are not attending the Consumer Electronics Show, but their influence is felt, as equipment makers seek to work with, or bypass, the cable industry's control over the way most Americans watch TV. [C8.]

Disease Hurts Brazilian Soybeans
Soybean farmers in Brazil have been hurt by a decline in exports, a bumper crop in the United States and a fungus from Asia. [C6.]

Hunting for High Returns
Some of the largest pension funds, insurance companies and endowments are speculating on oil prices. Market Place. [C9.]

Sales Fall at Circuit City Stores
Shares of Circuit City Stores plunged after it said December sales fell 5.8 percent. Sales by retailers, many of which will report December results today, are expected to have risen as much as 3.5 percent, according to the International Council of Shopping Centers, which monitors 75 chains. Sales growth probably slowed from a year earlier as higher fuel prices crimped the budgets of low-income consumers, analysts said. [C2.]

Stocks Continue 2005 Slide
The Dow Jones industrials lost 32.95 points, to 10,597.83. The Standard & Poor's 500 index declined 4.31 points, to 1,183.74. The Nasdaq composite slipped 16.62 points, to 2,091.24. [C9.]

Rise in Thefts at Construction Sites
Thieves are taking everything from lumber to screw guns and backhoes from construction sites, costing the industry nearly $1 billion a year. Small Business. [C7.]

You Are What You Wear
Rich people buy expensive things to show off and signal their status, a doctoral thesis found. Alan B. Krueger: Economic Scene. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,597.83 down 32.95Nasdaq composite -- 2,091.24 down 16.6210-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.28% down 0.01The euro -- $1.3259 down 0.0014The dollar -- 104.09 yen down 0.41Graph tracks Circuit City's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAILERS (87%); RETAIL SALES (86%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); INSURANCE (76%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (71%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (71%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (71%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); SOYBEAN FARMING (70%); TRADE SHOWS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); CIRCUIT CITY STORES INC (53%); YOU ARE WHAT YOU EAT INC (51%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (90%); VZ (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (53%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (53%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (51%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005



102 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: Breaking Free of Cable's Stranglehold

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
Cable television companies are not among the exhibitors here at the Consumer Electronics Show. But their influence is everywhere, as equipment makers seek to work with -- or bypass -- the cable industry's bottleneck control over the way most Americans watch TV.
 All the approaches address the central fact that consumers of most current versions of digital cable service -- the kind with the most channels and advanced features -- must now use a set-top box provided by the cable system, usually for a monthly rental fee. 
 Those cable company boxes make it hard for most of the devices that are on center stage here, like flashy flat-screen televisions or advanced video recorders, to truly control the signals they are receiving. Moreover, the cable companies are increasingly muscling in on the electronics makers' business by enhancing their set-top boxes with digital video recording abilities and other new features. 
 That cable trend has been a particular threat to TiVo, which virtually invented the digital video recorder business in the late 1990's, but has struggled lately -- in large part because it is difficult for TiVo's machines to change channels on a digital cable system. 
 TiVo is using this week's show to announce several moves to bypass cable systems, by using the Internet and personal computers as media for television delivery and viewing. ''Offering service through one of the primary cable platforms is not the best way to grow our business at this time, because the economics are not very attractive,'' said Michael Ramsey, TiVo's chief executive. Instead, ''we have decided to embrace the PC as our friend.'' As the various other consumer electronics companies here weigh whether to work with or end-run the cable systems, none of their options are entirely satisfactory.
 Some, like Panasonic and Hewlett-Packard, have embraced the uncomfortable industry compromise that was brokered by the Federal Communications Commission. The F.C.C., seeking to curtail cable's hegemony, has required cable companies to give subscribers the option of forgoing a cable set-top box by renting a device the size of a credit card that can be inserted into a television or video recorder and allowing it to tune into the cable system's digital channels. 
 But this system, called CableCard, does not yet allow users to tap into the most advanced services, like video-on-demand programming, that are among the main selling points of digital cable.
 The new Media Hub that Hewlett-Packard is showing here is a computer using the Linux operating system, a machine that includes a video recorder and two high-definition television tuners. It has a CableCard slot. 
 Panasonic makes televisions that accept CableCards, but its slow-selling DVD-based video recorders do not. ''The cable companies are heavily promoting their video recorders,'' said Yoshi Yamada, the chief executive of Panasonic's North American operations. ''There is no question that is affecting our DVD recorder business.'' 
 A few manufacturers, though, have found ways to work more closely with the cable industry. Samsung, for example, is announcing deals this week that will allow it to build televisions that can use advanced services from the Time Warner and Charter Communications cable systems without need of separate set-top boxes. But for now, those Samsung sets will not work with other cable systems -- including those of the biggest cable company, Comcast. 
 Digeo, an electronics company controlled by the billionaire Paul Allen, is offering a fancy set-top box with a video recorder and other features that it would distribute through the cable system operators. It has a few tests going, including with Charter, which is also controlled by Mr. Allen. 
 And others are trying to find ways to bypass the cable companies entirely. The biggest proponents of this approach are the big telephone companies, like SBC Communications, which are using their high-speed DSL lines to offer video services, using hardware from companies like 2Wire, which like SBC is an exhibitor here. 
 Meanwhile, Microsoft, which has been trying to muscle into the consumer electronics business, is playing all sides. It has software that is being used in cable boxes now under test by Comcast. It is supporting Internet television offerings by SBC and BellSouth. And it announced here on Wednesday a deal to make music videos from MTV available to users of its Windows Media Center PC's.
 ''There will be a very healthy dynamic of competition between the cable companies offering data, voice and video, and the phone companies offering data, voice and video,'' Bill Gates, Microsoft's chairman, said in an interview Tuesday. ''We're making all our best work available to all these people.''
 Microsoft figures prominently in TiVo's cable bypass strategy. TiVo is announcing a pact here with Microsoft that lets programs recorded on the TiVo be watched on a computer screen and on a Portable Media Center, a class of hand-held video devices designed by Microsoft and made by several manufacturers including Samsung.
 TiVo is also introducing technology meant to allow users to download video programs from the Internet and watch them on their televisions with the use of their TiVo recorder. 
 In addition, TiVo says it plans to introduce a new line of recorders that will accept CableCards. The company has declined to say when new machines will be introduced or how much they will cost. And the company is sharply critical of what it calls the cable industry's half-hearted support of CableCard. 
 The cable industry, for its part, bristles at the accusations of the electronics makers. It is fighting to have one part of the current F.C.C. rules on CableCard relaxed: the requirement that, starting in mid-2006, set-top boxes provided by the cable operators must eventually use CableCards. The cable companies say that rule adds an unnecessary expense to the boxes, but the electronics makers say it is the only way to force the cable companies to properly support CableCard technology. 
 Moreover, the cable companies say they will support technology that would make it possible to use advanced services like video-on-demand with CableCards. But negotiations to establish technical standards have been going slowly, prompting the cable industry's critics to accuse it of deliberate delays. 
 Cable executives deny the charge. ''The cable industry is not holding up an agreement on two-way cable cards in order to have a hold on the retail set-top box market,'' said Brian Dietz, a spokesman for the National Cable and Telecommunications Association. He said the complexity of the technical issues made a quick resolution difficult. 
 This delay, whatever its justification, may be life-threatening for TiVo. TiVo's chief, Mr. Ramsey, says the new initiatives announced here will allow the company to differentiate its offerings from those of the cable operators as well as from the features of other video recorders. 
 ''This will allow us to position the company as a premium supplier of home entertainment and separate ourselves from generic base-level'' video recorders, Mr. Ramsey said. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Ramsay, chief executive of TiVo, says the digital recorder company plans to use the Internet and personal computers, rather than cable systems and television, as the media for delivery of programming. (Photo by Marty Katz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE INDUSTRY (92%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (91%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (89%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (79%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (78%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (76%); CD & DVD DRIVES (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (74%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (65%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Television; Consumer Electronics Show; Trade Shows and Fairs; Recording Equipment; Recordings (Video); Computers and the Internet; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Television

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Tivo Inc

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: Saul Hansell; Michael Ramsay

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005



103 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 2; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1810 words

HEADLINE: With Cameras on the Corner, Your Ticket Is in the Mail

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MILLER

 BODY:
ON a perfectly clear day in October, Carla Correa, a confessed neurotic when it comes to getting a ticket, powered her Honda Civic toward an intersection in Baltimore on her way to visit her boyfriend in Washington. When the light turned yellow, she did not simply cruise through, but instead slammed on the brakes.
 Seconds later, a truck rammed her from behind, and her car was wrecked.
 Why would she do such a thing? The answer could be found in a box mounted on a nearby post, with a lens pointed at her license plate.
 ''It's an intersection that I've been through a million times before, and I knew that it was a quick yellow light,'' Ms. Correa, 25, said in a telephone interview. She also knew that the intersection was equipped with a camera. ''And when I saw the yellow, I freaked out.'' 
 Though unhurt, Ms. Correa has made a resolution: from now on, if it seems the light is about to turn red, she is going to run it. ''If I hadn't known there was a red-light camera there, I would have gone through,'' she said. ''Every time I see the red-light camera, I'm terrified by it. It's a $70 ticket.'' (Actually, it's $75.) 
 Her experience is not an anomaly. Cameras like the one she spotted are now in use in more than 100 American cities. Activated by road sensors when a car enters an intersection belatedly, the systems provide evidence of a violation, including photos of the license plate and in some cases, the driver. 
 While Baltimore reports that violations for running red lights have gone down 60 percent at the 47 intersections with such cameras, several studies in recent years -- in places like San Diego, Charlotte, N.C., and Australia -- have offered a fuzzier picture. The studies have shown that the reduction in side-angle collisions at the intersections has been wholly or largely offset by an increase in rear-end accidents like Ms. Correa's. 
 In addition, there has been criticism of the cameras' use to generate revenue from fines -- in some cases exceeding $300 per violation, with points on a driver's record -- and of revenue-sharing arrangements with providers of the technology. Those arrangements, critics contend, have led to the placement of cameras not necessarily where they would best promote safety, but where they will rack up the most violations.
 Those questions, along with malfunctions and legal challenges, have led some local governments to remove the cameras. Virginia's legislature is considering whether to renew a law, expiring in July, that permits the cameras, used in six Virginia cities. 
 Despite the problems, many cities, including Philadelphia and Cincinnati, are moving forward in installing automated red-light cameras. Many others couldn't be happier with the technology. ''We think it's doing a wonderful job,'' said Steve Galgano, executive director for engineering in the traffic division of the Department of Transportation in New York City, where 50 such cameras are in operation -- along with 200 decoys -- at periodically changing locations.
 The story of the red-light camera is one of technology, safety, politics, behavior modification -- and unintended consequences. 
 And some contend that revenue has trumped safety.
 ''I disapprove of the privatization of a police function,'' said Mark Kleinschmidt, a city councilman in Chapel Hill, N.C., where a private contractor not only installed the camera system but also carried out the initial screening of potential violations. Last year Mr. Kleinschmidt persuaded a slim majority of his colleagues to end the program after four months. 
 ''I don't think we should bid it out to a corporation; it's strictly a police function,'' he said. ''Then there's this distaste in the minds of many, that the whole concept is a corporate moneymaking scheme.'' 
 For their part, camera-equipped cities and the private companies that contract with them dismiss such claims, saying the cameras have reduced violations. The largest provider in the country, Affiliated Computer Services, has 55 clients in the United States and Canada, including Washington and San Diego. It provides camera systems and in some cases administers the processing of citations. The cameras first made their appearance in Europe and Australia in the 1970's, but came to the United States only in 1993, when, with little fanfare or warning, New York City started installing them.
 According to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, which endorses the camera systems' use, 1,000 people are killed each year in red-light violations. Advocates of the cameras have championed them as effective tools in reducing accidents and deaths, freeing officers to perform other crime-fighting duties, and as an efficient way to raise revenue in the process. 
 When Mayor Anthony A. Williams of Washington acknowledged that twofold aim in 2002 (''The cameras are about safety and revenue,'' he said), his comments outraged AAA, which withdrew its support for the camera program there. About 120 cities in 18 states and the District of Columbia now use the cameras, according to statistics from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, an enthusiastic backer of the cameras that receives all of its financing from insurers. 
 ''We've been able to document clearly that red-light running is a problem,'' said Richard Retting, a senior transportation engineer at the institute and an author of several studies on the subject. The cameras ''are very effective tools for enhancing safety consistently,'' he said, adding: ''Drivers know what to expect. They know if they break a law there'll be a consequence.''
 That consequence is a ticket in the mail. Here is the chain of events before that happens: In most cases, a magnetic coil is embedded in the pavement just before an intersection. When the light turns red, this activates the coil, which helps the system record any vehicle that rolls over the coil, and its speed. A photo is snapped of the license plate, sometimes from both the front and the back (in California the driver's face is photographed), and the company or local officials, or both, review the image, and the ticket is sent out. 
 Officials at Affiliated Computer Services say they are developing laser technology that would be aimed at cars. If effective, it could replace the coil system. A pilot program in several cities will be introduced in the next few months, but officials declined to name the cities.
 Some drivers have escalated the technological arms race by using simple sprays and shields that they believe obscure the license plates when photographed. The sprays, called PhotoBlocker and Photo Fog, cost $20 to $30. The drivers who swear by them claim that they have run red lights and not received tickets. Officials at Affiliated say that studies conducted by the company show the sprays to be ineffective. Nonetheless, many states, like Maryland, now specifically outlaw the use of them.
 The resistance to the cameras is not just at the individual level, however.
 Organizations like the National Motorists Association, a drivers' advocacy group based in Wisconsin, denounce the use of cameras. ''It violates due process,'' said Greg Mauz, a truck driver from Florida and researcher for the association, ''because it assumes you're guilty until proven innocent.'' Roger Hedgecock, a former mayor of San Diego who is now a radio talk show host there, called the cameras an old-fashioned shakedown.
 In a court case that resulted in the dismissal of nearly 300 tickets in 2001, a former employee testified that Lockheed Martin IMS, which operated the San Diego system, regularly scouted intersections in some cities based on high traffic volume, not locations that were most accident-prone. Documents revealed that officials sought locations with steep gradients and short yellow-light times. 
 A California Department of Transportation auditor's report in 2002 concluded that the yellow-light duration at two camera-equipped intersections in San Diego had been shortened, but said this had been a mistake. Thousands of drivers were ticketed, though a handful won dismissals. The city's camera program was suspended in 2001, but has since resumed. 
 Today, officials at Affiliated Computer Services, which purchased Lockheed Martin IMS in August 2001 for $825 million, acknowledge the past troubles in San Diego. ''It was a breakdown in communication with us -- the vendor -- and the department of transportation,'' said Maurice J. Hannigan, a vice president at the company. 
 To reverse some of the ill will, the company says it has restructured its contracts with cities to avoid any perception that it would benefit from maximizing the number of citations. Instead of receiving a share of the fines, Mr. Hannigan said, the company is now typically paid a flat monthly fee. 
 Even when the fines go solely to the public coffers, the tickets can be costly. In Sacramento, the maximum penalty for running a red light is $351. Those numbers add up. Even in Washington, where the fine is $75, the city has collected $28.9 million since installing the cameras in 1999, according to the city's Web site. (In some jurisdictions, violators also have points added to their record, which can increase their insurance rates.)
 Until recently, findings on the effectiveness of cameras have been mixed at best. One of the most-cited studies, performed by Mr. Retting of the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, found that crashes decreased at all intersections in Oxnard, Calif., by 5.4 percent after cameras were installed at some locations. Mr. Retting did not look specifically at intersections with the cameras, arguing that a spillover effect from the camera intersections would affect the data at all intersections.
 Studies elsewhere, however, made a striking finding: rear-end accidents have shot up at intersections with cameras. In 2002 a consultant's study in San Diego reported that the number of crashes at camera intersections had increased by 3 percent after the cameras were installed, almost all of it a result of a 37 percent increase in rear-endings. ''This finding is not consistent with the program's overall objective of improving traffic safety,'' the report's authors concluded.
 But studies to be presented at a transportation conference next week in Washington by two researchers, Forrest M. Council and Bhagwant Persaud, reach a more nuanced conclusion. They found that rear-endings had gone up nearly 15 percent after cameras were installed in seven cities, with injuries from such accidents up 24 percent. Right-angle crashes declined by 24 percent, with injuries down nearly 16 percent. Weighing the economic impact and severity of injuries, they found the overall effect positive.
 Or as Mr. Hannigan of Affiliated put it: ''Would you rather have someone coming at you at 40 miles an hour, going through your window, or rear-ending you at 10?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: RED MEANS STOP, OR ELSE -- Red-light cameras like this one in Charlotte, N.C., have raised questions of safety and motives for their use. (Photo by Nell Redmond for The New York Times)(pg. G1)
AN EYE ON THINGS -- Red-light cameras, including this one at Eastern Parkway and Utica Avenue in Brooklyn, are in use in more than 100 cities in the United States. (Photo by Jonathan Fickies for The New York Times)
CAUGHT -- A sample of a violation notice for running a red light in Montgomery County, Md. The evidence includes a close-up of the car's license plate. (pg. G7)Chart/Diagram: ''Picture Proof''Automated red-light enforcement systems vary in their approach, but they combine two main elements: sensors that detect potential violations, and cameras that substantiate them.1. Sensors in the pavement detect cars crossing the stop line after the signal turns red, prompting a camera to take an initial photo from the rear as the car crosses the line.2. A second photo is taken after the vehicle enters the intersection. In some systems, it is a head-on view shot by a second camera, providing a picture of the driver as well as of the car and license plate.Diagram of cameras and intersection. (Drawing by Frank OConnell/The New York Times)(Sources by City of San Diego
 District of Columbia Metropolitan Police)(pg. G7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LICENSES & PERMITS (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (76%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); VEHICLE LICENSING & REGISTRATION (75%); INTERVIEWS (70%); CITY LIFE (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (64%); CITIES (64%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (60%) Roads and Traffic; Traffic Violations; Automobile Registration and License Plates; Photography; Finances; Privatization; Roads and Traffic

PERSON: Jonathan Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (93%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (90%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005



104 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 499 words

PERSON: Gerard Debreu

HEADLINE: Gerard Debreu, 83; Won Nobel in Economics

BYLINE: By RIVA D. ATLAS

 BODY:
Gerard Debreu, the winner of the 1983 Nobel in economic sciences for his research on the balance of supply and demand, died Friday in Paris. 
 Mr. Debreu, who was 83, died of natural causes, according to a statement released yesterday by the University of California, Berkeley, where he taught for nearly 30 years. His residence was an assisted-living center in Paris, where he moved about a year ago after suffering a stroke, his son-in-law, Richard De Soto, said. 
 Mr. Debreu won the Nobel for his work on a mathematical approach to one of the most basic economic problems: how prices function to balance what producers supply with what buyers want. 
 A slender 100-page book he wrote that was published in 1959, ''Theory of Value: An Axiomatic Analysis of Economic Equilibrium,'' is considered a classic of the field. 
 ''He brought to economics a mathematical rigor that had not been seen before,'' Prof. Robert Anderson said in the university's statement yesterday. 
 In contrast to other winners in economics, Mr. Debreu focused on basic research rather than applications of economic theory.
 ''You would not get much of an economic policy discussion out of him,'' Assar Lindbeck, chairman of the panel that reviewed nominations for the Nobel committee, said when he announced the award to Mr. Debreu 21 years ago. ''He is the kind of teacher who starts in the top left corner of the blackboard, fills it with formulae and reaches the bottom right corner at the end of the class.''
 Mr. Debreu's work had an impact on the work of many other economists, said Kenneth Arrow, professor emeritus of economics at Stanford who collaborated with Mr. Debreu in the 1950's. Economists applied Mr. Debreu's theories to problems like analyzing business cycles and measuring the cost to the economy of inefficiencies like traffic congestion, Mr. Arrow said. 
 Mr. Debreu was born on July 4, 1921, in Calais, France; he became an American citizen in 1975. He received his doctorate from the University of Paris in 1956. He broke off his studies in mathematics in 1944 after D-Day, to enlist in the French Army. He was an officer of the French Legion of Honor and a commander of the French National Order of Merit. 
 From 1950 to 1960, Mr. Debreu was associated with the Cowles Commission for Research in Economics at the University of Chicago; he was later at Yale University, serving as an associate professor. He worked at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford from 1960 to 1961. He joined the faculty at Berkeley in 1962, where he was a professor of economics and mathematics until his retirement in 1991.
 Mr. Debreu continued to lecture at Berkeley and elsewhere after his retirement, Mr. De Soto said.
 Mr. Debreu is survived by his wife, Francoise Debreu of Walnut Creek, Calif.; and two daughters, Chantal De Soto of Aptos, Calif., and Florence Tetrault of Vancouver, British Columbia. A service at the columbarium of Pere-Lachaise Cemetery in Paris will be held tomorrow.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gerard Debreu in 1983. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); AWARDS & PRIZES (91%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); MATHEMATICS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (73%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (71%); WORLD WAR II (65%); STROKES (56%); CITIZENSHIP (51%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (58%)

Riva D Atlas

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%) FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005



105 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; DECORATING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Americans Let Their Taste Trot the Globe

BYLINE: By MITCHELL OWENS

 BODY:
THE dollar is dive-bombing. The euro keeps climbing higher and higher. Terrorist threats, real or imagined, and natural disasters like the tsunami that devastated Southeast Asia becloud even the most innocuous travel itinerary. No wonder many Americans think twice about traveling far from home, fearful of being in the wrong place at the wrong time.
 But if the increasingly multicultural wares on the shelves of home furnishing retailers can be trusted as a gauge of the country's aesthetic evolution, many Americans will be wandering the globe vicariously in the coming year. They will be deploying Moroccan lanterns to light the treads of staircases, dining on Burmese lacquerware and upholstering sofas with Thai silk. You might think of it as the Virtual Grand Tour. Like all movements, this one -- a freewheeling, mixmaster style that speaks of well-worn passports and overweight baggage -- deserves a rallying cry. Why not ''Think local, decorate global''? 
 Since the dawn of the Republic, Americans have looked abroad for style guidance. France and England have been the most fertile grounds, resulting in looks that emulate everything from humble country cottages to grand country manors.
 The map of design preferences, however, is becoming increasingly inclusive and surprisingly intrepid. Recent free-trade agreements with Vietnam and Morocco have helped, and so has the African Growth and Opportunity Act, which erased tariffs on products from more than 30 African countries. So has the vibrant international bazaar that is the Internet. All it takes is the click of a mouse to put far-away products within arm's reach.
 Every economic level is reaping the benefits, too: ethnic accents are not just for the bicoastal trust-fund set anymore. How else to explain Wal-Mart's latest foray into home design, Zarela Casa, a Mexican-theme collection of towels, sheets and tableware? The collection, which made its debut last month, was developed by the celebrity chef Zarela Martinez, the owner of Zarela, the Mexican restaurant in Midtown Manhattan, and the author of popular cookbooks. Zarela Casa's buoyantly colorful offerings include $2 plastic place mats inspired by papel picado, the lacy paper cutouts made for Mexican fiestas.
 Even National Geographic magazine is getting into the act. The National Geographic Home Collection, created by a consortium of about 28 American home furnishings makers and begun last year, comprises hundreds of products that reinterpret Dutch colonial furniture of 18th-century Java as well as the kente cloth of modern Ghana. (It is design with a cause attached, too. Proceeds from the sales support the National Geographic Society's World Cultures Fund and the fund's archaeological and anthropological studies.)
 ''The easy thing would be to say that people are being exposed to more things and are paying attention,'' said Ann Maine, the editor in chief of Traditional Home, a magazine whose name belies its increasing breadth. Its April 2005 issue, for example, will publish an article about Ethiopian antiques, inspired by the African accents that show up in modern interiors by the New York designer Vicente Wolf. ''But I think people are also tired of everything being safe, of everything being the same. They want to experiment. They're ready.''
 Perhaps this new direction has something to do with the saturation level achieved by Pottery Barn and Crate & Barrel. Clean-lined mass-market modernism is unarguably a good thing, but who would not like a bit of ethnic pizazz to liven up all that white cotton and fake ebony? In New York, for instance, the most intriguing store openings of the last few months have been shops with a global embrace, offering Chinese furniture, Vietnamese ceramics and Senegalese bed linens. Designers are doing their part, too, traveling the globe for designs and materials they can interpret in new ways back home. 
 Pamela Advento, an architect and designer who lives in Garrison, N.Y., has initiated a collection of custom-made rugs made by hand in her native Philippines from woven leaves of the abaca tree, a relative of the banana. Their natural white, cream, brown and ebony color combinations and graphic geometric patterns -- some are traditional weaves, while others are designs by Ms. Advento -- recall the work of Billy Baldwin, the Baltimore-born designer who popularized a still-revered school of clean-cut no-fuss American luxury in the 1960's. The rugs, available at Le Decor Francais, a shop on the Upper East Side, have caught the eye of Deeda Blair, the Washington socialite, a one-time Baldwin client. She was spotted a few weeks ago toting a sample to test-drive in her Manhattan apartment. 
 Another New York designer who has found that distance equals creative enchantment is Paul Mathieu, the French-born designer. The poetic modernism he practiced with his partner, Michael Ray, in the 1980's was a well-publicized antidote to the decade's equally influential cataract of chintz and a frequent presence in the pages of Metropolitan Home. 
 Today Mr. Mathieu, the design director of the Stephanie Odegard Collection, a trade showroom at the D&D Building in Manhattan, finds inspiration in India, where he maintains a pocket-size house and works with local artisans. He has introduced Jali, an occasional table made of white marble in India and available in oval, square and round shapes. Its open fretwork pattern gives it the appearance of petrified lace or of an overturned basket, depending on your point of view.
 On the Lower East Side, Kim Koenig-Ouassil runs Sheherezade, a shop whose Moroccan ceramic tagines and tribal carpets have been attracting the new bohemian crowd. (Its devotees include the actress Kate Hudson.)
 Like Ms. Advento and Mr. Mathieu, Ms. Koenig-Ouassil, a former stylist who worked for Martha Stewart Living and Takashimaya, takes a fresh approach to traditional crafts, instead of simply shipping over a container of far-flung oddments and slapping price tags on them. Among her recent innovations are large rectangular ottomans -- available ready made or by order -- fashioned of colorful nubuck leather, which she buys in the coastal city Casablanca and then has hand-sewn nearly 200 miles south in Marrakesh, the hometown of her husband, Rachid Ouassil.
 Unlike typical Moroccan ottomans, which can be drearily unornamented or stultifyingly ornate, those of Ms. Koenig-Ouassil have rock-star flair. They flaunt eye-popping patchwork patterns and reckless color combinations (orange, lime, shocking pink, purple), sparked by the designer's admiration for Etro, the Italian fashion company famous for its high-decibel paisleys. 
 ''People are looking for more exoticism,'' agreed Warren Shoulberg, the editor in chief of HFN, a weekly magazine that tracks the home furnishings trade. But he added a caveat. A folding lacquer screen can be an evocative accent, but very few people are willing to turn their living room into an outtake from ''Indochine.'' ''Some of the licensees of the National Geographic Home Collection discovered that the wilder products generally didn't sell very well,'' he added. ''So they've toned the designs down.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ETHNIC ACCENTS -- A line of accessories with a Mexican flavor by Zarela Martinez the restaurateur and cookbook author, for the bath, left, and table, below, were introduced last month by Wal-Mart.
 LONG-DISTANCE DESIGN -- Pamela Advento, above, has her abaca-leaf rugs, left, hand-woven in the Philippines. (Photographs by Lars Klove for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TERRORISM (78%); TSUNAMIS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (76%); RESTAURANTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); HOUSEWARES & FURNISHINGS MFG (71%); GEOGRAPHY (71%); RETAILERS (71%); FABRICS (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); CELEBRITIES (66%); WRITERS (66%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (63%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (62%); ARCHAEOLOGY (60%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%) Home Furnishings

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (53%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (53%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (53%)

PERSON: Mitchell Owens

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); AFRICA (79%); GHANA (74%); MOROCCO (72%); PHILIPPINES (58%); ENGLAND (58%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005



106 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; THE CONFLICT IN IRAQ: REFUGEES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: Residents Trickle Back, but Falluja Still Seems Dead

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

DATELINE: FALLUJA, Iraq, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
Residents trickling back to Falluja, the city they fled in November before the biggest battle of the Iraq war, enter a desolate world of skeletal buildings, tank-blasted homes, weeping power lines and severed palm trees. 
 Sullen and anxious, tens of thousands of residents have passed through stringent checkpoints over the last week to find out, after agonizing weeks of uncertainty, whether their homes and shops were reduced to rubble or merely ransacked.
 Even if their houses are still standing, they are pondering whether a family can resume any decent life in a place devoid of electricity, running water, schools or commerce, in a debris-strewn city with a strict 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. curfew, conspicuously occupied by American marines and Iraqi troops who still have daily firefights with guerrillas. 
 So far, only the hardiest and the luckiest are choosing to stay. Most leave in the afternoon, saying they will wait until repairs, now started in earnest by the Americans and the Iraqi government, are further along. 
 Some, returning to scenes of complete devastation, are in despair. 
 ''We found that our house was destroyed along with all our belongings,'' said Rasmiyah Abbood, a 55-year-old widow who now lives on handouts in a primary school just outside the city. ''My son who supported me is a car mechanic and he lost his garage.'' 
 ''I'm homeless and I only hope God will give us patience to endure,'' she said, quivering, though whether out of rage or resignation was hard to tell. 
 Amer Muhammad, 23, who was collecting free bottled water, meal packs and yellow floral bed sheets at an aid center the marines have set up in Falluja, is somewhat more optimistic about starting over. 
 The family house, he had just discovered, is still standing. But the windows were blown out and the furniture was wrecked, apparently as troops searched for weapons, as they did in virtually every house in the city, marking each cleared building with a big red X. 
 ''Even with no schools or electricity, our own house will be better than the tents where we live now, drinking dirty water,'' he said. 
 Mr. Muhammad said that he would take his wheelbarrow's worth of rations back to the refugee camp for the night but that his extended family, including 13 children, would move into the city within days. 
 Life here will be daunting for months at least, American reconstruction officials say. A half-day tour, escorted by a convoy of marines who said it was too dangerous to join families entering their homes, leaves the impression that the city cannot return to anything like normal for years, at best. 
 Falluja, a conservative Sunni city just west of Baghdad that once had 250,000 residents, had served as the headquarters of the Iraqi insurgency and of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, Al Qaeda's point man in Iraq. After an abortive invasion in April, following the killing of four American contractors, American military officials vowed they would pull no punches in a second assault. 
 Their determination is recorded in every block of this sprawling, low-slung city, a visible record of savage, house-by-house warfare. 
 In the commercial district of Andalus, a green silk wedding dress stands elegant on its mannequin behind a cracked shop window. Stores on either side are in ruins. 
 Falluja does not have the carpet-bombed look of 1945 Berlin, but a more sinister feeling of close combat. Though the occasional house was flattened by big precision bombs from the air, more common are the three-foot holes in the walls of many homes and shops, punched by tank shells fired by troops who knew that civilians had long since fled but who were taking no chances as they fought through guerrilla-infested streets. 
 Marines, Navy construction engineers and Iraqi ministries are working to restore water, power and sewage disposal. But progress will be far slower than originally envisioned by American officials and recently claimed by Iraqi authorities, who have said the city would be resettled in time for the national elections on Jan. 30. 
 The first task after the fighting ended was to clear human remains from the debris. The marines found more than 400 bodies and laid them temporarily in a local potato factory. Eventually they buried them in mass graves, with their heads toward Mecca and an imam's prayer. 
 The marines say most of the bodies they found, often without identification papers, were those of insurgents. A few residents this week found the decaying remains of relatives who had stayed during the fighting. (Altogether, American officers estimate, perhaps 5,000 residents remained in the city and are still scrounging a living there.) 
 The main streets are cleared of debris but the bulldozing, let alone reconstruction, has scarcely begun for thousands of buildings and homes. A priority has been fixing the pumps that prevent chronic flooding in this low-lying river city.
 The main domestic water lines will be fixed within weeks, though broken pipes to houses must be fixed one by one, said Lt. Col. Scott Ballard of the Marines. For now, residents must take containers to plastic water tanks at 15 locations and carry what they can back home. 
 Electricity may take a few months, Colonel Ballard said. 
 ''For some time we expect most of the people will continue to stay outside the city,'' he said. 
 In an aged amusement park in the Jolan district, near the center of Falluja, the marines have established one of several aid centers. Against the incongruous backdrop of an idle Ferris wheel and a lime-green octopus ride, residents, most of them in just for the day, line up for food, water and bed sheets. Marines hand candy and toys to the children. 
 The intent is friendly but security concerns are overriding: the people have to file through huge coils of razor wire and a gantlet of armed marines to pick up their supplies. 
 On the road out front, Lt. Col. Patrick Malay, who is running military operations in the northern half of Baghdad and led fierce combat through this neighborhood, watched the scene with satisfaction. ''This is how I like it, just like Disneyland,'' he said. ''Orderly lines and people leave with a smile on their face.'' 
 His units killed hundreds of insurgents sweeping through this area but also lost several men, he said. ''I'm proud of these marines,'' he said, pointing to the aid station. ''To see them turn off the kill switch and help people is a great thing.''
 Colonel Malay said the extensive destruction was unavoidable because insurgents were holed up in building after building, and some structures were booby-trapped, making it prudent to fire shells before entering. ''There was no way to go into these compounds without getting killed, so we went in from multiple angles,'' he said. ''That means breaching and demolition.'' 
 At five checkpoints around Falluja, residents who want to enter town show proof of their former residence and are often questioned by Iraqi guards before an exhaustive search for weapons. A few men who are judged suspicious are photographed and fingerprinted. 
 Some people have gone in and out several times now and some, like Sayeed Jumaily, 36, are preparing to take in their families. 
 Mr. Jumaily has been staying with relatives in Baghdad but this week found that his house was largely intact, though the furniture was destroyed and to his deep shame, he said in an embarrassed whisper, rummaging troops had scattered his wife's underwear in the open. 
 Of 200 houses in his immediate neighborhood in Andalus, he said, about five have been reoccupied. One-third were destroyed and another third were mysteriously burned, he said. 
 He has bought a small generator to provide lighting and is resigned to the harsh conditions ahead, he said, but, ''It's my house and I can't feel content unless I'm living in my house.'' 
 During the fighting in November, Mr. Jumaily said, some residents blamed the insurgents for their woes because they refused to seek a peaceful solution. But recently, he said, as they see the scale of the destruction in the city, many refugees are shifting more blame to the Americans again. 
 People find a burned house and think that the Americans must have done it on purpose, he said. They do not understand, he said, why America cannot fix all the damage now.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 7, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about conditions in the Iraqi city of Falluja since American forces drove out insurgents in November misidentified the region where military operations are led by Lt. Col. Patrick Malay, whose marines now operate civilian aid centers there. It is the northern half of Falluja, not Baghdad. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Jolan Park, an aid center in Falluja, returning residents line up for food, water and blankets under guard by American marines. The city was largely destroyed when the marines drove out insurgents in November.
 Security is still very tight in Falluja, with occasional firefights with entrenched insurgents. Marines search even small boys at checkpoints before allowing residents to return to salvage their homes and possessions. (Photographs by Jason P. Howe/World Picture News, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); REFUGEES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); BOTTLED WATER (77%); POWER FAILURES (77%); CHILDREN (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); CURFEW (69%); TRENDS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Curfews; Electric Light and Power; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Water; Education and Schools; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: Erik Eckholm

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Falluja (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005



107 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Malpractice Costs Up 150% Since 1999, Hospitals Say

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
The cost of medical malpractice insurance in New York City, Westchester County and on Long Island has risen by nearly 150 percent since 1999, creating severe financial strains that have limited patients' access to such specialties as obstetrics and gynecology and made New York a ''crisis state'' for doctors, according to a report released yesterday by a hospital trade group.
 The trade group, the Greater New York Hospital Association, which represents medical institutions in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Rhode Island, said its analysis had focused on 34 hospitals in and around New York City. On average, it said, the hospitals have been billed for malpractice premium increases of 27 percent a year for five years. 
 ''The increasing cost of malpractice insurance has become a pressing burden for New York's financially fragile hospitals,'' said Kenneth E. Raske, the association's president.
 The association said it would use its analysis to lobby in Albany and try to bring about changes. While it did not offer specific proposals, it pointed to measures taken by other states, including limits on money damages for pain and suffering in malpractice lawsuits and on lawyers' fees.
 The report appeared to contain few surprises for economists and insurance industry executives, who said malpractice insurance had been a losing business for years. 
 ''To be fair, the medical profession has to pay closer attention to some of its own,'' said Robert P. Hartwig, chief economist for the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York. ''There are good doctors and there are bad doctors.''
 But Mr. Hartwig added that the spiraling costs were unlikely to be contained without government-imposed limits on jury awards. 
 The study found that the increases in the New York area far exceeded those across the nation. The association said its hospitals' premiums were up 51 percent in 2004 after rising 23 percent in 2003. Premiums rose 16 percent in 2004 and 8 percent in 2003 for hospitals across the nation, according to estimates by Medicare.
 The reasons for the steep rise in New York are complex, the study said, including structural changes in the insurance industry and the impact of ''mega awards'' on what plaintiffs and their lawyers have learned to expect in malpractice suits.
 Since 2000, the number of insurers providing malpractice insurance to New York area hospitals has fallen to four from six, the association said. It said the New York insurers, compared with those in other states, had had some of the worst financial results, paying out $1.44 in claims for each dollar collected in premiums.
 And it said many of the nation's largest malpractice awards, some exceeding $90 million, had occurred in New York City. Although such awards are routinely reduced before the cases are settled, the study listed huge settlements reached in recent years, including one for $50.1 million in Manhattan in 2002 and another for $10.6 million in Brooklyn in 2000.
 Both those cases involved children who suffered brain damage while under hospital care. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (92%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (91%); LOBBYING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); DAMAGES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (89%); MEDICARE (78%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); JURY TRIALS (71%); VERDICTS (71%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (71%); LAWYERS (71%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (58%) Medicine and Health; Hospitals; Insurance; Malpractice; Suits and Litigation; Medicine and Health; Lobbying and Lobbyists

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (54%) Greater New York Hospital Assn

PERSON: Thomas J Lueck

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; Westchester County (NY); Long Island (NY); New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005



108 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: A Mexican Manual for Illegal Migrants Upsets Some in U.S.

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
The Mexican government drew fire from American advocates of tighter borders on Wednesday for publishing a pamphlet that instructs migrants how to safely enter the United States illegally and live there without being detected. 
 Officials here say the small booklet, illustrated in comic-book style, is not intended to encourage illegal immigration, but to reduce the loss of life. Last year, more than 300 migrants died while crossing rivers and deserts to reach the United States. 
 The guidebook also advises would-be migrants to avoid hiring professional immigrant-smugglers and to refuse to carry packages for others. It also instructs people never to lie to border officials, carry false documents or resist arrest.
 But groups favoring stricter immigration controls said the pamphlet amounted to a how-to manual for illegal immigrants. The booklet gives advice on what clothes to wear when fording a river and how to cross a desert without getting dehydrated. 
 It also counsels migrants to keep a low profile once in the United States, telling them, for instance, to stay away from loud parties or discos that might be raided by the police and to stay out of domestic disputes, which might lead to an arrest. Finally, it lists what rights migrants have if caught, among them safe transport home, medical care, food and water.
 ''This is not the action of a friendly neighbor,'' said Representative Tom Tancredo, the Colorado Republican who chairs the Congressional Immigration Reform Caucus. ''What would the Mexican government say if we encouraged our citizens to violate Mexican law?''
 Mexico's Foreign Ministry, however, said its intent in publishing the ''Guide for the Mexican Migrant'' was to warn migrants of the dangers they might face if they choose to slip illegally into the United States.
 Geronimo Gutierrez, Mexico's under secretary for North American affairs, said the guide was written to dissuade people from making a clandestine journey or at least to warn them of the perils and legal risks should they decide to go. About 1.5 million copies of the guide were printed and distributed throughout the country in December.
 ''Just last year over 300 Mexicans died in their attempt to enter the United States, the vast majority if not all of them in search of a job,'' Mr. Gutierrez said. ''The Mexican government obviously has an obligation to take all actions possible in order to avoid the loss of life.''
 He added, ''It is a natural and fair response to consider this as an attempt to promote undocumented immigration, but that is absolutely not the intent of the Mexican government.''
 But groups seeking stricter immigration laws argued that Mexican officials were being disingenuous in asserting that the pamphlet does not encourage illegal migration. They say that Mexico wants to continue exporting unemployed people and reaping the benefits of money sent home to their families. 
 ''If the Mexican government were really very concerned about their citizens dying in the desert, why doesn't it use its army and police to prevent people from crossing in those areas?'' said Steven Camarota, director of research at the Center for Immigration Studies, which favors tighter borders. 
 Others said the pamphlet only highlighted the need to revamp the American immigration system, which seems to have no effective response to the yearly flood of Mexican migrants seeking jobs. ''The publication is nothing more than another symptom of a broken immigration system,'' said Paul L. Zulkie, president of American Immigration Lawyers Association. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); REFUGEES (78%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Aliens

PERSON: THOMAS G TANCREDO (56%) James C Jr Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) COLORADO, USA (79%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005



109 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: A Town in Westchester Ends Health Benefits for Domestic Partners

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
Four years ago, Eastchester became one of the first communities in Westchester County to offer health benefits to the domestic partners of its employees. Critics charged that the town supervisor had rammed the plan through and voted him out of office. Now Eastchester has become the first town in New York to end the benefits.
 At a meeting Tuesday night, the Town Board voted 3 to 2 to approve new union contracts and to end a town policy of providing coverage for domestic partners. The town's Civil Service Employees Association and police union agreed to dropping the coverage, saying their members had more pressing concerns. The two employees who have made use of the benefits will be allowed to continue to do so, but new employees will not be eligible. 
 Town officials say they took the action to save money, but when the issue arose four years ago, one local group condemned the idea of domestic partner benefits as an effort by gay activists to promote same-sex marriage. Gay rights groups said yesterday that the town's decision was a dangerous step backward that could eat away at policies that have become common in government and the private sector. 
 ''The town is out of step with what has become an established trend,'' said Ross Levi, director of public policy and government affairs for Empire State Pride Agenda, a gay rights group. ''One set of families is going to get protection, and another set is going to be left out in the cold.''
 Eleven states, including New York, provide domestic partner benefits for public employees. So do New York City and 128 counties around the country, including Westchester, Suffolk, Nassau and Albany counties, according to the A.F.L.-C.I.O. 
 The Eastchester decision in late 2000 to extend domestic partner benefits to town employees became an issue in the 2003 supervisor campaign, when the current supervisor, Anthony Colavita, ran against James Cavanaugh, the incumbent, in the Republican primary. Mr. Cavanaugh had successfully pushed for the domestic partner benefits three years earlier and ended up facing serious opposition from voters in his own party.
 ''This is a real victory,'' Raymond W. Belair, a lawyer with Family First, a local group that opposed the policy, said yesterday. 
 In 2002, the group filed a lawsuit against the town, which it now plans to drop, and collected more than 1,100 signatures on a petition opposing the policy. After Mr. Colavita said he was willing to end the policy, the group endorsed his candidacy, and he narrowly won the 2003 primary.
 ''This was always about the gay lobby chipping away to get to marriage,'' Mr. Belair said. ''And right now there is nothing more important than preserving marriage.''
 Mr. Belair said that he had been unaware of the contract negotiations that led to the board's action until earlier this week, but that he called Mr. Colavita yesterday to congratulate him.
 Union officials said yesterday that there was not enough interest among its members to fight to keep the benefit, which covers 163 employees -- 114 city workers and 49 police officers -- in a town of 31,000 people.
 ''There are things that the members need, and this was not something that was being used by a large number of them,'' said Gary Conley, president of C.S.E.A. Local 860, which covers Westchester County. ''It was not something that was particularly needed, and you have to decide what you are going to fight for. Not enough people thought this was worth it.''
 Mr. Colavita said that dropping the benefit was a financial matter. The two employees who receive the benefits cost the town $15,000 to $20,000 annually, he said.
 ''That is a significant sum of money,'' Mr. Colavita said. ''People wanted to make this a moral and gross social issue, but the employees who it affects supported it entirely. No town employee is being excluded from benefits.''
 Mr. Levi, of Empire State Pride Agenda, disputed Mr. Colavita's economic argument. ''To say that that this is purely a fiscal issue is totally dishonest,'' Mr. Levi said. ''This is not saving the town one penny. It is just bad public policy.''
 Councilwoman Vicki Ford voted in favor of the domestic partnership policy four years ago and was one of two members who voted against repealing it, calling the action a step backward. ''This should not be about local politics,'' she said. ''This should be about respecting the individual who is doing work for the company or municipality.''
 Current employees have 60 days to apply for the benefits before the rule takes effect. By ensuring that members who used the benefit would continue to receive it, the union fulfilled its responsibility, said Jeff Meyer, the president of the police union.
 But Josh Cazares, a co-president of A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s Pride at Work gay and lesbian group, said the decision by the two unions not to press the town for the benefits was surprising. ''We want to make sure that we have fairness and equality everywhere, so that anyone who wants these rights can get them,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (91%); GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); LGBT RIGHTS (90%); COHABITATION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); MARRIAGE (87%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); FAMILY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TRENDS (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); CITIES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); LITIGATION (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); PETITIONS (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%) Medicine and Health; Homosexuality; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Government Employees; Government Employees; Government Employees; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION (57%)

PERSON: Jennifer Medina

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Eastchester (NY); New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005



110 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Proposes Making Taxes 'Fairer, Simpler'

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki took some pages from the national Republican playbook in his 11th annual State of the State address to the Legislature on Wednesday, speaking of the need to simplify the state's tax code, to keep cutting taxes and to remain vigilant against the threats of crime and international terrorism.
 In a 69-minute speech received with sparse applause, Mr. Pataki, a three-term Republican governor, seemed to place himself in line with the Bush White House on a number of policies. And while he praised his own accomplishments in the past, he made it clear that he was mindful of how his record would look in the future. 
 ''Over the past decade, we have improved New Yorkers' lives time and time again by embracing bold reforms and sweeping change,'' said Mr. Pataki, adding repeatedly that he had more left to do.
 The speech left both Mr. Pataki's political allies and adversaries wanting more. Many who heard it said it was more notable for what was omitted than what was said.
 For instance, in speaking of taxes, Mr. Pataki called for state officials to make New York's tax code ''fairer, simpler and friendlier for everyone,'' but he provided no details or guidance for how it should be done. 
 He did announce that he had asked a former member of the Bush-Cheney transition team and television economic commentator, Lawrence Kudlow, to lead the effort. As he spoke, Mr. Kudlow was standing in a pinstriped suit in the balcony above him. 
 Mr. Pataki also invoked the need for some tax cuts, calling for a speedier end to a temporary income tax surcharge on taxpayers with high incomes. He did not place a dollar figure on the amount of revenue that would be lost to such cuts. He did not even mention the state's projected $6 billion budget deficit for the fiscal year that begins April 1, or the $7.7 billion gap for the following year.
 ''Ten years ago, in his first such address, he made a point of calling the then $5 billion deficit a crisis,'' said Edmund J. McMahon, a fiscal analyst with the Manhattan Institute, a conservative policy group. ''This gap is just about as bad as that one; this year he did not mention the budget problem, though the speech was two-thirds longer this time.''
 Only toward the end of his speech did Mr. Pataki acknowledge, tacitly, that New York's government was broken, with its chronic legislative gridlock and other problems.
 On that topic, he proposed seven changes, including two that he has worked to torpedo before: reforming the budget process and tackling the question of lobbying for state contracts. Another change, banning political gifts from lobbyists, was endorsed two months ago by Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, a Democrat, before he announced that he would be a candidate for governor in 2006. 
 Mr. Pataki said the changes he was offering would ''shatter the status quo, strengthen public confidence and change Albany for generations to come.'' 
 The fact that Mr. Pataki spoke of such governmental overhauls for the first time in such a forum, and for so long, was encouraging to many in the audience.
 ''It's clear the governor heard the public outcry that Albany has to be fixed,'' said Blair Horner, the legislative director with the New York Public Interest Research Group, who has watched each of Mr. Pataki's annual addresses since he took office in 1995. ''The question is, is he serious about changing the way Albany operates?''
 Among the critics, some said Mr. Pataki was part of the problem, and they pointed out that when he came into office, in 1995, he vowed reforms that never materialized. 
 Perhaps the most notable moment came when he called for timely budgets, since the last 20 have missed the April 1 deadline. There was a cheer, and many in the chamber stood and clapped. More than a few senators in the front row, seeing that Sheldon Silver, the Democratic speaker of the Assembly, was slow in rising, yelled for him to stand, and eventually he did, turning toward Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican majority leader.
 Afterward, Mr. Silver said the speech was a rehash of old ideas.
 He said it did not raise many of the major issues facing the state -- a court order to pump millions of dollars into New York City schools, a federal requirement to overhaul the state's election system, multibillion-dollar transportation needs -- never mind what plans are needed to face them. ''It sounded like the governor is running, but I'm not sure for what,'' Mr. Silver said. 
 Mr. Bruno said the governor had ''delivered a bold, positive and hopeful message for the people of New York State.'' 
 Mr. Silver was studiously noncommittal on the governor's call for a ban on gifts from lobbyists, but Mr. Bruno welcomed all Mr. Pataki's calls for reforms.
 Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi praised the governor for proposing more changes of the state's public authorities, which have been criticized recently for the large amount of debt they create and the secrecy they operate under. One of Mr. Pataki's proposals calls for eliminating some of the state's roughly 700 authorities and boards and combining others. 
 Specifically, on reform, the governor called for a ban on hiring lobbyists to influence government contracts, which is now allowed and not regulated, and a ban on all gifts from lobbyists, who now face a $75 limit when giving to lawmakers.
 He outlined a plan to track down the state's 100 most dangerous felons by posting their mug shots on a public Internet site. He said he would submit legislation to fight agricultural and cyber terrorism, vowing to strengthen the state's security strategy. 
 He sprinkled the speech with tidbits for many constituencies. He announced more technology jobs moving to the Hudson Valley, 20 new bird conservation areas, an upstate revitalization plan, and restoration of the Nepperhan River in Yonkers. He also called for a special checkoff on state income tax forms to make it easier for people to make donations to build a memorial at the World Trade Center site.
 In the end, the governor invoked the patriotic spirit in New York since Sept. 11, saying that optimism was on the rise with the rebuilding in Lower Manhattan.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George E. Pataki delivering his 11th State of the State address to a joint session of the Legislature. ''We have improved New Yorkers' lives time and time again,'' he declared. (Photo by Stewart Cairns for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LOBBYING (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); TERRORISM (71%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (63%); BUDGET FORECASTS (62%) State of the State Message (NYS); Taxation; Terrorism; Crime and Criminals

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (59%) Al Baker; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005



111 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: Market Place; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Newcomers to energy-related investments could make this year's price swings as wild as last year's.

BYLINE: By Heather Timmons

DATELINE: London 

 BODY:
THE jarring swings in oil prices that gave investors and traders whiplash in 2004 are not preventing new investors from rushing into oil and other energy-related commodities this year.
 These investors are attracted by the promise of better returns than those offered by bonds and equities, bankers and traders say. Ultimately, the rising number of speculators could lead to even more price volatility in 2005 as they push the highs higher and the lows lower. 
 Speculation on oil prices is not limited to hedge funds, which were popular scapegoats for high oil prices last year. Some of the largest pension funds, insurance companies and endowments are moving more and more money into commodity indexes, which are heavily weighted in oil and gas futures. Wealthy private investors are also snapping up new oil price-related products. 
 ''After a generation in the wilderness,'' the oil futures that are used to make a bet on oil prices ''have become a bona fide investment,'' said Charles O'Donnell, who manages Lake Asset Management, a small energy fund based in London. 
 In November 2004, 64.4 million futures and options contracts for light crude oil, the industry standard, were traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the biggest oil futures market. That was an increase of 15.6 percent from 55.7 million in the month a year earlier.
 On the International Petroleum Exchange in London, the second-biggest market, 3.098 million contracts were traded in November, the latest month from which figures were available, which was up 20 percent compared with the month a year earlier. 
 Oil futures make up 40 percent of the Goldman Sachs Commodities Index, which attracted about $30 billion in investment by the end of 2004, about double the amount at the end of 2003 and up from $3 billion in 1998. Investors put an additional $10 billion into other commodities indexes by the end of 2004, according to Goldman. 
 Commodity specialists say they do not expect these increases to disappear. David Kitson, head of global energy at J.P. Morgan in London, said investment in the commodity markets by pension funds and hedge funds would continue to rise in 2005, based on the level of interest expressed by clients. ''There are more investors coming in,'' he said. 
 In the past, commodities like crude oil and metals were often shunned by general long-term investors because they can vacillate as much as 100 percent in a year as economies rise and plummet and the ratio of supply to demand shifts rapidly around the globe. For example, crude oil prices peaked at a closing price of $55.17 a barrel in New York in 2004, up about 70 percent from the low of $32.48 a barrel for the year. This week, crude oil fell 3 percent on Monday and rose more than 4 percent on Tuesday before settling at $43.39 a barrel yesterday, down 1.2 percent. 
 But there is a growing belief that economic expansion in countries like India and China and delivery bottlenecks caused by a lack of investment in tankers, pipelines and refineries will ensure that prices of oil and oil-related products will not plummet. 
 That belief, though, has a dangerous downside if it turns out to be wrong. ''The real question is, 'Will incremental demand from China, India and other places cause sustained higher commodity prices or is this just a cyclical upswing?''' said Michael Parker, fund manager for Mirador Diversified Fund in New York. 
 If it is cyclical, then many commodities and the companies that make them are ''massively overvalued'' and will go into freefall as new and old investors pull out, Mr. Parker said.
 Clients responsible for increasing commodities index numbers are what bankers like to call the ''real money'' -- the pension funds, endowments and insurance companies that are seeking to diversify their multibillion-dollar funds. After 2000, there was a significant shift in sentiment regarding the equity markets, said Heather Shemilt, managing director of commodity marketing at Goldman Sachs. Investors seeking double-digit returns looked elsewhere. 
 For example, at the end of November 2004, Pimco, the asset management company, had $6.3 billion invested in its Commodity Real Return Strategy Fund, up from $300 million at the end of 2002. 
 Hedge funds leaped into oil futures in 2004 and emerged with mixed results, said Mr. Kitson of J.P. Morgan. Still, many were shrewd enough to sell their futures contracts short, making a bet that prices would fall, just as prices peaked in late October, and even helped to exacerbate the price drop since then. Few hedge funds have lost enough money to get out of the market altogether, and most have committed resources and employees to the market, Mr. Kitson said. 
 Meanwhile, many hedge funds that specialize in deal arbitrage -- profiting from the stock price movement of companies involved in mergers -- have been disappointed with spreads in 2004. Volatile oil markets are an attractive alternative, said one arbitrage hedge fund manager in London. 
 The heightened attention to oil is spawning a range of new financial products, aimed at investors who would like to participate in the market but who cannot or do not want to trade oil futures. Some have introduced bonds that are backed by crude oil contracts, for example. 
 In 2004, J.P. Morgan created a product called Brent buffers for wealthy Europeans that allows investors to reap the upside in North Sea oil prices over three years but not suffer from the downside -- unless the price of Brent crude oil drops by 40 percent. 
 ''Equity investors choose to use these structured products because they provide more downside protection than direct futures contracts,'' said Tim Owens, head of J.P. Morgan's global currency and commodities solutions group in Europe. J.P. Morgan has sold numerous different variations of these products over the last, and they have proved to be ''very popular'' with investors, Mr. Owens said. 
 Banks without commodities trading desks, like the Credit Suisse Group, are hiring traders and specialists and plan to offer oil and commodity-related trading this year. 
 This increased investment in oil is going to lead to very choppy oil prices, some bankers predict. Oil price drops and spikes of $2 or more in a single day were once considered a rarity but occurred several times in 2004, as nervous traders darted in and out of the markets. ''People are all piled in, and one day they all want to get out the same small door,'' Mr. Kitson said. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders in the oil trading pit at the New York Merchantile Exchange. Oil futures make up 40 percent of the Goldman Sachs Commodities Index. (Photo by Ramin Talaie/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUTURES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (75%); BONDS (73%); INSURANCE (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Two Thousand Five (Year); Two Thousand Four (Year); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Futures and Options Trading

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005



112 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: A Harvest at Peril

BYLINE: By TODD BENSON

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
After almost a decade of rising prices and record profits, soybean farmers in Brazil, the world's second-largest soybean producer and exporter, are now bracing for tougher times.
 One reason is the tumble in soybean prices, down nearly 30 percent since March, when they hit their highest level in more than 15 years. The fall came largely because of China's decision to cut back on imports and because of a bumper crop in the United States, the world's No.1 producer and exporter.
 But another big factor is Asian soy rust, a deadly crop fungus that has been ravaging plantations here since it made its way to South America three years ago. The emergence of the disease, which can destroy up to 80 percent of a crop if left untreated, has significantly raised production costs for farmers at a time when profit margins are already narrowing because of the price drop. 
 As a result, the rapid growth of Brazil's soy industry, which accounts for nearly half of the country's farm exports, is starting to slow, making it unlikely that it will overtake the United States in soybean production as early as next season (2005-6), as some analysts had predicted.
 ''The days of euphoria are ending,'' said Ademir Henning, a plant pathologist who specializes in soybeans at the Londrina office of the Brazilian Enterprise for Agricultural and Livestock Research, a government agency known as Embrapa. ''The margin for error is now shrinking,'' he added. ''If producers don't spend what it takes to improve crop management and combat soy rust, they're going to lose a good portion of their crops and end up going broke.''
 Soy rust was first detected in Japan in the early 1900's. It is spread by the wind and thrives in warm, moist climates, making the tropical savannas of central Brazil -- the heartland of the country's soy belt -- especially vulnerable. Once the fungus takes hold, it causes plants to lose their leaves, inhibiting the development of the bean pod and reducing yields.
 Since it was detected in Brazil in 2001, Asian soy rust has spread to almost 80 percent of the country's soy-growing regions. It has also infected crops in Argentina, the world's third-largest soybean producer and exporter, and has affected Bolivia and Paraguay as well. In November, it was detected for the first time in the United States mainland, though the United States Agriculture Department said the disease -- thought to have been brought north by hurricanes -- has not yet had any economic impact. Still, the agency said it was monitoring the situation closely.
 Last season, when heavy rainfall in parts of Brazil made it difficult to control soy rust, the country's soybean output fell for the first time in five years, to 49.8 million metric tons, from 52 million the previous harvest. Over all, the fungus destroyed 4.5 million tons of soybeans that season, which ended in September, costing farmers $2 billion.
 To keep the disease in check, farmers must spray fungicides on the crop two to three times, and that can raise production costs by as much as 15 percent, according to the National Agriculture Confederation, a farm lobby in Brazil. When prices were at their peak last March, with buyers paying as much as $20 for a 60-kilogram (132-pound) bag of soybeans in the domestic market, most growers could afford the fungicides and still turn a heady profit. Now, with prices hovering at around $12.50 a bag here, many farmers are worried about breaking even.
 ''We've gone from a situation in which we were certain to make a big profit to one in which making a profit at all is no longer a given,'' said Paulo Freitas, who grows soybeans on some 37,000 acres in Mato Grosso, Brazil's biggest soy-producing state.
 ''This is the first very bad year that I'm going to have since I started planting soy'' nine years ago, added Mr. Freitas, who lost 30 percent of his harvest last season to rust.
 The double whammy of lower prices and higher production costs is putting the brakes on the explosive growth of Brazil's soy area, an expansion that environmental groups say threatens the Amazon. After years of expanding as much as 15 percent annually, the area planted in soybeans is expected to rise 6 percent this season, to 56.3 million acres, according to the government's statistics agency.
 ''The way things are now, soy in Brazil isn't going to expand nearly as much as people have been forecasting,'' said Andre Pessoa, a managing partner at Agroconsult, an agribusiness consulting firm in Florianopolis. ''We're going to see a whole new situation in Brazil in the next year or two, which is probably a reduction in soy area.''
 Even if Brazil's soy area does contract next season, no one is predicting a huge drop in output just yet. The more rust spreads, the more farmers are learning how to contain the disease, albeit by spending more on fertilizer and fungicides. And crop management, in general, also keeps improving. This season, which ends next September, for example, Brazil is expected to produce 61.4 million to 64.5 million metric tons of soybeans, depending on the forecast, with just a modest increase in planted area.
 (The United States, by contrast, is expected to harvest 85.7 million metric tons of soybeans, up from 66.8 million last season, according to the Agriculture Department.)
 ''People are learning to live with the disease, but they are also learning that that means getting used to smaller profit margins,'' said Fernando Muraro, an agronomist who runs a consulting firm in Curitiba called Agencia Rural. ''Over time, that could mean that some farmers, especially the smaller ones, will migrate to other crops.''
 Eager to protect one of the country's biggest breadwinners in the global marketplace, the government and the private sector are scrambling to stop the spread of soy rust. Embrapa, the government's research agency, is investing heavily in a project that seeks to develop soy seeds by 2007 that either are resistant to rust or require less fungicide. So far, about $6 million has been set aside for the project.
 Meantime, the bad news for farmers has been good news for farm chemical companies like Bayer CropScience and Dow Chemical's AgroSciences unit, which are gearing up to reap the benefits of a surge in demand for fungicides. Brazilian farmers are expected to spend $500 million on fungicides this season to combat soy rust, up from $350 million in the last harvest, according to industry estimates. Bayer CropScience, for instance, already sells three types of fungicide for the disease and plans to introduce a fourth next year.
 ''The emergence of soy rust,'' said Peter Ahlgrimm, director of institutional relations at Bayer CropScience in Sao Paulo, ''has created a promising new market.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Growth of Brazil's soybean industry, which accounts for nearly half of the country's farm exports, is slowing. (Photo by Paulo Whitaker/Reuters)
 Asian soy rust, a fungus, can destroy large portions of a crop. (Photo by National Soybean Research Laboratory) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOYBEAN FARMING (92%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); WEATHER (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); BOTANY (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); CROP PRODUCTION (78%); AGRONOMY (78%); CROP DISEASE (76%); HURRICANES (74%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (54%); LIVESTOCK RESEARCH (50%) Soybeans; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Records and Achievements; Production; Farmers; Fungi; Soybeans

COMPANY: EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DE PESQUISA AGROPECUARIA (EMBRAPA) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS114111 FINFISH FISHING (54%); SIC0912 FINFISH (54%)

PERSON: Todd Benson

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%) BRAZIL (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); PARAGUAY (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BOLIVIA (79%) Brazil; China

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005



113 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Cablevision Asks City Council To Limit Mayor's Stadium Aid

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
In its latest effort to derail a proposed West Side stadium for the Jets, Cablevision is urging the City Council to pass a law prohibiting the Bloomberg administration from subsidizing the stadium with millions of dollars it receives from a special tax program.
 The proposed law would require the Council's approval before the city could use about $46.6 million a year in the special taxes, known as payments in lieu of taxes, collected by the city's Industrial Development Agency from 703 residential and commercial projects in the city. In the last fiscal year, most of that money -- $39 million -- went into the city's general fund, or operating budget. 
 Opponents of the stadium, led by Cablevision, which owns Madison Square Garden and considers the stadium to be competition, say that if the Council enacts the law, the Bloomberg administration would have a difficult time making good on its pledge to invest $300 million in the stadium project. 
 Cablevision and others have been circulating the proposed law for several weeks and spoke yesterday with staff members at the City Council. Some council members have been critical of the Bloomberg administration's decision to invest so much money in the stadium without putting it through the city's budget process and a vote by the Council.
 ''The speaker thinks that any budget decisions should go through the city's elected legislature,'' said Steve Sigmund, a spokesman for Gifford Miller, the Council speaker. ''But we have to examine what our legislative and legal authority is.''
 The proposed law brought a stinging rebuke from the administration, which pointed to the Garden's property tax break, worth $11 million this year. 
 ''Why don't the lying monopolists -- who ironically get an $11 million tax break -- seek a law making them the only company that is allowed to have sports teams and facilities in the city?'' said Ed Skyler, a spokesman for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. ''That way, they can raise ticket prices even higher, kick the Mets and the Yankees off the air any time they want and continue to charge the highest cable rates in the country without the petty nuisance of competition.''
 But City Councilwoman Christine Quinn, who supports the measure, said that Cablevision had a point.
 ''It's unfortunate that this has deteriorated into a slugfest between two billionaires,'' she said. ''This is a valid issue. They're taking money generated by other projects and dumping it into the stadium instead of the city budget. They can't simultaneously say it's self-financing.''
 The planned 75,000-seat stadium, with a retractable roof, is only one element of the city's ambitious plan to redevelop the West Side. But it is the most controversial. Stadium opponents have sought in a variety of ways to stop the project, including two lawsuits filed last month.
 The city has said it will sell bonds to pay for its $300 million share of the $1.4 billion stadium project, while remaining vague about how it would pay off the bonds. It may also have to pay the state's $300 million share, if the State Legislature fails to appropriate money for the project.
 Payments in lieu of taxes, known as Pilots, are often negotiated by the city with businesses or institutions that are building projects on city-owned land, sometimes as part of arrangements to keep them from leaving the city. The city has not said whether it intends to use these payments for the bonds, although the amount they generate for the Industrial Development Authority is about the same as the annual debt service on $600 million in bonds, or $42 million.
 Randy Mastro, a lawyer for Cablevision and a former deputy mayor, said it would not only be ''unprecedented'' for the city to use the Pilot payments for 30 years to pay off the stadium bonds, but also ''illegal.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (95%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); CITIES (93%); LEGISLATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); APPROVALS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); NUISANCE (68%); TICKET SALES (60%); PRICE CHANGES (60%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%) Football; Stadiums and Arenas; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (91%) New York Jets; Cablevision Inc

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%) Charles V Bagli; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005



114 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Inflation and Rate Concerns Hold Market Down Again

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street's 2005 slump extended into a third session yesterday as renewed concerns about inflation and higher interest rates sapped confidence from buyers.
 Investors were still digesting the latest news from the Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve, which sent stocks tumbling Tuesday when it released the minutes of its Dec. 14 meeting. 
 Several members of the policy-making group expressed concerns about inflation, citing a drop in productivity growth, a weakening dollar and high oil prices, and hinted that interest rates would probably be tightened more aggressively to deal with those issues. 
 ''There's a lot of indecisiveness today,'' said Brian Williamson, an equity trader at the Boston Company Asset Management. 
 ''Sellers got washed out late yesterday and today, and the market found a level where it had been trading a month or so ago and it's holding its ground. But because of what happened yesterday, you're not seeing that much conviction in the market.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average lost 32.95 points, or 0.3 percent, to 10,597.83, after staying in positive range for most of the day. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 4.31 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,183.74. The Nasdaq composite index slipped 16.62 points, or 0.8 percent, to 2,091.24.
 The market's action during the first few trading days of the year was somewhat unusual, particularly since 2004 ended on such a positive note, and with such high expectations for January. Still, after the kind of rally investors enjoyed during the last days of December, some pullback was to be expected, said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Company.
 ''Yes, we expect earnings to be good, and yes, we expect good things out of corporate America, but we had a significant run-up and now we have to consolidate, and some folks are taking some profits,'' Mr. Hogan said. ''I wouldn't write off 2005, I wouldn't write off January, but I'd say that's what's behind the cautious attitude of investors.''
 Crude futures fell after the government reported sizable increases in gasoline and heating oil inventories. Light crude for February delivery shed 52 cents, to $43.39 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Delta Air Lines was down 51 cents, or 7 percent, at $6.80, after the carrier said it was cutting domestic fares by up to 50 percent and scrapping its unpopular Saturday-stay requirement in a move to lure back customers. The airline's SimpliFares plan comes as Delta fights to stay out of bankruptcy.
 Among retailers, Nordstrom was up $1.44, to $47.06, after saying December sales rose a better-than-expected 9.3 percent. Despite the strong sales, company executives said in a conference call they were comfortable with their current forecast for the fourth quarter.
 Circuit City Stores slid 8.4 percent, or $1.25, to $13.71, after reporting disappointing sales for December. The company said its consumer electronics stores were operating efficiently, but holiday customer traffic was down.
 Xilinx shed 90 cents, to $27.54, after lowering its third-quarter sales forecast, saying it expects an 11 percent to 12 percent decline because of lower bookings and shipments. 
 Siebel Systems shed 27 cents, to $9.61, despite saying it expects fourth-quarter results to beat Wall Street expectations based on improvements in profitability and all revenue categories.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note rose 1/32, to a price of 9923/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, declined to 4.28 percent from 4.29 percent on Tuesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FUTURES (78%); HEATING OIL (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); US DOLLAR (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%); AIRLINES (63%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%); RETAILERS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: JEFFERIES & CO INC (65%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (62%); BOSTON CO ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (62%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005



115 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Big Spending by Yankees Is Not Proof of Big Profits

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
It is a source of continuing amazement in baseball: how do the Yankees, a team stocked with millionaires, continue to afford high-priced players like their newest superstar, Randy Johnson? 
 Does George Steinbrenner stash cash beneath the carpeting of his Tampa home, or is he gleefully deficit-spending his way to the World Series?
 Surely, the Yankees must be rolling in cash thanks to the 3.77 million fans who went to Yankee Stadium last season, the $64 million in rights fees from the YES Network and sponsors like Adidas. 
 But a closer look at the private finances of baseball's most successful, envied and valuable team reveals that it may not be making money. Whether that is the reason for its seeming disinterest in Carlos Beltran, the prime free agent of the off-season, is not known with certainty, but at some point, even the Yankees may resort to temporary prudence. 
 Consider that in addition to a 2004 payroll of $187.9 million, Steinbrenner, the Yankees' principal owner, was saddled last year with two other large expenses: $63 million to be paid into Major League Baseball's revenue-sharing fund and $25 million in luxury-tax payments, a penalty that only the Yankees have paid in each of the past two years. That meant that $276 million went to players and less-wealthy teams, from total revenue estimated at $315 million to $350 million, before Manager Joe Torre, the coaches, the front office, the minor league system and the rent were paid.
 In 2003, the payroll was a little smaller at $170 million, the revenue-sharing payment was the same $63 million and the luxury-tax payment was a lot less, at $11.2 million. And the Yankees, according to Michael Ozanian, a senior editor of Forbes magazine, posted an operating loss of $23 million that year, on revenue that he estimated at $238 million, including $119 million in income from ticket sales, luxury suites and club seats. 
 Andrew Zimbalist, an economics professor at Smith College who has written about baseball finances and who consulted for the players' union a decade ago, said the numbers might not add up for the Yankees.
 ''If you do a profit and loss, I don't think there's a plus at the bottom,'' he said. ''But that doesn't mean it doesn't make sense for Steinbrenner.''
 Zimbalist and other sports business experts said that beyond Steinbrenner's craving for more World Series titles, his goal is to build the value of the team and the YES Network, in which the Yankees and the former owners of the Nets are majority owners. That goal prevails, even if it means operating at a short-term loss. Last May, the Goldman Sachs Group arranged lending worth $225 million to the Yankees to help finance losses, provide working capital and consolidate debt. 
 The experts saw the acquisitions of Johnson, Alex Rodriguez and other marquee names as a strategy to keep nearly four million fans jamming Yankee Stadium annually, to keep the team winning and to keep YES ratings high.
 It may not be a coincidence that the addition of huge stars with enormous salaries has come since YES went on the air in 2002.
 ''It's an effort to keep the Yankees, always, as by far the premier brand,'' Ozanian said. ''But a lot of what Steinbrenner does is not to maximize profit, it's to win.''
 The empire-building -- the development of the Yankees as a ubiquitous entertainment product with ventures in Japan, with the Manchester United soccer team in England and in a new memorabilia business -- could lead to a team and a network each worth $1 billion or more. This year, Forbes valued the Yankees at $832 million.
 The Yankees declined to comment on their financial situation. What is known, through public documents, about past Yankee profitability is sketchy. A prospectus issued when bonds were sold to finance the Yankees-Nets merger showed the Yankees had a profit of $1.4 million in 1996, a loss of $8.6 million in 1997 and a leap to a $12.7 million profit in 1998. 
 In the first nine months of 1999 -- before the Yankees beat the Braves in the World Series and playoff revenues were added -- the team had a $4.4 million loss.
 And in 2001, when Commissioner Bud Selig testified before Congress and said there were 25 money-losing teams, he released a report that placed the Yankees among the money-making few: the team had an operating profit of $8.2 million before deductions for interest, depreciation and amortization.
 Several factors have altered Yankee finances in the 21st century. Steinbrenner's spending on player salaries has doubled since 2000, his bill for revenue sharing and the luxury tax has soared and the YES Network was created.
 The 2005 payroll, which without Beltran is about $200 million, will no doubt exceed the threshold that triggers baseball's luxury tax -- which is set at $128 million for next season. That will make the Yankees a three-time offender of the so-called deterrent to profligate spending and, as such, force to them to pay a 40 percent tax on all payroll over $128 million. That tax could end up close to $30 million. 
 There are more challenges ahead that will both increase Yankee revenue and payments to other teams. Sometime this year, the team will unveil its plan to build and privately finance a $750 million ballpark to replace Yankee Stadium. 
 While a modern facility would increase all sources of revenue, it would also lead to more money going into the revenue-sharing fund. On the other hand, the Yankees' debt payments for the stadium would be used as a revenue-sharing deduction that could save up to $15 million annually.
 Before the ballpark on Macombs Dam Park is completed, YES will have paid rights fees to the Yankees for seven or more years. Like other TV stations or regional sports networks owned by teams, YES's existence has raised questions about whether a network with the same or similar ownership to a team pays full market value for the cable rights in what is called a ''related party transaction.'' 
 The trend has also prompted concerns that income from the networks will unfairly subsidize team spending. 
 But Tom Werner, an owner of the Boston Red Sox, said that earnings from the New England Sports Network, which the team's investors, and the Bruins, also own, do not flow to the team. ''I know people think we're more robust because of the success of NESN, but we're not,'' Werner said. He said a higher payroll is traceable to enhanced revenues from sponsorships, new seating and other sources. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS REVENUES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); TICKET SALES (71%); COMPANY LOSSES (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Baseball; Fines (Penalties); Finances

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%) New York Yankees

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (82%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (82%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (82%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (82%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (82%)

PERSON: Richard Sandomir

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005



116 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: The Great Debate: The Future of Social Security

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Social Security Understates Future Life Spans, Critics Say'' (news article, Dec. 31):
 Sounding the death knell for Social Security is premature. The disciplines of geriatrics and gerontology provide models of productive, successful aging, with strikingly small medical cost increases.
 Healthier, longer lives will create market stimuli in economic demand for the ''silver'' industries, like robotic labor-saving devices from the high-tech industry. 
 The reflexive association of longevity gains with economic decline bolsters contemporary myths predicting the demise of Social Security. Economic growth stimulated by increased life spans could be its saving grace.

Marianne C. Fahs
New York, Jan. 1, 2005

The writer is director of research, Brookdale Center on Aging of Hunter College, CUNY.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (90%); AGING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GERONTOLOGY (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); GERIATRICS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%) Social Security (US)

PERSON: Marianne C Fahs

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005



117 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Alltel Is Said To Be Suitor For Carrier In Northwest

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and KEN BELSON

 BODY:
Alltel, the nation's sixth-largest wireless carrier, is in advanced negotiations to buy Western Wireless, a regional carrier in the Northwest, for roughly $4 billion, executives close to the talks said last night.
 The deal, which would be the latest in the rapidly shrinking wireless industry, could be reached within the next week, the executives said.
 Combined, Alltel, which is based in Little Rock, Ark., and Western Wireless, based in Bellevue, Wash., would have about $10 billion in revenue and 9.8 million subscribers -- about 6 percent of the national market. Alltel, which also has a fixed-line business, provides wireless service in parts of nearly two dozen states, mostly in the Southeast and Midwest; Western Wireless operates in 19 Western states, primarily under the Cellular One brand. 
 In addition to having complementary geographic footprints, the companies both use the same wireless technology, a standard called C.D.M.A.
 The potential deal, as well as a surge in prominent mergers last year, reflects a renewed confidence among corporate executives, who have been buoyed by higher stock prices, a growing economy and low interest rates.
 The talks between Alltel and Western Wireless could also signal a new phase in the $100 billion wireless industry as smaller regional carriers begin to consolidate. Among the major carriers, federal regulators are likely to resist any other potential mergers, assuming Sprint completes its planned acquisition of Nextel Communications. 
 The country still has dozens of smaller carriers, like Western Wireless, that serve specific regional markets, often quite profitably.
 With the market in the United States rapidly reaching saturation, large carriers like Cingular Wireless and Verizon Wireless still want access to customers in rural areas without having to spend billions of dollars expanding their networks. To do that, national carriers have formed roaming agreements that allow their customers to use their phones cheaply when traveling outside metropolitan areas, and for local carriers to piggyback on the national carrier's network.
 Verizon, for instance, has an extensive agreement with Alltel, the largest regional carrier with 8.4 million subscribers who can roam on Verizon's network at a discount.
 Their relationship led to speculation that Verizon would eventually buy Alltel, particularly in the weeks since Sprint announced plans to merge with Nextel. If Verizon bought Alltel, it would leapfrog Cingular and become the biggest carrier again.
 Now, however, it appears that rather than buy Alltel, Verizon is content to see Alltel become bigger and to allow its subscribers to use its expanded network.
 ''It's not clear how critical it is for Verizon to acquire customers in rural regions,'' said Tom Watts, an industry analyst at SG Cowen. ''The roaming partners are already under constant pressure from Verizon to lower their rates. And there's less money spent in rural areas, so going rural doesn't seem to be the right strategy for Verizon.''
 While the talks between Alltel and Western Wireless are on track to be completed next week, the executives warned that several points were being negotiated, including the final price, and that it remained possible that the talks could collapse. As part of the transaction, Alltel would also assume about $2 billion of debt from Western Wireless.
 Shares of Western Wireless have rallied in recent weeks, partly as a result of the news of Sprint's deal with Nextel. The shares have jumped almost 15 percent in the last month, ending yesterday at $31 a share. 
 If Western Wireless were taken over for $4 billion, as the executive estimated, that would mean that shareholders would receive $40 a share, a 29 percent premium to the closing price of the shares yesterday.
 Even if it bought Western Wireless, Alltel would still be less than a quarter the size of Cingular, the market leader. But its strong balance sheet and an A debt rating means it can continue shopping for smaller wireless carriers, particularly if they operate in areas adjacent to Alltel's network.
 ''Reasonably priced, Alltel would certainly be interested in being a serial acquirer of smaller carriers,'' said Roger Entner, an industry analyst at the Yankee Group. ''There is an opportunity for a Wal-Mart-like roll-up of the rural carriers.''
 A deal for Western Wireless would be a significant achievement for John W. Stanton, Western's chairman and chief executive. A major shareholder in Western Wireless, he is one of several pioneers who helped develop the cellular industry in the United States. In the 1980's, he helped McCaw Communications enter the cellphone business.
 In 1988, he and his wife, Theresa Gillespie, formed Stanton Communications, which focused on cellular services as well as pagers and other wireless products. After several other stops, Mr. Stanton founded and was chairman of VoiceStream Wireless, which was sold to Deutsche Telekom in May 2001.
 He was chairman of T-Mobile USA, the successor to VoiceStream, until 2003.
 An Alltel spokesman, Andrew Moreau, had no comment. Mr. Stanton and a spokesman for Western Wireless were unavailable for comment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (93%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); MERGERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (86%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (79%); CODE DIVISION MULTIPLE ACCESS (78%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (75%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); DIVESTITURES (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Cellular Telephones; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: ALLTEL CORP (95%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (91%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (91%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Alltel Corp ; Western Wireless Corp

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (85%); VZ (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (95%)

PERSON: Andrew Ross Sorkin; Ken Belson

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%) ARKANSAS, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Northwestern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005



118 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Bush Begins Drive to Limit Malpractice Suit Awards

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: COLLINSVILLE, Ill., Jan. 5 

 BODY:
President Bush demanded Wednesday that Congress take immediate action to impose strict limits on medical malpractice litigation, saying doctors ''should be focused on fighting illnesses, not on fighting lawsuits.''
 Kicking off a campaign for sweeping changes in the nation's civil justice system, Mr. Bush received a standing ovation here when he said Congress should establish ''a hard cap of $250,000'' on the amount that patients could recover for noneconomic damages like physical and emotional pain and suffering.
 ''We need to fix a broken medical liability system,'' he said. ''The United States Congress needs to pass real medical liability reform this year.'' 
 Mr. Bush said he had come here, to Madison County in southwestern Illinois, because the county illustrated the problems he wanted to solve. The proliferation of ''baseless lawsuits,'' he said, has led to immense increases in malpractice insurance premiums, prompting doctors to curtail services or move to other states.
 A coalition of business and professional groups recently named Madison County and adjacent St. Clair County as the best places in the United States for plaintiffs to file and win civil lawsuits. 
 Mr. Bush spoke in front of a large banner that promised ''affordable health care,'' on a stage filled with dozens of doctors in white coats. He noted that he had often talked about malpractice litigation in last year's campaign, and he said he now had a mandate, because ''voters made their position clear on Election Day.'' 
 Expanding his focus beyond malpractice cases, Mr. Bush said Congress should also establish new rules for class action lawsuits and asbestos cases, which he described as ''the longest-running mass tort litigation in U.S. history.''
 Mr. Bush seemed to relish the prospect of victory in a battle with plaintiffs' lawyers, who have donated hundreds of thousands of dollars to Democratic candidates around the country, just as business groups have supported Republicans.
 ''It's hard work for some in Congress to stand up to the trial lawyers,'' Mr. Bush said. ''I understand that.''
 ''Junk lawsuits are so unpredictable, they drive up insurance costs for all doctors, even for those who have never been sued, even for those who have never had a claim against them,'' he said.
 He asserted that doctors were turning away patients with complicated life-threatening conditions because those cases often carried ''the highest risk for a lawsuit.'' 
 The House has repeatedly passed bills to limit damages in malpractice cases, but the measures have died in the Senate, where Republicans now hope to prevail after gaining seats in the November elections.
 Mr. Bush has strongly supported the House bills, which would protect not only doctors, but also health maintenance organizations, nursing homes and manufacturers of drugs and medical devices.
 Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said Wednesday, ''The president's medical malpractice plan is nothing but a shameful shield for drug companies and health maintenance organizations that hurt people through negligence.''
 Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the new Senate Democratic whip, did not dispute the existence of a problem but said Congress should take a balanced approach.
 ''Many good doctors are innocent victims of skyrocketing medical malpractice premiums,'' Mr. Durbin said. ''Many good people are innocent victims of medical malpractice. Lawyers who exploit the system for injured patients must be curbed. A health care system that allows too many medical errors must be fixed, and insurance companies that exploit doctors and patients with exorbitant premium increases must be held accountable.''
 Mr. Bush did not say what, if anything, states might do to discipline incompetent doctors or to beef up insurance regulation. He denounced ''junk lawsuits,'' but did not say how he would distinguish frivolous from meritorious claims, a task that has historically been performed by judges and juries.
 In a summary of Mr. Bush's proposals, the White House said they would protect patients and ''stop the skyrocketing costs associated with frivolous lawsuits.''
 ''Frivolous lawsuits and excessive jury awards are driving many health care providers out of communities and forcing doctors to practice overly defensive medicine,'' the White House said. ''This reduces access to medically necessary services and raises the costs of health care for all.''
 The president said his proposals would still allow anyone injured by a negligent doctor or hospital to recover the full amount of any economic damages, including medical expenses and lost earnings.
 The Senate Democratic leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, said, ''If the president is serious about bringing down health care costs, Senate Democrats stand ready to work with him.'' 
 But Mr. Reid said, ''Congress should not be giving a free pass to big drug companies at a time when millions of Americans may have had their health put at risk by pharmaceutical giants.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush, speaking in Illinois, urged action on medical liability. (Photo by Paul J. Richards/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (95%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (91%); DAMAGES (90%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TORT REFORM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); TRIAL & PROCEDURE (78%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (78%); EMOTIONAL DISTRESS (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (78%); TORTS (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LAWYERS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); ASBESTOS (72%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (65%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (60%); HISTORY (50%) Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Malpractice; Suits and Litigation; Insurance; Law and Legislation; Medicine and Health; Pain

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush; Edward M (Sen) Kennedy

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005



119 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Divided As Bush Views Social Security

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
As he begins deciding on details of his plan to add personal investment accounts to Social Security, President Bush is confronting a deep split within his own party over how to proceed. 
 Two Republican camps are pitted against each other over how big the accounts should be and whether the president should embrace cuts in benefits.
 Mr. Bush intends to step up his involvement in the issue in coming days. He is meeting with Republican leaders at the White House on Thursday and giving a speech next week. 
 In addition, he is dispatching his Treasury secretary, John W. Snow, to New York to reassure Wall Street that his approach, which could involve trillions of dollars in new government borrowing, is consistent with efforts to reduce the budget deficit and improve the nation's financial condition.
 But even as groups opposed to Mr. Bush's call for personal accounts intensify their efforts, the White House is still trying to develop a plan that can hold Republicans together while attracting at least a handful of Democrats in Congress, say administration officials, conservative activists, members of Congress and economists.
 The main issues, they said, are whether Mr. Bush should back a proposal to reduce substantially the guaranteed government retirement benefit through a change in the way the benefit is calculated, and whether workers should be allowed to contribute all of their Social Security payroll taxes into their accounts or only a part.
 The indications so far, they said, are that Mr. Bush will stick with his inclination to reduce scheduled benefits to assure the retirement system's long-term solvency, and that he will back smaller accounts than many of his supporters would like. But to bridge the gap between the sides in the debate, they said, the administration is considering several proposals, including phasing in increases in the size of the accounts over many years or allowing lower-income workers to invest a higher proportion of their wages in private accounts than upper-income people would be permitted to invest.
 One group of Republicans is pressing the administration to make the accounts as big as possible, preferably permitting the investment of all or nearly all of the 6.2 percent levy on wages that individuals contribute to Social Security. (Under all proposals, employers would continue to pay an additional 6.2 percent tax on each employee's wages up to a wage cap that this year is $90,000.)
 Many of the same Republicans have also come out forcefully against a proposal to deal with Social Security's long-term financial problems by reducing the part of future retirement benefits that would come from the government. 
 Their approach is embodied in legislation introduced in Congress by Senator John E. Sununu, Republican of New Hampshire, and Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin. Their plan would allow investment of 6 percent of the wages subject to the payroll tax and would not mandate across-the-board reductions in scheduled benefits.
 That approach is viewed warily by many other Republicans. Those Republicans say that diverting money that would otherwise go to pay benefits into the private accounts would lead to a sharp spike in the budget deficit in the short run. They say the approach would also raise what they say is a false expectation that Social Security's problems can be addressed without any painful steps. 
 But the approach has been embraced by some other high-profile Republicans, who say it would be a bold move to harness the power of markets to address social and economic issues and would in the long run leave the nation in much stronger financial condition.
 ''The president should go for a very large account because it's going to take exactly the same amount of energy to get a large account as a small one, and you get a dramatically bigger reward with a large account,'' said Newt Gingrich, a Republican and former House speaker. ''And anything that changes benefits on an involuntary basis will allow the Democrats, the AARP and the unions to beat our brains in. It isn't politically doable.''
 But another camp, which includes many of the White House economic advisers, supports reducing the guaranteed benefit by switching from a system that calculates the initial benefit a worker receives at retirement based on how fast wages are growing throughout the economy. In its place would be a formula setting the initial benefit based on how fast prices rise. 
 Since wages tend to grow faster than prices, the shift would sharply reduce the growth of benefits in coming decades, helping close the projected gap between how much money Social Security takes in and how much it pays out. But critics, including most Democrats, say the change would leave future retirees unable to keep up with improvements in living standards.
 The camp that favors the shift in calculating benefits has also tended to favor limiting contributions to the personal accounts to 2 percent or 3 percent of the wages subject to the payroll tax, in part to hold down the need for the government to borrow hundreds of billions or even trillions of dollars in coming decades. 
 Some economists and business groups that support Mr. Bush on Social Security say financial markets are already jittery about the government's ability to rein in the budget and trade deficits and that more borrowing could lead to a faster fall in the value of the dollar, higher interest rates and slower economic growth.
 Administration officials said Mr. Bush had not made any decisions. But there has been a wave of signals from the White House recently about where he seems to be headed.
 In an e-mail message this week that circulated among conservative activists, Peter Wehner, a top aide to Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's senior adviser and political strategist, made clear that the White House was leaning toward a reduction in scheduled benefits, partly because failing to do so would unsettle the financial markets and risk harm to the economy.
 ''You may know that there is a small number of conservatives who prefer to push only for investment accounts and make no effort to adjust benefits, therefore making no effort to address this fundamental structural problem,'' Mr. Wehner said in the message. ''In my judgment, that's a bad idea. We simply cannot solve the Social Security problem with personal retirement accounts alone.''
 Similarly, White House officials have made no secret that they are most comfortable with proposals that hold the size of the accounts to well below the 6 percent proposal in the Ryan-Sununu bill. They often point to plans like one developed in 2001 by Mr. Bush's Social Security commission that would allow lower-income workers to place up to 4 percent of their wages into their accounts, up to a cap of $1,000. 
 That dollar cap would also apply to people at higher income levels, though, meaning the percentage of their income they could invest through the accounts would be considerably less -- barely 1 percent for someone earning $90,000.
 Seeking to head off unhappiness among Republicans who want Mr. Bush to take the bolder route, White House officials have been emphasizing the importance of unifying behind whatever plan has the best chance of being signed into law. In his e-mail message, Mr. Wehner said that achieving Mr. Bush's basic goals of putting Social Security on sound financial footing while adding personal accounts would ''rank as one of the most significant conservative governing achievements ever.'' 
 But some Republican activists said they were concerned that the White House's approach would leave the party's right wing disheartened. If Mr. Bush chooses too cautious an approach, ''the enthusiasm among a lot of conservatives will wane,'' said Stephen Moore, a conservative economist and activist who just founded an advocacy group, the Free Enterprise Foundation, to push action on issues including Social Security and tax reform. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); BUDGETS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); CORPORATE TAX (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (54%) Social Security (US); Social Security (US)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); JOHN SUNUNU (57%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005



120 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Power of Positive Pataki In Upbeat Annual Address

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
New York State may face big deficits, enormous bills coming due for education, transportation and health care, and a national reputation for government gridlock, but Gov. George E. Pataki told a joint session of the Legislature on Wednesday that ''the storm clouds are dispersing and the sun is breaking through.''
 Actually, it was snowing on and off outside the Capitol. But the inclement weather, and the troubles looming on the state's horizon, did not keep Mr. Pataki from invoking the sun in a relentlessly optimistic address to lawmakers. 
 That optimism -- and a propensity to stay on message, and glance over bad news -- has served Mr. Pataki well during his 10 years as governor. When he ran for re-election in 2002, for instance, he sidestepped questions about the size of the state's ballooning deficit. Then he won a third term, and acknowledged after his victory that the deficit had grown to more than $10 billion.
 Now, as Mr. Pataki weighs his political future, and tries to dispel any impression that he could be a lame-duck governor, he is reverting to form. The main message of his speech seemed to be that he had accomplished great things during his tenure, but that he could accomplish more.
 The questions about Mr. Pataki's future were only underscored by the fact that watching over his shoulder during the address was Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, a Democrat who has announced that he would like to replace the governor in two years. Mr. Pataki used his speech to call for several reform measures that have been championed recently by Mr. Spitzer, including banning lobbying for state contracts and banning gifts from lobbyists.
 Most of the speech was a fond look back at what Mr. Pataki called his many bold accomplishments of the last decade. In fact, he used the word ''bold'' some 21 times, usually as part of the phrase ''bold, sweeping fundamental change.'' There was little mention of bad news or political defeats of any kind.
 So it was that early on, as Mr. Pataki listed his accomplishments reducing crime, he declared, ''We instituted the death penalty,'' not mentioning that it had been struck down by the judges of the state's highest court, the Court of Appeals, who were sitting before him in the front row. It was not until a few moments later that he acknowledged tacitly that the law was off the books for now, when he said that he would submit legislation this year ''ensuring that our state has a strong death penalty law.'' 
 Mr. Pataki only obliquely referred to the state's failure to comply with a court order to fix New York City's schools, which could lead to another court order forcing it to spend as much as $23 billion more on New York City's schools over the next five years. ''Let's not cede this task to the courts,'' he told the lawmakers. 
 The governor spoke of ''facility improvements'' for health care, but did not mention that a panel he appointed has recommended closing hospitals around the state. 
 When he ticked off his economic development accomplishments, Mr. Pataki praised the state's Empire Zone program, which gives tax breaks to businesses in certain areas, but did not mention that it was only temporarily extended last year, because the state's leaders could not agree on what they all said were much-needed changes. 
 And when Mr. Pataki outlined several reform measures to change how Albany operates, he did not try to paint a very bad picture of a state government in which a state senator and a former member of his administration went to jail last year for scandals involving bribery and lobbying for state contracts. After ticking off his accomplishments, he said that ''while there is much to be proud of, we still have more to do in terms of reforming the process itself.''
 All told, it was a far cry from the approach taken by one of Mr. Pataki's predecessors, Hugh L. Carey, who was in the audience here on Wednesday. Mr. Carey bluntly announced that ''the days of wine and roses are over'' when he took office. 
 Signaling the changing dynamic in Albany as all sides gear up for the 2006 election, Mr. Spitzer, who as attorney general is, in part, the governor's lawyer, offered a dim view of Mr. Pataki's speech, saying it did not reflect how he sees New York. 
 ''There is a wonderful need for optimism and affirmative thought; having said that, a crisis is a terrible thing to waste,'' said Mr. Spitzer, explaining that he thinks a more clear-eyed appraisal of the troubles with the state's economy, its government programs and its governance could help galvanize change.
 And Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi said that the state's fiscal condition does not seem to warrant any sunny forecasts right now: he pointed to deficits estimated at $6 billion next year and more than $7 billion the following year, and noted that the governor's calls for more tax cuts would drain more revenue from the state.
 There were several new initiatives sprinkled through Mr. Pataki's speech, like a program to catch fugitives called ''Project SAF-T,'' and another to fight childhood obesity called ''Active-8 Kids.'' 
 But this year's so-called State of the State address sounded more like a look back, and an effort to shape his legacy, than a look ahead at the battles to come later this year. He talked about land he had conserved, taxes he had cut, criminal laws he had signed. 
 What that says about Mr. Pataki's plans for the future was the subject of much debate at the receptions, parties and news conferences that followed the address.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Behind Gov. George E. Pataki are Lt. Gov. Mary O. Donohue and Attorney General Eliot Spitzer. (Photo by Tim Roske/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LOBBYING (89%); LITIGATION (86%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (84%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (84%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); APPEALS COURTS (60%) State of the State Message (NYS)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%) Michael Cooper; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005



121 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Delta Fare Plan Turns Industry On Its Head

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
With the nation's traditional airlines caught in a dizzying vortex, Delta Air Lines is trying to break away from the pack by switching sides.
 By capping fares and simplifying prices, Delta, the nation's third-largest carrier, provoked a price war this week, as it became the first big airline to join forces with low-fare players like Southwest, JetBlue and AirTran.
 For consumers, the moves mean good deals for now and more opportunities to take cheap trips without Saturday night stay-overs and other restrictions. They also will mean hundreds of dollars in savings on costly business-class fares, a relief for many companies trying to save. 
 But over the longer run, it could mean fewer choices and the elimination of flights to certain smaller cities. It could even force one or more airlines out of the big leagues, with the first casualty most likely to be US Airways, which is in bankruptcy for the second time in two years.
 Nonetheless, in the last two days, one big airline after another -- American, a unit of AMR; United, a unit of UAL; Continental; Northwest; and US Airways -- has hustled to cut fares to the levels set by Delta, shaving billions of dollars in badly needed revenue at a time when they have already been making deep cuts in spending and eliminating jobs.
 Despite the furor that Delta's action has caused, analysts and industry executives say, the move was inevitable.
 ''It was only a matter of time'' before a big airline saw the light, said Dan McKenzie, the airline industry analyst at Smith Barney. ''They've been gouging their best customers, and they can't get away with it any more.''
 Scott D. Nason, vice president for revenue management at American, said: ''There has been an inexorable drive to lower fares. I'd be lying if I told you I was shocked'' at Delta's action. 
 After years of charging whatever they pleased for tickets, particularly for those bought at the last minute, big airlines can no longer escape the pressure to slash fares.
 Because of the growing power of low-fare airlines, which now carry a quarter of the nation's travelers, passengers are paying $84 on average for a one-way trip from New York to Miami, and just over $200 to fly from New York to San Francisco, according to Back Aviation Solutions, an industry consulting firm.
 But the big airlines simply cannot afford to offer such fares without adopting the low-cost model that is the hallmark of companies like Southwest, JetBlue and AirTran. Not coincidently, all of those airlines made money in 2004, when the big airlines collectively lost $5.5 billion, according to analysts' estimates.
 Further, they did so by limiting ticket prices to $299 one-way, far less than the $499 one-way cap that Delta placed on coach-class fares this week, when it also put a $599 one-way cap on business-class fares. 
 That means more cuts could be in store if the big airlines face what the market is truly demanding, executives at low-fare carriers say.
 ''Maybe they will get more real,'' the chief executive at JetBlue, David G. Neeleman, said.
 ''It will put pressure on a lot of folks, that's a given,'' said Laura H. Wright, chief financial officer at Southwest. 
 Even with the higher caps, Delta said it had had an enormous response. On Wednesday, the first day the fares were available, traffic on its Web site rose 300 percent. Thursday was the single biggest day in the site's history.
 Despite all that, major competitors remain unwilling to impose their own fare caps.
 Although American, Continental, Northwest, United and US Airways all cut fares on the routes where they compete with Delta, none had adopted the fare limits, an indication that they had not accepted the idea of caps.
 ''We don't think that's the best thing either for us or our customers,'' said Mr. Nason at American, which until late Wednesday charged $1,099 for a one-way ticket bought at the last minute from Dallas to La Guardia Airport. That fare is now $699. 
 Mr. Nason said the newest fare battles would only accelerate the need at American and other carriers to step up their cost-cutting. ''Obviously, we were struggling financially before, he said. The Delta move will make the pressure ''that much greater.'' 
 Ms. Wright said, ''To have those caps, you have to have low costs, and that puts a huge discipline on the operation.''
 Even Delta will not escape that cost pressure. It came within a few hours of filing for bankruptcy protection last fall, avoiding it only when its pilots agreed to cut their salaries by a third. Moreover, Delta has seen its cash rapidly ebb in the last year, and it is saddled with $20 billion in debt that it has not yet figured out how to restructure.
 But Delta, which has been thinking about the fare limits for at least four years, felt forced to act because of the invasion of its markets by low-fare airlines. More than 60 percent of its competition on the East Coast, in Florida and at its Atlanta hub comes from low-fare carriers.
 Given that, it no longer makes sense for Delta to compare itself to the old-line airlines, said Paul Mateson, a Delta senior vice president and the company's chief marketing officer. 
 As for forcing its rivals to go along, Mr. Mateson said, ''the rest of the industry will have to assess what's right for them.'' 
 Those airlines are viewing the 70-year-old company's step as a betrayal of sorts, as if Delta had crossed the playground to join up with the other side, the side that seems to be winning. But someday, they too may be forced to cross over.
 That realization is yet another burden for the airlines, which at this point must feel like Sisyphus, constantly being crushed every time they try to make progress.
 Only a year ago, the companies were optimistic that they would be able to finally post profits in 2004, but their efforts were stymied by the record climb in jet fuel prices. 
 They approached 2005 thinking that their efforts to slash costs, jobs and streamline their operations might finally pay off, only to be faced with Delta's initiative, which is likely to make their problems even worse.
 That means more of the ''cataclysmic upheaval'' that has racked the industry, said Jan K. Brueckner, professor of economics at the University of California, Irvine. 
 He went on: ''When have you ever seen such adjustment in such a short period of time? It's really unusual to witness this day after day.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: United pilots ratified a contract yesterday that is expected to generate about $180 million in annual savings. (Photo by Nam Y. Huh/Associated Press)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIR FARES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (76%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (74%); TICKET SALES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); LABOR UNIONS (62%) Airlines and Airplanes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Bankruptcies; Airlines and Airplanes; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Givebacks (Collective Bargaining)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Delta Air Lines; Southwest Airlines; Jetblue Airways; Airtran Airways Inc; US Airways; Amr Corp; Ual Corp; American Airlines; Continental Airlines; Northwest Airlines

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); LCC (NYSE) (92%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2005



122 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; On Baseball; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Beltran's Cost Would Not Equal Worth to Yankees

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
THE Mets are in hiding. Their executives are not answering the telephone, and they are not returning calls. Most of the callers want to talk about Carlos Beltran, and the Mets don't want to talk about Carlos Beltran. That is, they don't want to talk to anyone about Carlos Beltran except Scott Boras.
 Boras is Beltran's agent, and he doesn't necessarily return calls, either, as he works to advance his cause, which is to get his client more money than the gross national product. 
 One thing Boras clearly wants to do is lure George Steinbrenner into the bidding mix, perhaps by spreading the notion that Steinbrenner, the Yankees' principal owner, couldn't possibly pass up the opportunity to sign a player with Beltran's hitting, fielding and base-running talent. 
 So far Steinbrenner hasn't appeared to bite.
 ''They're sending messages to anyone who will listen that they're out,'' a baseball official said of the Yankees yesterday. ''Is it a smokescreen? I don't know. But I think they're legitimately out of it.''
 Yankees officials said earlier in the week that they could not deal with the Beltran matter until they finished negotiations with Randy Johnson for a contract extension. They finished those negotiations yesterday, but they did not jump into the Beltran pursuit.
 ''If George is involved, we don't know it,'' one team executive said.
 Here's one reason Steinbrenner may not be involved. 
 If the Yankees were to sign Beltran, a free-agent center fielder, they would do so understanding that his cost to them would be greater than his salary. If they signed him to a contract with an average annual value of $17 million, for example, the cost to them next season would be $23.8 million. The additional $6.8 million would be the luxury tax they would have to pay on Beltran's contract. 
 The Yankees' payroll next season will be well beyond the $128 million luxury-tax threshold, and their tax rate will be 40 percent because next season will be their third year over the threshold in the current collective bargaining agreement. Every payroll dollar the Yankees spend now actually costs them $1.40. At that rate, $17 million costs an additional $6.8 million.
 Steinbrenner, on the other hand, may not care about the tax. Maybe he wants Beltran but has ordered his aides to say the Yankees are not interested because he doesn't want anybody to know what they are doing.
 As for Boras, he was quoted yesterday as saying five teams had serious interest in Beltran, but he did not identify them.
 The Mets, the Houston Astros, the Chicago Cubs. Those are the teams known to have expressed serious interest. That's three, not five. 
 Boras has a reputation for making large-scale claims of interest in his clients that often enough produce skepticism. No one, however, has ever produced hard evidence that he has exaggerated the number of teams chasing a player he represents. To his credit, Boras has generally succeeded in signing his clients to top-dollar deals, which is always his goal, so he has not had his bluff called.
 The Mets talked to Boras yesterday, although they have not talked publicly about their conversations. 
 The Mets haven't even acknowledged making an offer for Beltran, although they did make one Wednesday. The numbers are unimportant because they most likely have changed already, but the Mets presumably began the bidding conservatively, say at six years for about $100 million, figuring they would leave the offer room to grow.
 The Mets' offer also figured to be better than any that the Astros or the Cubs have made. (The Astros made an opening offer of five years and $75 million, with an option for a sixth year.) If circumstances remain the same, the Mets should snare Beltran because Boras's clients always take the best offer. 
 Time is another factor. The Astros, with whom Beltran played the second half of last season, have only until tomorrow at midnight to sign him. If they don't, they lose rights to him until May 1. There has been some thought that Beltran will make a decision by the Astros' deadline, but he does not have to unless he really wants to play in Houston. 
 The Mets, the Cubs and any other team that Boras has in mind can continue negotiations beyond tomorrow. 
 One advantage the Astros have is the absence of a state income tax in Texas. To match a Mets offer, the Astros would not have to give Beltran as much money. But while that might work for Beltran, it wouldn't for Boras. Five percent -- his fee -- of $75 million is not the same as 5 percent of $100 million, whether it's in Texas or New York.
 While they pursue Beltran, the Mets may want to revisit a transaction they attempted earlier in the off-season, Mike Piazza to Los Angeles for Shawn Green.
 The Dodgers wanted to trade Green to Arizona and save $8 million of his $16 million salary this season; they would have given the Diamondbacks $8 million to offset the salary. But Green and the Diamondbacks failed by the deadline yesterday to agree on a contract extension that would have led Green to waive the no-trade clause in his contract.
 The Mets would still like to have Green to play first base or right field, but their earlier talks with the Dodgers ended when Green let it be known that he would not approve a trade because he did not want to play in New York. 
 But now that the Dodgers have tried unsuccessfully to trade him twice in the space of a few weeks -- and even though their general manager said yesterday that he expected Green to be with the team on opening day -- Green might get the idea that they don't want him around and opt for the immense popularity that a Jewish player, a good Jewish player at that, would enjoy in New York. He would just have to know that he wouldn't have to attend all the bar mitzvahs he would be invited to.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Mets' interest in Shawn Green might be renewed, now that his trade from the Dodgers to the Diamondbacks has fallen through. (Photo by Ric Francis/Associated Press)(pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); EXCISE TAX (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (76%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); LABOR UNIONS (63%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (50%) Baseball

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%) New York Yankees; New York Mets

PERSON: Murray Chass; Carlos Beltran

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (73%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2005



123 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Waves of Change

BYLINE: By David Hale. 
David Hale, an economist and financial adviser, is chairman of China Online, a business news site.

DATELINE: Chicago 

 BODY:
''CIVILIZATION exists by geologic consent, subject to change without notice,'' wrote the historian Will Durant. The tsunami that struck Asia last month, caused by an earthquake off the coast of Indonesia, is a reminder of the validity of Durant's thesis; so far it has left some 140,000 people dead.
 Throughout human history, earthquakes have set in motion great economic changes and political revolutions. Last month's tsunami was devastating in its toll on human life, but its economic and political effects may be more modest. 
 The San Francisco earthquake in 1906 was an important catalyst for the financial shocks that led to the creation of the Federal Reserve in 1913. Because British insurance companies underwrote the majority of the city's insurance policies, millions of pounds of insurance claims were soon presented in London. The insurance claims generated a huge outflow of gold from London, which forced the Bank of England to nearly double British interest rates and to lobby British banks to stop buying American debt. Higher interest rates played a role in creating a financial panic in America, and Congress was so alarmed that it established a commission to investigate whether the government should play a greater role managing the money supply. The result of the commission's work was the creation of the Federal Reserve Bank. 
 Most of the businesses and people affected by last month's tsunami are relatively poor, and few had insurance. As a result, estimates of the insurance cost of the disaster are about $10 billion. The losses to the various national economies may also not exceed $10 billion.
 Aceh, the Indonesian province where up to 100,000 people may have been killed, accounts for only about 2 percent of the country's gross domestic product. Thailand's southern provinces, which were overrun by the tsunami, contribute only about 2 percent of the country's G.D.P. 
 Sri Lanka, however, suffered extensive damage to its tourism, fishing and agricultural sectors. Tourism is a major industry there, directly or indirectly accounting for nearly 11 percent of gross domestic product, and the devastation in southern Sri Lanka could reduce G.D.P. by 2 percent to 3 percent this year. The regional impact will be modest, though, because Sri Lanka's economy is only about $74 billion compared with $478 billion for Thailand and $759 billion for Indonesia. 
 Thailand and Indonesia could suffer greater economic losses if their tourism industries decline; tourism is 12 percent of Thailand's economy and 10 percent of Indonesia's. But as the terrorist attack in Bali in 2002 and the SARS epidemic in 2003 demonstrated, shock events do not usually affect tourism for longer than a few months if people perceive that danger has passed. In fact, Thai hotel stocks declined on the day after the tsunami but have since recovered. 
 Earthquakes have also generated great political shocks. An earthquake in November 1755 destroyed Lisbon and killed at least 60,000 people. It also encouraged Portugal's foreign minister, Sebastiao de Carvalho, to usurp power from the king and launch a campaign against the Roman Catholic Church. Carvalho effectively reigned over Portugal until 1777. 
 In 1972, an earthquake in Nicaragua helped to nurture an incipient revolution against the ruling Somoza family. Outraged at the government's response to the catastrophe, many Nicaraguans in Managua turned to the Sandinistas, who ousted the Somozas in 1979. 
 Last month's earthquake could have important political implications because it struck regions in Indonesia and Sri Lanka that are home to domestic insurgent groups. Separatists in Aceh and Tamils in Sri Lanka have been challenging their governments for more than 20 years. The Indonesian government was initially slow to deploy aid, and many soldiers ran from the scene of the disaster, which could affect the standing of the new president, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, who had been promising to improve government efficiency. The Sri Lankan government, meanwhile, has allowed international aid agencies to coordinate relief with the Tamil separatists. 
 There is precedent for an earthquake encouraging political reconciliation. In 1999, earthquakes struck Turkey and Greece just a month apart and fostered cooperation between the two nations. The Turkish quake devastated an industrial city and killed more than 15,000 people; the Greeks sent relief and received positive news media coverage in Turkey. When a milder earthquake struck Greece a month later, Turkey reciprocated by sending aid. 
 The great risk in Aceh today is mismanagement of the reconstruction process. The Indonesian military has ruled the province since the fall of President Suharto in 1998 and has excluded foreign journalists. Since the earthquake, however, the province has been overrun with the global press and inundated with international relief agencies. When more foreign aid arrives, the Indonesian military could try to steal it. The presence of the United Nations could also encourage the Aceh separatists to demand more democracy in the province and even a referendum on independence. It would be a shame if the tsunami destabilized the administration of President Yudhoyono only a few months after he assumed office as a result of the country's first democratic presidential election. 
 The American press has been full of stories about how American aid for the earthquake and tsunami victims could help to improve American relations with the region. Public and private donations to the region from the United States could exceed $600 million. There is little doubt that the United States is playing a leadership role along with Japan, which has pledged $500 million, and the European Union, which has pledged $580 million. The new rising power in the region, China, is offering only $63 million.
 What is unclear is whether Asians will regard the American aid as a truly transforming event or as a temporary burst of generosity from an aggressive superpower. Much may depend upon the follow-through. There is talk in Washington of capitalizing on the disaster by intensifying efforts to obtain a free trade agreement with Thailand and revive moribund talks about such an agreement with Sri Lanka. These developments could have a more lasting impact than the aid itself.
 IN the 19th century, Indonesia was the site of two great volcanic eruptions whose impact was felt worldwide. The eruption at Tambora in 1815 killed at least 50,000 and spewed so much ash into the atmosphere that it produced a global cooling that caused frosts in New England in the summer of 1816. The eruption at Krakatoa in 1883 wiped out more than 160 villages and killed at least 36,000 people. The explosion was so loud it was heard in Perth, Australia, thousands of miles away.
 The most enduring legacy of last month's tsunami may be the role of technology in providing relief. Because of the Internet, thousands of people were able to wire money to charities and aid agencies immediately. Ten years ago, it would have taken several days or weeks for checks to come in the mail. The prompt response shows that globalization can be a force for good. The challenge will be to ensure that the world remains focused on the recovery after the tragedy fades from the headlines. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); TSUNAMIS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); TOURISM (86%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); POLITICS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); INSURANCE (74%); INSURANCE POLICIES (74%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (74%); TRENDS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); MONEY SUPPLY (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); TERRORISM (63%); HOTELS & MOTELS (61%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); AGRICULTURE (50%); SARS (50%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); EPIDEMICS (50%) Earthquakes; Tsunamis; Economic Conditions and Trends; Computers and the Internet; Philanthropy; Earthquakes; Foreign Aid; Politics and Government

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%)

PERSON: David Hale

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) SUMATRA, INDONESIA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) INDONESIA (94%); THAILAND (94%); ASIA (93%); SRI LANKA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Indian Ocean; Aceh Province (Indonesia); Indonesia; Thailand

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2005



124 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Judge Says HUD Erred on Public Housing

BYLINE: By GARY GATELY

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
Black public housing tenants have been systematically consigned to segregated, poor neighborhoods of Baltimore City as a result of the policies of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, a federal judge concluded on Thursday.
 By not placing more public housing residents in suburban counties, HUD has failed to meet its obligations under the Fair Housing Act, Judge Marvin J. Garbis of Federal District Court ruled in a decade-old civil rights lawsuit.
 Judge Garbis's decision is the latest turn in nationwide efforts intended to reverse public housing policy that has historically sent public housing tenants to poor neighborhoods consisting of minority residents. 
 In the 322-page decision, Judge Garbis said HUD must adopt a ''regional approach'' to public housing that would disperse poor, black residents instead of concentrating them in city neighborhoods. 
 The decision came in a class-action lawsuit brought by the American Civil Liberties Union against HUD, the Baltimore Housing Authority and elected city officials. The suit, filed on behalf of 14,000 Baltimore public housing tenants, claimed local and federal government policies had created ''black ghettos.'' 
 Judge Garbis ruled that the plaintiffs did not prove their claim that the City of Baltimore had failed to take adequate steps to try to reverse the effects of previous race discrimination in public housing. 
 But the judge rebuked HUD for not ensuring public housing ''free from discrimination.''
 Speaking before a packed courtroom in downtown Baltimore, Judge Garbis said HUD has been ''effectively wearing blinders'' through its failure to provide more public housing beyond the city's boundaries. 
 ''It is high time that HUD live up to its statutory mandate'' and consider ''regional approaches to promoting fair housing opportunities for African-American public housing residents in the Baltimore region,'' Judge Garbis said.
 In his decision, the judge wrote, ''Baltimore City should not be viewed as an island reservation for use as a container for all of the poor of a contiguous region'' that includes surrounding counties.
 In Baltimore, the decision noted, 97 percent of public housing for families went to black families, mostly in poverty-stricken neighborhoods.
 In 2000, the judge said, the city was 64 percent black, while the Baltimore region, comprising the city and five suburban counties, was about 15 percent black. 
 As a result of a consent decree issued earlier in the A.C.L.U. case, Baltimore demolished numerous high-rise projects and replaced them with new housing in the 1990's. While praising those improvements, Judge Garbis said, ''There have not been significant opportunities for African-American residents of Baltimore City public housing to reside in racially mixed, rather than predominantly African-American, areas.''
 The case, the judge said, will now move to the ''remedial phase,'' in which the court will hear evidence and take action intended to ensure HUD officials adequately consider a regional approach to the desegregation of public housing in the Baltimore region.
 Lawyers for the plaintiffs, along with national housing and civil rights advocates, hailed the decision and said it underscores the importance of spreading public housing beyond the city. 
 ''The core of the case has been a failure of political will to locate public housing anywhere other than the poorest, blackest neighborhoods,'' said Andrew D. Freeman, a lawyer representing the A.C.L.U. HUD, Mr. Freeman said, is largely responsible for concentrating public housing in poor areas of the city and has an obligation to break the pattern by dispersing public housing. 
 Philip Tegeler, executive director of the Poverty and Race Research Action Council in Washington, said that in the 1990's the Clinton administration had settled 17 class-action complaints stemming from public housing discrimination claims, agreeing to create public housing outside of areas of minority concentration, allocate more housing vouchers to be used outside high-poverty areas and revitalize public housing. 
 William F. Ryan Jr., a lawyer representing Baltimore City, said the decision heartened him. ''Our position from the beginning was that the city has done everything it could over the last 50 years to provide good housing for its citizens,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''And the city needs all the help it can get from the federal government and other sectors.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Cherry Hill Homes in Baltimore is among the public housing complexes listed in a lawsuit against the city. (Photo by Steve Ruark for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HOUSING (97%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (94%); LITIGATION (92%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); CITIES (90%); JUDGES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); SUBURBS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); VERDICTS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); CLASS ACTIONS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%) Housing; Decisions and Verdicts; Suits and Litigation; Public Housing; Blacks; Law and Legislation; Housing

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (94%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (83%) Housing and Urban Development Department; American Civil Liberties Union

PERSON: Gary Gately; Marvin J (Judge) Garbis

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (94%) MARYLAND, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%) Baltimore (Md); United States

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2005



125 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; ASIA'S DEADLY WAVES: MUSLIM OPINION; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Once-Critical Indonesians Are Grateful to U.S. for Aid

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
The United States military's huge relief effort for tsunami victims in South Asia is producing something of a political upheaval here, in the world's most populous Muslim country: America is being praised, even by some of its harshest critics, while Arab countries are being questioned.
 ''I am getting messages from friends saying, 'Why have the Muslim countries been so slow and stingy?''' said Goenawan Mohamad, one of the country's leading intellectuals. 
 Washington's campaign against terrorism, its staunch support of Israel and its occupation of Iraq have been widely interpreted by Indonesians as a war on Islam, and the Bush administration's various efforts to influence public opinion have failed to counter that impression. The American military came in for particular criticism in the Muslim world, after the shocking and continuing revelations of prisoner abuse at Abu Ghraib and elsewhere. 
 All of that contributed to a sharp decline in America's image here in the years after Sept. 11, 2001, when Indonesians generally expressed solidarity with the United States. Before the tsunami struck, only some 15 percent of Indonesians had a favorable view of the United States, down from around 65 percent a few years ago.
 Now, though, Indonesians are comparing the small amounts that have been offered by Arab countries with the hundreds of millions offered by the United States, Australia, Europe, Japan and China, said Mr. Mohamad, who like most Indonesians opposed the American invasion of Iraq. 
 A few days ago Koran Tempo, one of the country's major daily newspapers, published a reader's letter asking various radical Islamic organizations here why they were not helping in Aceh. ''Don't only work through violence,'' the writer said. ''Use your money to help, not just to buy equipment to hurt people.''
 The best news for Washington, though, may be no news: the absence of criticism among radical Islamic groups, even of the presence of American soldiers on Indonesian soil. A few weeks ago the mere suggestion of such a thing would have provoked demonstrations. 
 ''That's a surprise, really,'' Dino Djalal, a spokesman for President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, said about the silence of the radicals.
 American soldiers delivering aid have been featured on the front pages of newspapers and on television, in praise not condemnation. But the American honeymoon may prove short, and some cautionary notes were sounded Thursday.
 The American troops have shown themselves to be ''very sweet and humane,'' wrote Irfan Junaidi, a columnist in Republika, an Islamic newspaper. ''There's nothing wrong with that,'' he continued, but then asked whether this picture of American humanitarianism bore any relation to American foreign policy, especially in Iraq.
 For the moment, Indonesia's international image has gained from the attention brought in the aftermath of the destruction. Since the terrorist attack on Bali nightclubs in October 2002, the United States, Australia and other countries have issued travel advisories warning their citizens about terrorist dangers here. The warnings have hurt the country economically, keeping tourists away in great numbers.
 Just three weeks ago, Australia issued one of the most alarming travel warnings, saying it had specific intelligence that terrorists were planning attacks over the Christmas period. It urged its citizens here to leave, and Qantas took the warning so seriously that its airline crews stopped spending the night in Jakarta hotels. 
 The Australian warning specifically mentioned the Hilton Hotel as a place of a possible attack.
 Yet on Thursday, all of the world leaders who have arrived here for the relief effort -- Secretary of State Colin L. Powell; Prime Ministers John Howard of Australia, Wen Jiabao of China and Junichiro Koizumi of Japan; Foreign Secretary Jack Straw of Britain; Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations; the president of the World Bank, James D. Wolfensohn; and a score of aides, ambassadors and senior officials -- were gathered in a conference center here in the shadows of the Hilton.
 Indonesians are not basically anti-American, Mr. Mohamad said. Indeed, while the Islamic extremists can be loud and violent, they account for only a tiny minority, and most Indonesians practice a moderate strain of Islam.
 But whether the good feelings generated by America's relief effort will be enough to overcome the resentment built up over the last several years is a good question, Mr. Mohamad said. ''The criticism will remain, but the sting will be less,'' he suggested. 
 It has helped that President Bush brought out his father and former President Bill Clinton to raise money for the relief effort, Mr. Mohamad said. ''It deflects attention from Bush Jr., who is not the most popular person in the world.''
 Rachmat Witolear, a longtime force in one of the country's largest political parties, Golkar, and the current environment minister, agreed that the relief assistance would improve America's standing here. But how much will depend on how President Bush acts, he said.
 ''It's a good initiative,'' Mr. Witolear said. ''But still he has to be careful because the prevailing view of him being arrogant is still there.''
 The views about the United States assistance are not all positive. Some Indonesians are still smarting over the fact that the Bush administration was slow to respond and at first offered only $15 million. It was only after being criticized by the United Nations, and after other countries had come forth with large pledges, that the United States increased its aid to $350 million, said Nasrul Haq, chairman of the student body at Padjajaran University in Bandung. 
 ''It looks like they are concerned about their ego, that the United States as a superpower doesn't want anyone to beat them,'' he said in a telephone interview.
 Still, as Mr. Mohamad said, on the whole the feeling is good. ''I hope it will last,'' he added.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Greatest Needs''The United Nations has broken down by country how it would allocate money for emergency needs. These categories have been targeted for the most funding:FOOD AND HEALTH NEEDS:Indonesia: $72,610,000Maldives: $10,605,000Seychelles: --Somalia: $2,144,220Sri Lanka: $28,600,000COORDINATION, SUPPORT SERVICES:Indonesia: $14,854,203Maldives: $7,460,000Seychelles: $300,000Somalia: $5,401,369Sri Lanka: $21,159,491ECONOMIC RECOVERY, INFRASTRUCTURE:Indonesia: $17,250,000Maldives: $11,652,000Seychelles: $7,500,000Somalia: --Sri Lanka: $48,960,475FAMILY SHELTER AND NON-FOOD ITEMS:Indonesia: $177,160,000Maldives: $19,100,000Seychelles: $1,100,000Somalia: $496,000Sri Lanka: $23,160,000 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TSUNAMIS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); RELIGION (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); WRITERS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); TERRORISM (73%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); COUNTERTERRORISM (55%) Earthquakes; Foreign Aid ; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Earthquakes; Public Opinion; Tsunamis

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%)

PERSON: SUSILO BAMBANG YUDHOYONO (50%) Raymond Bonner

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (57%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); INDONESIA (95%); SEYCHELLES (94%); MALDIVES (94%); ASIA (93%); IRAQ (93%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); JAPAN (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (73%) Indonesia; Australia; Europe; Japan; China; Middle East; Indian Ocean; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2005



126 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Pension Agency Is About to Get A Rescue Plan

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
With the federal pension insurance program in a rapid decline and bracing itself for another year of record losses, officials in the Bush administration are close to unveiling a rescue plan -- medicine they hope will be strong enough to save the agency from a costly bailout but not so strong that it kills the pension system.
 The program, under the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, insures pensions in case of a failure, much the way the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation guarantees bank deposits when a bank fails. It has gone from an $8 billion surplus in 2001 to a $23 billion deficit in 2004, raising questions about its long-term ability to pay retirees their pensions. 
 Much of the recent loss stems from the months-long process of taking over the failing pension plans at United Airlines and US Airways, which are underfunded by billions of dollars. And many experts fear that those failures will set off a slow but inexorable chain reaction at other airlines, one that could eventually overwhelm the pension agency. 
 ''The longer we wait, the closer we get to the cliff edge, where a massive taxpayer rescue would be necessary,'' said Douglas J. Elliott, president of the Center on Federal Financial Institutions, a research institute that studies government lending and insurance programs. 
 Elements of the coming rescue plan have been floated by administration officials in recent public speeches and at professional gatherings, like one being held for Congressional staff members this weekend. Critical measures include charging higher insurance premiums to companies that pose greater risks to the pension program, tightening the funding rules and requiring companies to give employees more information about the health of their pension plans. 
 Achieving most of these measures will require Congressional action. Those close to the planning process expect the details to be disclosed sometime next week.
 Each element of the plan would have a different effect on the pension agency's fortunes. Raising the insurance premiums would be the fastest way to shore up the agency's finances, for instance, but would do little to address the broader problems that are causing pension plans to fail and land on the agency's doorstep in the first place. 
 Improved disclosure, meanwhile, would have little direct effect on the pension agency. But administration officials say it would strengthen the system over all, because if participants knew that their retirement money was at risk, they might take steps to protect themselves -- like changing to more reliable employers or demanding bigger contributions to the plan.
 The most direct source of new money for the pension agency would be a premium increase. The basic rate has not changed since 1991, when companies that run pension plans began to be billed $19 annually per participant. The premiums rise when pension plans develop big deficits, but economists say that even then, the amounts are far too low to cover the risks.
 Some specialists say the government should charge higher premiums to companies that run riskier pension plans, much as insurance companies charge bad drivers higher rates. Such a shift would reward companies that managed their pension plans responsibly.
 Measuring a pension plan's risk is complex, but people who have participated in the planning talks say the sponsoring company's credit rating could be used as a proxy. A robust company with enough money to pay its bondholders would presumably have enough money to make good on its pension obligations as well, the thinking goes. 
 Using a published credit rating would also bring an element of market discipline to the pension insurance process, rather than leaving it up to Congress to set the premium rates.
 Another important component of risk is the way companies invest the money in their pension funds. A portfolio of junk bonds, hedge funds or high-risk stocks obviously poses a greater risk to the pension program than a portfolio of high-grade bonds. The administration has also been thinking about factoring portfolio risk into its premiums, but appears to have run into opposition from business and investment interests who say the government has no business telling companies how to invest. Officials may eventually settle for indirect methods of encouraging conservative investments.
 James Klein, president of the American Benefits Council, a business organization, said companies were willing to consider a change in the premium structure.
 Mr. Klein, whose group represents large and medium-size companies, said his members were more preoccupied with prospective changes in the funding rules. 
 ''Some changes to the funding rules would seem to be inevitable,'' he said.
 Virtually everybody with an interest in pensions agrees that the funding rules are flawed, but there is little agreement on how to fix them. The rules are supposed to make sure that companies set aside enough money each year to pay their future obligations. But the succession of plans that have failed shows the rules are not foolproof. And, meanwhile, companies say the rules are needlessly complex and fraught with tripwires that can suddenly force them to make huge contributions -- usually when they can least afford it.
 Before making any other changes, the administration appears determined to make sure that companies measure their pension obligations more accurately than they have been.
 The administration has also been developing plans to apply tighter funding rules to companies that pose larger risks, according to people involved in the discussions. Again, a company's own creditworthiness might, in part, determine the risk in its pension plan. 
 The administration also hopes to make companies freeze their pension plans when they are in bankruptcy.
 To improve disclosure, the administration has suggested a new rule requiring companies to tell their employees about the health of their pension plans every year, using two measurements. One would describe how well funded the plan appears to be as it continues into the future; the other would describe how well funded it would be if it were terminated right away. 
 Companies owe workers information about their pensions, Mr. Klein of the benefits council said, but he added that it would not be useful to force the companies to provide figures that might alarm or confuse their employees. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); CORPORATE GIVING (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Records and Achievements; Airlines and Airplanes; Pensions and Retirement Plans

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (83%); PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (72%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp; United Airlines; US Airways; Ual Corp

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%)

PERSON: Mary Williams Walsh; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2005



127 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rebound Modestly After 3 Days of Declines

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street had a mild rebound yesterday after three losing sessions, as investors sent stocks mostly higher amid a sharp rise in unemployment claims and mixed holiday retail sales reports. Only the Nasdaq composite index posted a small loss.
 Shares fluctuated as the Labor Department reported that weekly first-time jobless claims rose to 364,000 last week, up from 321,000 the week before -- the sharpest rise in nearly three years. 
 Whether the gains can set a new direction for short-term trading remains to be seen, as the Labor Department was expected to release today its monthly job creation report, a barometer of the labor market and the nation's economic health.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 25.05 points, or 0.2 percent, to 10,622.88. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 4.15 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,187.89, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 1.24 points, or 0.06 percent, to 2,090.00.
 Today's job report will go a long way in determining whether the losses in the three previous sessions will be a short correction or a longer-term trend. While some pullback was expected after the strong finish to 2004, the market was unnerved by the prospect of higher rates, and any attempts to resume Wall Street's postelection rally have met with strong resistance.
 ''I think investors are definitely waiting to see what the jobs report looks like, and then on Monday we're already into earnings season,'' said Jeff Kleintop, chief investment strategist for PNC Financial Services Group in Philadelphia. ''There's a lot of wait-and-see going on with regards to jobs, earnings, the dollar, oil prices -- you name it.''
 Investors kept a close eye on the retail sector as companies issued their sales reports from a mediocre holiday season. Wal-Mart Stores was up 76 cents, to $54.05, after it confirmed that same-store sales -- sales from stores open at least a year -- rose 3 percent from a year ago.
 At Federated Department Stores, same-store sales rose 2.3 percent in December. J.C. Penney said its sales fell 1.2 percent, less than Wall Street had forecast. Shares of Federated slipped 2 cents, to $57.20, while J.C. Penney gained 11 cents, to $40.78.
 Three retailers reduced their fourth-quarter profit forecasts after sales slumped over the holidays. Pier 1 Imports, the home decor outlet, fell 39 cents, to $18.36; Claire's Stores, the teen accessory retailer, lost 57 cents to $20.10; and Charming Shoppes, the parent of Lane Bryant and Fashion Bug, skidded 94 cents, to $8.30.
 National Semiconductor said it would cut 550 jobs as it streamlines its manufacturing operations, resulting in one-time charges of up to $26 million in severance and expenses. The chip maker also was upgraded to neutral from underperform by Credit Suisse First Boston. National Semiconductor gained 19 cents, to $17.07.
 Wall Street's recent penchant for mergers and acquisitions continued as Alltel was reportedly in talks to acquire Western Wireless for $4 billion. Alltel dropped $2, to $56, while Western Wireless surged $4.70, or 15.16 percent, to $35.70.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note gained 6/32, to a price of 9929/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.26 percent from 4.28 percent on Wednesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BONDS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (58%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (53%); WAL-MART STORES INC (52%); PIER 1 IMPORTS INC (51%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (50%); CLAIRE'S STORES INC (50%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (58%); PNC (NYSE) (53%); WMT (NYSE) (52%); PIR (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (52%); NAICS453998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS STORE RETAILERS (EXCEPT TOBACCO STORES) (51%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (51%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (51%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (51%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (51%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (50%); NAICS448150 CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); SIC5632 WOMEN'S ACCESSORY & SPECIALTY STORES (50%); SIC2389 APPAREL & ACCESSORIES, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2005



128 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: SUNY Plan Limits Increases In Tuition

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
The chancellor of the State University of New York proposed sweeping changes yesterday in the way the university sets its tuition, guaranteeing that each class of entering students would not face tuition increases for four years, beginning this fall.
 Tuition for each subsequent class would be linked to increases in an index of higher education prices, an index that has risen faster than the Consumer Price Index in recent years but more slowly than tuition at most American colleges and universities. 
 The chancellor, Robert L. King, said that freezing tuition for each incoming class and then indexing increases for new students would ensure that students would not be hit by large, erratic tuition increases. 
 If SUNY adopts such a plan, it will be one of a small but growing number of universities that are taking this approach to make college costs more predictable. The state of Illinois began using such a program at its public colleges last year, and other states have expressed interest. 
 The SUNY plan, however, would require a significant change in state law and in the way New York has financed its public universities for half a century. 
 SUNY is subject to the vicissitudes of the state budgeting process, and legislators effectively control tuition at SUNY's state-operated four-year colleges and at the four-year campuses of the City University of New York. 
 Mr. King, who presented the plan to the SUNY board's finance committee yesterday, said he also wanted a $600 increase in next fall's tuition, raising it to $4,950. In 2003, after eight years without any increases, SUNY raised undergraduate tuition by 28 percent, or $950, to $4,350.
 The proposed tuition plan is conditioned on a commitment by the state to give the university the same operating budget each year plus a supplement to cover increases in faculty compensation and in energy costs.
 ''The government needs to do its part,'' said Mr. King, who formerly served as budget director for Gov. George E. Pataki. Mr. King said that he had found Mr. Pataki, a Republican, ''enthusiastic.'' 
 ''I think there is a new willingness emerging, at least on the Senate side, to a proposal like this,'' Mr. King said, referring to the Republican-controlled chamber. ''I am hopeful that the Assembly will be interested, too.''
 Kevin Quinn, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki, said that the governor's office would have to review the proposal, but that the governor was ''a strong supporter of ensuring affordable access to our public colleges and universities.'' But Assemblyman Ron Canestrari, an Albany-area Democrat who is chairman of the Higher Education Committee, called the plan ''outrageous'' and said it was ''just a further indication of a trend to push more of the cost of public higher education onto students and forgo state responsibility.''
 ''Certainly I can see the goal of having some predictability of tuition, both for the students and the schools,'' he said. ''But the only predictability here is that the students will pay more into the horizon.'' 
 At the University of Illinois, Chester S. Gardner, vice president for academic affairs, said the plan imposed by his state's legislature, which locks in tuition for each incoming class, had to some degree limited universities' financial flexibility. But, he said: ''In my opinion, the advantage to students is worth that loss in flexibility. We administrators must simply manage resources so that we can address inevitable cost increases, and at the University of Illinois we are.'' 
 Mr. King's proposal differs somewhat from the Illinois plan in that he would condition the locked-in tuition rate on a guarantee of a certain level of state aid. But he said that even with a $600 tuition increase in the fall, SUNY's tuition would still compare favorably to that at public universities in New England and the mid-Atlantic region.
 Tuition and fees at four-year public universities averaged $6,300 in the 2004-2005 academic year in the Middle States region, which includes New York, according to the College Board's annual survey, and $6,839 in New England. Average tuition and fees at SUNY's state-operated four-year colleges this academic year, including average campus fees of $900, are $5,250.
 A CUNY spokesman, Jay Hershenson, said yesterday that CUNY would not offer a tuition proposal until after the governor presented his executive budget.
 Mr. King said that had his plan been adopted in 1995, SUNY's tuition would have ended up close to the $4,950 he proposed yesterday. But he said that was a coincidence, and that SUNY had not figured out what tuition would have been until asked by a reporter yesterday. He said he did not know how the plan would have affected tuition revenues during the 10-year period.
 Reaction at the SUNY board's finance committee meeting yesterday was almost uniformly positive.
 Thomas J. Schwarz, president of SUNY College at Purchase, was one of several SUNY presidents who said the proposal would be a huge improvement. He said the current system of waiting for the state budget created ''planned mayhem.'' The King proposal, Mr. Schwarz said, ''allows us to operate like a well-run private institution, and we will know where we are.''
 William E. Scheuerman, president of United University Professions, the faculty and staff union, called the King proposal ''terrific in principle'' and said it would bring stability and predictability to university planning.
 And Stephanie Gross, a student trustee and the president of SUNY's student government, said that she wholeheartedly supported the idea of freezing tuition, but that it would be ''in very bad faith'' to start with a $600 tuition increase next year.
 In another change that would require legislative approval, the King proposal would allow undergraduate tuition at its four research university campuses -- Albany, Binghamton, Buffalo and Stony Brook -- to rise faster than at its other four-year colleges; currently, tuition at all the campuses must be the same. Tuition at the comprehensive colleges would be allowed to rise at the same rate as the index of higher education prices; tuition at the four research universities would be allowed to climb at 150 percent of that index -- known as HEPI -- but could never be more than 50 percent higher than tuition at the other four-year campuses.
 The proposed changes would not apply to students from outside New York, who pay higher tuition, currently $10,300, or to part-time students or those at its community colleges.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Rising in Fits and Starts''Tuition at the State University of New York has often remained unchanged for several years before major increases.Graph tracks amount spent on tuition at the State University of New York since 1975.Tuition adjusted for inflation(Source by State University of New York)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (95%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (93%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (72%) Colleges and Universities; Tuition ; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: State University of New York

PERSON: Karen W Arenson; Robert L (Chancellor) King

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2005



129 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 16858 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy Broadway and Off Broadway shows this weekend. Approximate running times are in parentheses. * denotes a highly recommended show.
+ means discounted tickets were available at the Theater Development Fund's TKTS booth for performances last Friday and Saturday nights.
++ means discounted tickets were available at the TKTS booth for last Saturday night. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/theater.

Theater

Broadway

+ 'BROOKLYN THE MUSICAL.' The enterprising design team of Mark Schoenfeld and Barri McPherson's aggressively maudlin show has come up with all sorts of ideas for converting everyday urban detritus into glamorous props and accessories, from traffic cones into megaphones to garbage bags into evening gowns. But the whole production, directed by Jeff Calhoun, is a kind of cultural recycling of discarded showbiz forms. An urban fairy tale told by street singers, ''Brooklyn'' is a throwback to the simple and whimsy-laden little musicals that blossomed off Broadway several decades ago. Try to imagine a sanitized ''Hair'' or a secular ''Godspell,'' with a helping of funky 70's disco, all filtered through the throat-stretching vocal pyrotechnics of ''American Idol.'' If that hybrid appeals to you, you're welcome to it. If not, you may find yourself feeling like a cranky commuter in a subway car, trapped with a perky team of harmonizers who say they just want to leave you with a smile on your face (1:45). Plymouth, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m. Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $25 to $96.25.
BEN BRANTLEY

++ 'LA CAGE AUX FOLLES.' This alternately pallid and garish revival of the 1983 musical, with songs by Jerry Herman and a book by Harvey Fierstein, comes to life only when its cross-dressing chorus line takes over. This story of a gay couple who run a nightclub in St.-Tropez has two bright stars in Daniel Davis (as the manly part of the couple) and the wonderful but slightly miscast Gary Beach (as the womanly one). But Jerry Zaks's production often gives the impression of merely going through the motions, amiably but robotically, of its gag-laden, sentimental plot. What makes ''La Cage'' worth visiting for people whose diet does not include canned corn and packaged sugar is the plumed and spangled all-male ensemble of dancers. Each one emerges as a saucy individual, and as a team they have been choreographed by Jerry Mitchell with a feisty sense of humor and an athletic verve that should make Arnold Schwarzenegger think twice about using ''girly men'' as a pejorative term (2:30). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, between 45th and 46th Streets, (212) 307-4100. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $25 to $100.
BRANTLEY

*++ 'DAME EDNA: BACK WITH A VENGEANCE!' It was nearly a half-century ago that Edna Everage (damehood still awaited her) was invented by a young Australian drama student named Barry Humphries, whose body the mauve-haired entertainer continues to take over for public appearances. Rather like the plant in ''The Little Shop of Horrors,'' the initially blowsy Edna kept becoming larger, glitzier and hungrier as she fed on the adulation of fans over the years. As her exhaustingly funny new show makes clear, that growth process hasn't stopped. When she last appeared on Broadway five years ago, she was merely a megastar, Dame Edna condescendingly tells her audience; now she is ''a glittering gigastar.'' In this singing, dancing shrine to herself, she proves it by brilliantly exploiting our culture's masochistic obsession with the rich and famous (2:30). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $67.50 to $87.50.
BRANTLEY

*++ 'DEMOCRACY.' Michael Frayn's glorious study of the mutations of politics and the men who practice it, directed by Michael Blakemore, is one of those rare dramas that don't just dare to think big but that fully translate their high aspirations to the stage, with sharp style and thrilling clarity. For New York theatergoers who have endured the recent spate of dutiful revivals and misconceived star vehicles, watching this gripping study of the fraught glory years of Chancellor Willy Brandt of West Germany and the spy who loved him is like riding a wave after dog paddling in shallow waters (2:30). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (212) 307-4100. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $60 to $95.
BRANTLEY

++ 'GEM OF THE OCEAN.' Theatergoers who have followed the work of August Wilson will find in this grandly evangelical drama a touchstone for his great cycle of plays chronicling the African-American experience in the 20th century. Set in 1904 in Pittsburgh, ''Gem'' is chronologically the first chapter in the cycle. As such, it is a swelling overture of things to come, a battle hymn for an inchoate republic of men and women just beginning to discover the price of freedom. It is also the least dramatically involving of Mr. Wilson's plays. Directed by Kenny Leon, with a strong cast led by Phylicia Rashad as a former slave who is more than 280 years old, ''Gem'' has passages of transporting beauty. But the metaphorical resonance of events and relationships eclipses dramatic immediacy here (2:30). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m. Tickets: $25 to $86.
BRANTLEY

++ 'PACIFIC OVERTURES.' The director Amon Miyamoto dazzled New Yorkers at the Lincoln Center Festival two years ago with his visiting Japanese-language production of Stephen Sondheim and John Weidman's 1976 musical about American gunboat diplomacy as visited on 19th-century Japan. Now Mr. Miyamoto has revisited the show with an English-speaking, predominantly Asian-American cast, including B. D. Wong as the wryly omniscient narrator. The show's scenic and conceptual elements are essentially the same. including the amusing representation of Commodore Perry as a feral barbarian. But something has definitely been lost in the retranslation. The production does give beguiling due to Mr. Sondheim's silken, silvery score with orchestrations by Jonathan Tunick. But an uneasy tentativeness pervades the stage like a mist of perspiration (2:30). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 p.m. Tickets: $36.25 to $91.25.
BRANTLEY

+ 'THE RIVALS.' Here she is at last! Dear old Mrs. Malaprop! The delightful Mrs. M, who, with a disdainful nod to Richard Brinsley Sheridan, misspoke her way to immortality in the pages of the Oxford English Dictionary. You know the word, you've probably made the mistake, and now, courtesy of the new Broadway revival of ''The Rivals,'' Sheridan's celebrated 1775 comedy of manners, you can finally make the acquaintance of the famous dame who generously bequeathed her name to a linguistic error. As personified by Dana Ivey, an actress of blissfully well-honed comic instincts, Mrs. Malaprop is indeed the main event in Mark Lamos's plumply upholstered production. But despite a largely zesty cast and a first-class production, the uncomfortable truth is Sheridan's comedy is one of those approved-and-certified classics that require unexpected reserves of patience and fortitude. Intermittently adorable, it is also, and not infrequently, tedious (2:30). Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; and Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $55 to $85.
CHARLES ISHERWOOD

'700 SUNDAYS.' This one-man memoir of a play by Billy Crystal, the beloved comic actor and perennial Oscar host, has been carefully set up to suggest a night of home movies with a buddy from your high school days who is equal parts attention-grabbing showoff and softhearted sweetie pie. In resurrecting the boy he was and the parents who made him the man he is, Mr. Crystal does indeed show flickering faded films from his childhood, projected onto the windows of a replica of the house on Long Island where he spent his youth. You would be hard-pressed to find a Broadway show with a more artfully calculated comfort factor. Directed by Des McAnuff, ''700 Sundays'' makes the characters in Neil Simon's domestic comedies look as tortured as figures out of Eugene O'Neill. And Mr. Crystal has a way of making even the ostensibly exotic feel as wholesome as apple blintzes (2:20). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200 Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m. Tickets: $71.25 to $91.25; extremely limited.
BRANTLEY

*'TWELVE ANGRY MEN.' This stage adaptation of Reginald Rose's celebrated television drama from 1954 (made into a film in 1957) suggests that sometimes the best way to present a fossil is just to polish it up and put it on display without disguise, annotation or apology. As a tidy portrait of clashing social attitudes in a jury room, it definitely creaks with age. But somehow the creaks begin to sound like soothing music, a siren song from a period of American drama when personalities were drawn in clean lines, the moral was unmistakable and the elements of a plot clicked together like a jigsaw puzzle without a single missing piece. Even those who like their theater hip and cerebral might want to lower their eyebrows for this 90-minute production. With an ensemble that includes Boyd Gaines, Philip Bosco, Mark Blum and Peter Friedman, this is a showcase for some of New York's finest character actors, who all manage to chew the scenery without smacking their lips (1:30). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays at 2 p.m. Tickets: $46.25 to $86.25.
BRANTLEY

'WHOOPI.' Whoopi Goldberg has been working in Hollywood for two decades now. Presumably she has met a lot of directors out there. But scan the program for Ms. Goldberg's solo show, which has returned to Broadway for a 20th-anniversary engagement, and you'll find none listed. This movie star and television personality has chosen to dispense with one in remounting her collection of monologues, just as she did when this career-igniting show made its debut on Broadway. Twenty years ago the omission could be forgiven as the boundless confidence of a bright young talent. At 49 Ms. Goldberg is an established performer and the oversight looks more like folly. Ms. Goldberg's most ardent fans may be happy to make the acquaintance of the half-dozen characters she portrays here. But even the funniest monologues would benefit from judicious editing (1:30). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 7 and 10 p.m.; Sundays at 3 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $26.25 to $76.25.
ISHERWOOD

*+ 'WONDERFUL TOWN.' (Tony winner for choreography). Standing on high heels that transform her into the tallest, most self-conscious figure onstage and mugging with the rubbery animation of Desilu-vintage Lucille Ball, Brooke Shields is game, gawky, a little unsteady and supremely likable as Ruth Sherwood, the man-scaring writer from Ohio who arrives in Manhattan in 1935 as green as a spring tomato. In this delicious revival of the 1953 musical, Ms. Shields is an unexpected and unpretentious delight, adding a goofy sweetness to a production whose charms have only mellowed since it opened last fall. No, she doesn't rival the impeccable polish of her predecessor, Donna Murphy. But Ms. Shields appealingly emphasizes the inner naif of a character whose worldly sophistication keeps slipping off like an ill-fitting cocktail hat. Leonard Bernstein's happiest score is played as ravishingly as ever by the onstage orchestra. And the crackerjack supporting cast includes the appealingly relaxed Gregg Edelman and the honey-voiced Jennifer Hope Wills, as Ruth's luscious sister, Eileen (2:30). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $51 and $101.
BRANTLEY

Off Broadway

+ 'THE BALTIMORE WALTZ.' Paula Vogel is indisputably the author of ''The Baltimore Waltz,'' but a decade of collective grief, rage and confusion surely played a part in its authorship, too. Ms. Vogel began work on the play shortly after her brother's death from AIDS in 1988. It was a deeply personal, even idiosyncratic expression of sorrow and love. But in the dozen years since its premiere at Circle Repertory, emotion surrounding the AIDS epidemic has inevitably cooled, and the play now must stand up to less emotionally inflected scrutiny. Sadly, on the evidence of Mark Brokaw's smart but dry production, the second in the Signature Theater's season devoted to Ms. Vogel's work, it mostly sags. This is partly due to a crucial piece of miscasting. Kristen Johnston is a talented actress, but she doesn't do poignancy convincingly. She makes all the right noises, but the submerged emotional charge that should bind the jumbled gambits of Ms. Vogel's comedy never fully emerges (1:25). Signature's Peter Norton Space, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $55.
ISHERWOOD

* 'DOUBT, A PARABLE.' This tight, absorbing and expertly acted play by John Patrick Shanley is far more complex than surface descriptions might suggest. Set in the Bronx in 1964, it is structured as a clash of wills and generations between Sister Aloysius (Cherry Jones), the head of a parochial school, and Father Flynn (Brian F. O'Byrne), the young priest who may or may not be too fond of the boys in his charge. The play's balance of conflicting viewpoints, its austere institutional setting and its sensational front-page subject at first bring to mind those tidy topical melodramas of truth and falsehood that were once so popular. But Mr. Shanley makes subversive use of musty conventions. ''Doubt'' hews closely to its reassuringly sturdy, familiar form, the better to explore aspects of thought and personality that are anything but solid. And under the eloquently reserved direction of Doug Hughes, Ms. Jones and Mr. O'Byrne, both superb, find startling precision in ambiguity (1:30). Manhattan Theater Club, at New York City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $60.
BRANTLEY

'FAT PIG.' Neil LaBute's latest work is on one level yet another demonstration that men are paragons of bad faith and cowardice, a judgmental tradition that this writer established with his screenplay for ''In the Company of Men.'' Yet ''Fat Pig,'' directed by Jo Bonney, is also the most emotionally engaging and unsettling of Mr. LaBute's plays since ''Bash'' five years ago. A show that might have been merely a point-proving exercise is immeasurably enriched by Mr. LaBute's empathy and by the skill and honesty of Jeremey Piven (of ''The Entourage'' on HBO) as a charming rising executive, and Ashlie Atkinson, the overweight woman he falls for. Andrew McCarthy and Keri Russell (late of ''Felicity'') round out the taut ensemble (1:40). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 279-4200. Mondays and Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2:30 and 8 p.m. Tickets: $50.
BRANTLEY

*++ 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT.' Gerard Alessandrini, the writer and creator of the 22-year-old ''Forbidden Broadway'' series of satirical revues, would seem to be as steamed-up and homicidal as Dirty Harry in a den of crooked cops. This means he is in particularly good form. The New York theater's favorite practitioner of tough love has put on the brass knuckles for this round. The production features the expected caricatures of ego-driven singing stars (Patti LuPone, Hugh Jackman). But even more than usual, the show offers an acute list of grievances about the sickly state of the Broadway musical, where, as Mr. Alessandrini's lyrics have it, ''everything old is old again'' (1:45). Douglas Fairbanks Theater, 432 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. Mondays, Tuesdays, Fridays and Saturdays at 8:15 p.m.; Wednesdays at 2:30 p.m.; Saturdays at 4 p.m.; Sundays at 3:30 and 7:30 p.m. Tickets: $49.50 to $57.
BRANTLEY

++ 'JEWTOPIA.' In a word, oy. Actually, even that small but spectacularly useful Yiddish word, with its infinite capacity for inflection, won't suffice to register the proper dismay at this slapdash, feeble-witted comedy. Written by and starring Bryan Fogel and Sam Wolfson, the cheerfully vulgar ''Jewtopia'' is aimed squarely at Jewish audiences not above indulging in a little lowbrow ribbing of their common ground. Make that a lot of lowbrow ribbing, most of it is about as fresh as a kugel from last year's Seder. Mr. Fogel and Mr. Wolfson flail away at hoary old stereotypes with a lack of ingenuity and a coarseness that are as numbing as they are dispiriting. The director John Tillinger, hired to polish the production for its New York engagement (it ran for more than a year in Los Angeles), has done little to tame its tacky excesses or shore up its slipshod construction (2:00). Westside Theater (Downstairs), 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $59.50 for Tuesdays through Thursdays; $65 for Fridays through Sundays.
ISHERWOOD

*++ 'NINE PARTS OF DESIRE.' The voices are a study in contrasts: vivid and subdued, sophisticated and naive, seductive and standoffish. But they cohere to form a powerful collective portrait of suffering and endurance in Heather Raffo's impassioned theatrical documentary about the lives of contemporary Iraqi women. A solo piece written and performed by Ms. Raffo, an actress of Iraqi and American heritage, the play is a welcome reminder that the costs of tyranny and violent conflict are borne not by some amorphous, insentient collective population but by individuals, in this case women whose lives have been frayed and fractured, sometimes beyond repair, by the tortured history of their country (1:30). Manhattan Ensemble Theater, 55 Mercer Street, SoHo, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $55; limited number of $20 student rush tickets available at box office one hour before the show.
ISHERWOOD

* 'A NUMBER.' Since the 1970's, Caryl Churchill has produced studies of a world quaking under constant siege in which style somehow always uniquely mirrors content. In this stunning, elliptical play about a father's experiment with genetic engineering, this invaluable dramatist considers a threat to the very cornerstone of Western civilization since the Renaissance: the idea of human individuality, a subject she manages to probe in depth in a mere 62 minutes of spartan sentences and silences. Every word, gesture and pause in this dramatic fugue for two actors -- meticulously directed by James MacDonald and performed by Sam Shepard (yep, that one) and Dallas Roberts -- sets off echoes of multiple meaning. The play trenchantly makes the point that we no longer have the apparatus, verbal or psychological, to accommodate the changes in a time when science is moving faster than society. It is hard to think of another contemporary playwright who combines such economy of means and breadth of imagination (1:05). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $65.
BRANTLEY

'A SECOND HAND MEMORY.' Woody Allen's unrelentingly glum new play at the Atlantic Theater Company is a drama about two generations of defeated dreamers in 1950's Brooklyn. As the play opens, Eddie Wolfe (Nicky Katt) has been called home from Hollywood to help turn around the family jewelry business, for which he never had much affection. Eddie has an unwanted new wife and a baby on the way, but his permanently darkened brow telegraphs despair and a burning desire to escape. Eddie's moral quandary -- should he stay or should he go? -- generates little suspense. The actors provide some leavening warmth, but it's hard to escape the feeling that Mr. Allen's characters are simply serving out their sentences, railing against an unjust fate by incessantly flailing away at one another (2:15). Atlantic Theater Company, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 and 7:30 p.m. Tickets: $60.
ISHERWOOD

*++ 'SLAVA'S SNOWSHOW.' A giggle of clowns chosen by the Russian master Slava Polunin is stirring up laughter and enjoyment at the Union Square Theater. As audiences shuffle in through the snowlike rectangles of white paper that blanket the floor and seats, prompting immediate attempts at artificial snowball throwing, this show announces itself as something unusual. And so it is. Before the night is over, in a show that touches the heart as well as tickles the funnybone, members of the audience are likely to find themselves covered by a giant cobweb, spritzed with water, providing a lap for a wandering clown and stung by the snow of the title. (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (212) 307-4100. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 4 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 and 5:30 p.m. Tickets $59.90 to $64.90.
LAWRENCE VAN GELDER

+ 'WHITE CHOCOLATE.' Think of it as ''Black Like Moi.'' William Hamilton's play about a rich white couple who wake up to discover they've turned black is a shrill, sporadically funny situation comedy that is at heart nothing more than its central situation. Mr. Hamilton is famous for his cartoons in The New Yorker, which portray willowy, patrician figures poised over cocktails and crudites. Throughout ''White Chocolate,'' which is directed by David Schweizer as if it were a traffic jam, there are sharp, shiny lines that might work as captions for Hamilton cartoons. But they are lines that tell you less about character than class. And as a comedy of social identity, ''White Chocolate'' never looks far beneath the veneers it pretends to be peeling away. With Lynn Whitfield and Reg E. Cathey as the transformed spouses (2:15). Century Center for the Performing Arts, 111 East 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $55 to $60.
BRANTLEY

Last Chance

+ 'BELLE EPOQUE.' The epoque doesn't seem so very belle in Martha Clarke and Charles L. Mee's ambitious attempt to distill onstage the seedy, absinthe-tinted glamour that Toulouse-Lautrec captured in oils and pastels in late 19th-century Paris. Mark Povinelli, an actor whose small stature belies a sizable force, plays Toulouse-Lautrec. He is surrounded by an eccentric array of performers who plied their trade in the clubs of Montmartre. With the aid of Jane Greenwood's plush, gorgeously detailed costumes and Christopher Akerlind's invigorating lighting, the production casts a seductive visual spell. But the musical and visual enticements of ''Belle Epoque'' are encumbered by Mr. Mee's text, which often strikes an arch, discordant note (1:25). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. Tonight at 8; tomorrowat 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m. Tickets: $70.
ISHERWOOD

++ ' 'NIGHT, MOTHER.' As your grandmother or therapist probably told you, there is something to be said for staying busy in a time of crisis. Playing a pair of women whose shared life is about to be torn asunder, Edie Falco and Brenda Blethyn have an ocean of household chores to swim through in the strangely uninvolving revival of Marsha Norman's '' 'Night, Mother.'' Putting candy in jars, cleaning out the refrigerator, bagging garbage: such tasks are sometimes enough even to eclipse the harsh awareness of Thelma Cates (Ms. Blethyn) that her daughter, Jessie (Ms. Falco), has announced that she will be killing herself in a couple of hours. On the other hand, all that domestic industry only rarely disguises our suspicion that these first-rate actresses are never quite at home in their roles. Or the uneasy realization that Ms. Norman's Pulitzer-winning drama is looking more artificial than it did 20 years ago (1:30). Royale Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 and 8 p.m. Tickets: $66.25 to $86.25.
BRANTLEY

Movies

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy movies playing this weekend in the New York metropolitan region. * denotes a highly recommended film. Ratings and running times are in parentheses. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

Now Playing

'THE ASSASSINATION OF RICHARD NIXON' Starring Sean Penn, Don Cheadle, Jack Thompson and Naomi Watts. Directed by Niels Mueller (R, 95 minutes). On Feb. 22, 1974, Samuel Byck, a onetime tire salesman and failing family man, entered the ranks of pseudo-celebrity by trying to commandeer a commercial airliner and crash it into the White House. He didn't get far, which is why the man who would be Booth is a footnote to history rather than a chapter. Earlier this year, three decades after Byck's flameout, this provocatively titled film had its premiere at the Cannes festival. Directed by a first-timer, it stars Mr. Penn as a character inspired by the man who hoped to drop a 747 on the White House and incinerate Dick Nixon. Mr. Penn, as is his wont, acts up a storm with the aid of some facial embellishment, in this case a mustache that broadcasts the fanfare for the common man with all the discretion of Aaron Copland.
MANOHLA DARGIS

'THE AVIATOR' Starring Leonardo DiCaprio. Directed by Martin Scorsese (PG-13, 169 minutes). The famously eccentric and reclusive empire builder Howard Hughes was born alone and died alone, the two times in his life when he was no different from anyone else. For the rest of his life, the high-flying Hughes seemed to have drifted in from some distant aerie where exotic birds hatch far from everyday worries. At the age of 18, he was both an orphan and a millionaire, and while he could never be called ordinary, in the following two decades his wealth and all that it afforded brought him a very American kind of celebrity. It is that celebrity, fueled by money, stoked by matinee looks and playboy style, which preoccupies ''The Aviator,'' Mr. Scorsese's visually sumptuous if disappointingly hollow account of Hughes's early life. Written by John Logan, the story principally covers the late 20's through the 40's, when Hughes, played by Mr. DiCaprio, was gadding about both Hollywood and the aviation world.
DARGIS

* 'BAD EDUCATION' Starring Gael Garcia Bernal, Fele Martinez and Javier Camara. Directed by Pedro Almodovar (NC-17; 110 minutes; in Spanish, with English subtitles). This Spanish director's newest film is a delirious, headlong immersion and reinvention of film noir, a style that has lured countless filmmakers onto its treacherous shoals. Mr. Almodovar, unlike other filmmakers who lose their bearings, fully understands the degree to which the genre is synonymous with fantasy and a primal longing for the forbidden. The coup de grace of ''Bad Education'' is that here the femme fatale is a predatory transsexual named Ignacio. ''Bad Education'' contemplates the wonder of storytelling and the human instinct to embroider reality to make the tales we tell more real and conclusive, if less strictly factual.
STEPHEN HOLDEN

'BEYOND THE SEA' Starring Kevin Spacey, Kate Bosworth and John Goodman. Directed by Mr. Spacey (PG-13, 118 minutes). The matching of two slithery chameleons, the singer Bobby Darin (who died in 1973 at the age of 37) and his latter-day doppelganger, Mr. Spacey (now 45), sparks a weird bluish flame that suggests a wax yule log posing as wood in the season's teeming fireplace of movie biographies. When ignited, it releases acrid, waxy fumes that feel queasily chemical. The movie, which the star directed and helped write and in which he sings (wonderfully), smacks of the same kind of obsession that brought Bob Fosse's ''All That Jazz'' to creepy reptilian life. Its vision of show business in the 50's and 60's is as tawdry as Fosse's and as incisive in suggesting it's a grubby rags-to-riches circus. (Ms. Bosworth plays Sandra Dee, the bimbo movie princess Darin strenuously wooed and married.) The movie also touches on the ugly reality of show business mothers who force their children to act out their dreams and line their pocketbooks.
HOLDEN

'BLADE: TRINITY' Starring Wesley Snipes, Kris Kristofferson and Jessica Biel. Directed by David S. Goyer (R, 114 minutes). Mr. Snipes may have achieved the Hollywood dream of starring in a comic-book franchise that doesn't require real acting, but he doesn't seem to appreciate his good fortune in the disjointed, overlong ''Blade: Trinity,'' which bills itself as the series finale. The ''Blade'' movies demand only that the 42-year-old actor stay pumped up and ready for kung-fu action. But the only emotion his character, a glowering half-human, half-vampire hunter of the undead, can muster in the third installment is a sense of mild irritation at having to go through the hassle. This episode is a choppy, forgetful, suspense-free romp that substitutes campy humor for chills.
HOLDEN

'CHRISTMAS WITH THE KRANKS' Starring Tim Allen and Jamie Lee Curtis. Directed by Joe Roth (PG, 94 minutes). Lockstep suburban conformism enforced with a fascist rigor is the ugly (but admittedly sometimes funny) joke driving this family comedy. The movie is as slick and treacherous as the sheet of ice its Scrooge-like protagonist (Mr. Allen) freezes in the yard of his lawn to discourage holiday panhandlers. For all you fancy-schmancy snobs who jet off to St. Bart's for the holidays, the movie has an important message, and you'd better pay attention. If you shirkers refuse to stay home and celebrate Christmas like the rest of us, we don't want you in our community.
HOLDEN

'CLOSER' Starring Natalie Portman, Jude Law, Julia Roberts and Clive Owen. Directed by Mike Nichols (R, 110 minutes). Four characters in search of an objective correlative for their needy, angry, compulsive states of feelings. Mr. Nichols's smooth, nimble direction improves Patrick Marber's verbose, pretentious play yet exposes some of its flaws. Two American women (Ms. Portman and Ms. Roberts) are entangled with two Englishmen (Mr. Law and Mr. Owen) in a four-handed game of deception, self-delusion and betrayal that skips and leaps over a period of several years. The formal trickiness of the narrative strips the characters of any daily context that would give their emotions meaning, and the movie is a succession of scenes, some quite powerful on their own, that don't really add up to much. The actors work hard to give their schematic, overwritten roles some nuance and individuality, but only Mr. Owen -- raw, brash and witty -- succeeds.
A. O. SCOTT

'FAT ALBERT' Starring Kenan Thompson and Kyla Pratt. Directed by Joel Zwick (PG, 93 minutes). One of the truisms of contemporary pop culture is that just when you think it couldn't get any worse, its purveyors any more shameless, you are proved decisively wrong. Based on Bill Cosby's corpulent charmer and his band of brothers, the ''Fat Albert'' movie opens just days after the release of the DVD compilations of the original show. DVD's for the program are featured so prominently in the movie and the movie feels so much like an extended-play sitcom, I half expected Mr. Cosby to pop up on-screen to sell me the discs along with a Coke. From 1972 through 1984, the animated television series ''Fat Albert and the Cosby Kids'' enjoyed enormous success. The cartoon was austere but eminently watchable and featured one of those sitcom tunes that etch a permanent groove in your head. Just as memorable was Mr. Cosby's basso-profundo delivery of Fat Albert's trademark ''hey, hey, hey,'' a mantra that signaled that no matter what happened, all would be right in the end. In ''Fat Albert,'' that trademark is resurrected to depressingly diminished ends.
DARGIS

'FLIGHT OF THE PHOENIX' Starring Dennis Quaid, Tyrese Gibson and Giovanni Ribisi. Directed by John Moore (PG-13, 115 minutes). The moth-eaten plane-crash-in-the-desert yarn, a cynical update of the far superior 1965 movie, directed by Robert Aldrich and starring James Stewart and Richard Attenborough, throws in every cheap trick in the manual to pump up your heartbeat. Watching it is the equivalent of having the soles your feet tickled; you react, but involuntarily. The setting has been moved from the Sahara to the Gobi Desert and the revamped characters make up a cunningly chosen and unlikely mosaic of types that include a pretty woman, a one-eyed African-American guitarist, a Mexican-American chef and a Saudi. Mr. Quaid is the brawny, hard-bitten pilot and Mr. Ribisi the brainy airplane designer who, against all odds, supervises the reconstruction of the downed plane into an aeronautical phoenix.
HOLDEN

* 'HOTEL RWANDA' Starring Don Cheadle, Sophie Okonedo, Joaquin Phoenix and Nick Nolte. Directed by Terry George (PG-13, 121 minutes). This wrenching political thriller performs the valuable service of lending a human face to an upheaval so savage it seemed beyond the realm of imagination when news of it filtered to the West. The movie certainly isn't the first screen depiction of a nation consumed by ethnic strife. But its vision of the slaughter of 800,000 Tutsis by the ruling Hutu tribe in Rwanda during a 100-day bloodbath in 1994 offers a devastating picture of media-driven mass murder left unchecked. The story is based on the real-life experiences of Paul Rusesabagina (Mr. Cheadle), the soft-spoken Hutu manager of the Hotel des Mille Collines, in Kigali, who with his Tutsi wife, Tatiana (Ms. Okonedo), and children, narrowly escapes death several times. Mr. Rusesabagina was directly responsible for saving the lives of more than 1,200 Tutsis and Hutu moderates by sheltering them in the hotel and bribing the Hutu military to spare them. The movie, which is squeamish about showing the full extent of savagery, hammers every button on the emotional console.
HOLDEN

* 'HOUSE OF FLYING DAGGERS' Starring Zhang Ziyi. Directed by Zhang Yimou (PG-13, 119 minutes; in Mandarin, with English subtitles). In the latest chapter of Mr. Zhang's triumphant reinvention as an action filmmaker, Ms. Zhang plays Mei, a blind courtesan who turns out to be a member of the Flying Daggers, a shadowy squad of assassins waging a guerrilla insurgency against the corrupt and decadent government. She is pursued by two government deputies, Leo (Andy Lau) and Jin (Takeshi Kaneshiro), whose loyalties come into question as the chase turns into a love triangle. Everyone is engaged in several layers of deceit, and some of the third-act revelations are more likely to provoke laughter than gasps of amazement. But realism is as irrelevant a criterion here as it would be in an Italian opera. The movie is about color, kineticism and the kind of heavy-breathing, decorous sensuality that went out of American movies when sexual candor came in. Though it is in constant, breathtaking motion, the picture is not especially moving. Unlike the greatest operas (in whatever medium), it inspires you to gasp, but not to weep.
SCOTT

'IN GOOD COMPANY' Starring Dennis Quaid, Topher Grace and Scarlett Johansson. Written and directed by Paul Weitz (PG-13, 106 minutes). This gently revisionist fairy tale about good versus evil is set on the battlefield of contemporary corporate culture, a site of our leading blood sport. Mostly, though, the movie is about men. The two men at the story's engaging center are Carter Duryea (Mr. Grace), a young executive who has been promoted beyond his abilities to run the advertising department of a magazine with the resonant name of Sports America. The man whom Carter is meant to make redundant is the 51-year-old Dan Foreman, a ruggedly appealing adult who brings out the best in everyone. Dan has a picture-perfect family and is the kind of unabashedly old-fashioned masculine type Mr. Quaid has been slow-cooking to perfection over the years and which, on American screens at least, has lately gone missing.
DARGIS

'LEMONY SNICKET'S A SERIES OF UNFORTUNATE EVENTS' Starring Jim Carrey, Liam Aiken, Emily Browning, Kara Hoffman and Shelby Hoffman. Directed by Brad Silberling (PG, 108 minutes). Since the publication of the first installment in Lemony Snicket's (a k a Daniel Handler's) charmingly malignant book cycle ''A Series of Unfortunate Events,'' the three Baudelaire children -- Violet, Klaus and Sunny -- have been trying to find safe harbor in a world fraught with danger. For 11 consecutive books, the children have passed from the care of one well-intentioned adult to another, braving the sort of peril usually faced by silent-screen heroines named Pauline and leaving a trail of corpses in their wake. To date, the cause of their misfortunes has been their onetime guardian, Count Olaf, who hopes to steal their fortune. But now the characters have embarked on one of the most dangerous adventures known in literature: their story has been turned into a major Hollywood movie -- and with Jim Carrey, no less.
DARGIS

'THE LIFE AQUATIC WITH STEVE ZISSOU' Starring Bill Murray, Owen Wilson, Cate Blanchett, Anjelica Huston, Willem Dafoe and Jeff Goldblum. Directed by Wes Anderson (R, 118 minutes). More elaborate whimsy from Mr. Anderson, who confected a parallel-universe Manhattan in ''The Royal Tenenbaums'' and who now goes even further, inventing tropical islands and species of exotic fish when the mood strikes him. Somehow, though, this movie is more charming than irritating, partly thanks to Mr. Murray's performance -- a tour de force of comic minimalism -- as Steve Zissou, an ocean adventurer with a boatload of problems. ''The Life Aquatic'' is thick with potential narrative complications -- involving, for starters, Zissou's long-lost son (Mr. Wilson), estranged wife (Ms. Houston), slimy archrival (Mr. Goldblum) and needy first mate (Mr. Dafoe) -- but Mr. Anderson is less a storyteller than a curator of odd specimens and curious situations. The pleasures of this movie are like those of a beautifully illustrated, haphazardly plotted picture book, which precocious children (and nostalgic adults) can linger over, feeding their reveries and fantasies.
SCOTT

'A LOVE SONG FOR BOBBY LONG' Starring John Travolta and Scarlett Johansson. Directed by Shainee Gabel (R, 119 minutes). In this first feature directed by Ms. Gabel, Mr. Travolta delivers a hammed-up scenery-chewing variation of the brainy good ol' boy he played in ''Primary Colors.'' This is the story of a down-at-the-heels former star professor and his protege rotting in the New Orleans house bequeathed them by a legendary folk-blues singer and their partial redemption when the singer's alienated daughter comes to live with them. The film dawdles along aimlessly for two hours before coming up with a final revelation that is no surprise. The movie's hokey solemnity suggests ''The Mundane Secrets of the Ya-Ya Brotherhood'' or ''The Notebook Goes to the Big Easy.'' The movie is another example of Hollywood going soft and squishy when it goes South.
HOLDEN

'MEET THE FOCKERS' Starring Robert De Niro, Ben Stiller, Dustin Hoffman, Barbra Streisand, Blythe Danner, Teri Polo and Owen Wilson. Directed by Jay Roach (PG-13, 114 minutes). Like ''Meet the Parents,'' the follow-up new comedy ''Meet the Fockers'' hinges on the well-traveled idea that there's something comic about being Jewish in America. Not the Philip Roth, take-no-prisoners funny, in which Jewish identity is good, bad, happy, sad, a historical chip on the shoulder, a sign of radical difference. Rather, the post-Borscht Belt funny of the genial sitcom Jew whose difference is amorphous enough to be thoroughly unthreatening; the Jew as an ethnic accessory that non-Jews on both sides of the camera can enjoy without anxiety, like the cute cabala string Madonna likes to wear. And so, just as Bernie loved Bridget, and Rhoda loved Mary, so does Greg Focker (Mr. Stiller) love Pam Byrnes (Ms. Polo). And because Greg loves Pam, Pam's father, Jack (Mr. De Niro), doesn't love Greg. Not because no man could ever be good enough for his daughter, but because Greg doesn't look like Pam's old squeeze, the fair-haired Kevin (Mr. Wilson).
DARGIS

* 'THE MERCHANT OF VENICE' Starring Al Pacino, Jeremy Irons, Joseph Fiennes and Lynn Collins. Directed by Michael Radford (R; 127 minutes). Shakespeare's most problematic play -- at least with respect to modern sensitivities -- receives an intelligent intepretation from Mr. Radford and from a superb cast. Mr. Pacino, showing welcome restraint after a series of overdone stage and screen performances, emphasizes Shylock's grief and estrangement, turning him into a fragile monster. But his villainy, however much it smacks of blood libel, cannot be discarded without compromising the play's complex ideas about justice and duty, and Mr. Radford does not try to wash away the stain of anti-Semitism that is woven into the heart of his source. He does remind us how much more is going on in the play, and along with his talented production designer and cinematographer, he renders Venice as a series of Renaissance paintings -- tableaus that immerse us in the ferment of early modern Europe. Mr. Irons is quietly mesmerizing in the title role, a creature of mysterious melancholy whose soul seems at once pure and rotted. The movie really belongs to Ms. Collins, who gives Portia her rightful wit and charisma, and makes her the play's cruel and lovely moral center.
SCOTT

* 'MILLION DOLLAR BABY' Starring Clint Eastwood, Hilary Swank and Morgan Freeman. Directed by Mr. Eastwood (PG-13, 135 minutes). Mr. Eastwood takes what appears to be a conventional boxing-melodrama plot about a crusty old trainer whose heart is melted by a spirited young fighter and turns it into a glowing, somber meditation on friendship, ambition and death. The picture's scale is small, and its pacing leisurely, which gives you a chance to savor three lovely performances: from Ms. Swank as the young boxer, Mr. Freeman as a world-weary former contender and Mr. Eastwood as the trainer, Frankie Dunn. At 74, Mr. Eastwood has achieved a level of mastery that leaves him with nothing to prove, and so, unafraid of sentiment and willing to risk cliche, he has made a graceful, lyrical, devastating masterpiece -- the best film released by a major Hollywood studio this year.
SCOTT

'NATIONAL TREASURE' Starring Nicolas Cage. Directed by Jon Turteltaub (PG, 125 minutes). Maybe, just maybe, an 8-year-old could pick up an interest in American history from watching ''National Treasure,'' that is if the child can stay awake through this sluggish two-hour trudge through landmarks in Washington, Philadelphia and New York. It's far more likely, however, that a child who can stay awake through the movie will come away believing the bogus mythology that detonates this fanciful reality game show with a squishy thud. That mythology, derived from Freemasonry, holds that a map, drawn in invisible ink on the back of the Declaration of Independence, contains clues to the whereabouts of the Greatest Treasure Ever Told About. A more cynical (and witless, shoddy) chase for Hollywood gold is hard to imagine.
HOLDEN

* 'OCEAN'S TWELVE' Starring George Clooney, Brad Pitt, Matt Damon, Don Cheadle and Scott Caan. Directed by Steven Soderbergh (PG-13, 120 minutes). At a certain point in the enjoyable, unabashedly trivial caper flick ''Ocean's Twelve,'' crooks played by Mr. Damon, Mr. Cheadle and Mr. Caan start running through the different ways they can get out of their immediate jam. Things have gone badly for these likable rogues and now most of their crew -- including the smooth piece of work who gives the film its title, Danny Ocean -- played by the equally silky Mr. Clooney -- has landed in the clink. The crooks are looking for a get-out-of-jail-free card, which given the film's criminally underdone plot and smog of self-satisfaction is something that Mr. Soderbergh may have wanted to stash up his own sleeve. As anyone within spitting distance of a television set knows, ''Ocean's Twelve'' is the high-profile sequel to Mr. Soderbergh's big box office entertainment ''Ocean's Eleven.'' Once again Mr. Clooney's Danny is the leader of the pack, Mr. Pitt plays his second in command, Rusty Ryan, and Mr. Damon plays Linus, a puppy that desperately wants to be a dog but may not have sprouted the requisite fangs.
DARGIS

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Starring Gerard Butler, Emmy Rossum and Minnie Driver. Directed by Joel Schumacher (PG-13, 143 minutes). ''Far too many notes for my taste,'' a minor character remarks, apropos of the threatening letters being sent by the micromanaging phantom. That pretty much sums up the problems with Andrew Lloyd Webber's bombastic score, which is well matched by Mr. Schumacher's production. For all the invocations of ''the angel of music,'' this film, adapted from the curiously popular stage musical, will most likely leave you with a devilish headache. The songs are unlistenable, which also makes them hard to sing, but Ms. Rossum and Mr. Butler show some impressive vocal technique, and Ms. Rossum, in addition to being lovely, has enough movie star luminosity to avoid being buried in the busy sets and elaborate costumes. This 2-hour-and-20-minute barrage may drive you back to the 1925 version of ''Phantom,'' which starred Lon Chaney and which has many virtues. For one thing, it is short. For another, it's silent.
SCOTT

'THE SEA INSIDE' Starring Javier Bardem and Belen Rueda. Directed by Alejandro Amenabar (PG-13, 125 minutes; in Spanish with English subtitles). As the camera restlessly circles the sky and the ocean, taking in the radiance of northern Spain, the story of a quadriplegic activist fighting for the right to die, struggles to transcend the disease-of-the-week genre to which it belongs. Yet there is no escaping the fact that the true story of Ramon Sampedro, a former ship's mechanic seeking a final exit after three decades of agonizing immobility, is defined by its theme. To its credit it avoids becoming a formulaic dialogue that pits religious and secular cheerleaders against each other in predigested arguments. Sensitively portrayed by the great Spanish actor Javier Bardem, Ramon, 55, regards his life in the wake of a crippling accident in his mid-20's as a cruel, cosmic joke. In the emotional kernel of the movie, Ramon contemplates the impossibility of consummating his passion for his beautiful new lawyer (Ms. Rueda) who suffers from a debilitating disease.
HOLDEN

'SPANGLISH' Starring Adam Sandler, Tea Leoni and Paz Vega.
Directed by James L. Brooks (PG-13, 110 minutes). Mr. Brooks, one of the smartest and sunniest men in Hollywood, turns his attention to class division, cultural misunderstanding and marital discord in Los Angeles, all subjects ripe for the kind of warm-hearted comedy in which he specializes and all treated with astonishing smugness and dishonesty. Mr. Sandler plays John Clasky, a successful chef who almost falls for his maid, Flor (Ms. Vega), a situation that Mr. Brooks rescues from sleaziness by making Jack's wife, Deborah (Ms. Leoni), a thoroughgoing monster: irredeemably selfish, vain and ridiculous. Deborah, a bad mother and a useless wife, serves as the film's scapegoat, and her demonization contrasts with the idealization of Flor in a way that manages to be both overtly misogynist and implicitly racist. Mr. Sandler smiles through it all, playing a nice guy who unwittingly personifies the film's self-adoring liberal bad faith.
SCOTT

'THE SPONGEBOB SQUAREPANTS MOVIE' With the voices of Tom Kenny, Clancy Brown and Rodger Bumpass. Directed by Steven Hillenburg (PG, 88 minutes). If nautical nonsense is something you wish for, then this big-screen expansion of the popular Nickelodeon show will be just the ticket. SpongeBob and his best pal Patrick set off on a rambling quest to recover a stolen crown and prevent Plankton from taking over Bikini Bottom and driving poor Mr. Krabs out of business. If none of this makes sense to you, fear not; it won't necessarily make any more after the movie is done. In any case, the point of ''SpongeBob'' is not sense but nonsense, and the film, like the series, is a giddy celebration of pure childishness, which makes it a refreshing antidote to the glowering machismo that dominates so much pop culture.
SCOTT

'A VERY LONG ENGAGEMENT' Starring Audrey Tautou. Directed by Jean-Pierre Jeunet (R, 133 minutes; in French, with English subtitles). If you like battleground carnage delivered with aesthetic brio, the kind that ensures that when a soldier explodes into confetti, his flesh will dapple a trenchmate as decoratively as pink rosettes on a cake, this new French film will serve you nicely. Set during World War I and its immediate aftermath, the film follows the adventures of a young woman, Mathilde (Ms. Tautou), who holds fast to the hope that her young soldier fiance will return home from his apparent grave. Even when death seems to part them, the cord of her love remains unbroken. Best known for ''Amelie,'' a modern fairy tale also starring Ms. Tautou, Mr. Jeunet is in the possession of a distinctive visual style that's part Rube Goldberg, part F. A. O. Schwarz, and generally enjoyable for about 15 minutes. But unlike children who bring even the most chewed-up teddy bear to life, however, Mr. Jeunet shows no interest in animating the characters in his dollhouse world.
DARGIS

'THE WOODSMAN' Starring Kevin Bacon and Kyra Sedgwick. Directed by Nicole Kassell (R, 87 minutes). Ms. Kassell directs this story of a paroled child molester struggling to re-enter society after 12 years in prison in a lean, unassuming style, which suits the subject matter and gives the fine cast room to explore their complicated, unhappy characters. The story is not always plausible, and the atmosphere sometimes feels programmatically grim, but the film is a serious, compassionate attempt at psychological realism, anchored by Mr. Bacon's precise, unsettling performance as a man trying to untangle his decent impulses from his destructive, predatory urges.
SCOTT

Rock/Pop

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy rock and pop concerts in the New York metropolitan region this weekend. * denotes a highly recommended concert. Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

* ANTONY AND THE JOHNSONS, Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 539-8770. Like many of the most compelling singers, Antony is a little bit off-putting: a beautiful warbler whose extravagant songs sound less bathetic the more you listen to them. He brings his band of misfits to Joe's Pub on Sunday night; expect to hear a clutch of songs from his beautiful new album, ''I Am a Bird Now'' (Secretly Canadian), due out on Feb. 15. Sunday night at 9:30; tickets are $15 with a 2 drink or $12 food minimum at a table.
KELEFA SANNEH

* EVA AYLLON, KEKELE, EMELINE MICHEL, GENO DELAFOSE, S.O.B.'s (Sounds of Brazil), 204 Varick Street, South Village, (212) 243-4940. A world-music smorgasbord features Eva Ayllon, a Peruvian singer who has updates traditional songs; Kekele, a Congolese soukous band; Emeline Michel, a Haitian singer whose repertory traverses the whole island's traditions and modern twists; Geno Delafose, a Louisiana zydeco accordionist and his band, along with the Argentine singer Sandra Luna and the Cuban duo Alma y Niurka. Sunday night at 7:30; tickets are $20 in advance, $25 Sunday.
JON PARELES

* CYRO BAPTISTA AND BEAT THE DONKEY, the Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006. Cyro Baptista, a Brazilian percussionist who's fond of melody and humor as well as rhythm, leads a troupe of percussionists and dancers in Beat the Donkey, his 10-member mini-carnival, playing instruments and rhythms that are both traditional and newly concocted. Tonight, two sets starting at 7; admission is $12.
PARELES

* BEAR IN HEAVEN, Sin-e, Attorney Street, at Stanton Street, Lower East Side, (212) 388-0077. Bear in Heaven is Jon Philpot, a singer and producer who specializes in dense but delicate little clouds of sound. He headlines an enticing concert full of rock- and folk-influenced musicians who gently (or not-so-gently) court chaos. Also on the bill: the incantatory quartet Akron/Family, the noisy texturalists from Mouthus and the digressive duo of Carlos Giffoni and Chuck Bettis. Sunday night at 7, with Dirty Churches; tickets are $8.
SANNEH

* MARC COHN/SUZANNE VEGA/KAKI KING, Town Hall, 123 West 43d Street, Manhattan, (212) 840-2824 or (212) 545-7536. For two songwriters wielding acoustic guitars, Marc Cohn and Suzanne Vega are a disparate double bill. Mr. Cohn's 1991 hit, ''Walking in Memphis,'' sums up his style: smoothly rolling chords, a supple, soul-inflected voice and a kindly outlook. He has been known to sing not only his songs but his stage patter. Suzanne Vega's songs, by contrast, are as clear and pointed as her voice, with a way of refracting large emotions through finely noted details. Kaki King explores her acoustic guitar in instrumentals that can be tautly syncopated or serene and limpid. Tomorrow night at 7; tickets are $30 to $45.
PARELES

GENO DELAFOSE AND FRENCH ROCKIN' BOOGIE, Satalla, 37 West 26th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-1155 and S.O.B.'s (Sounds of Brazil), 204 Varick Street, at Houston, South Village, (212) 243-4940. Geno Delafose, the son of the zydeco accordionist John Delafose, holds on to the traditions of an older generation, pumping waltzes and two-steps on his button accordion. Like Clifton Chenier, he also dips deeply into the blues and rhythm-and-blues but keeps the music's old bayou flavor. At Satalla tomorrow night at 7:30 and 9:30, with dance lessons at 6:30; admission is $22 and a one-drink minimum. At S.O.B.'s, with Eva Ayllon (see above) and others, Sunday night at 7; tickets are $20 in advance, $25 Sunday.
PARELES

ROBERT GORDON, B.B. King Blues Club and Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144. After a short flirtation with 1970's punk, Robert Gordon fell in love with rockabilly and had a hit with a remake of ''Red Hot.'' He's still twanging, and for this show, celebrating Elvis Presley's birthday, he reaches back to the best-known rockabilly of them all, backed by members of the Rockats. Tonight at 8; tickets are $15 with a $10 minimum.
PARELES

HAMELL ON TRIAL, Fez (downstairs at the Time Cafe), 380 Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 533-2680. A solo performer with the force of a hard-rock band, Ed Hamell quick-strums his acoustic guitar and delivers torrents of words, sometimes funny, sometimes furious. Tomorrow night at 8; admission is $10 with a two drink minimum.
PARELES

* MORY KANTE, S.O.B.'s (Sounds of Brazil), 204 Varick Street, South Village, (212) 243-4940. Mory Kante, who comes from a long line of Mande griots, was born in in Kissidougou, Guinea, and became a singer in the Rail Band in Bamako, Mali. He grew up playing balafon (marimba) and went on to play kora (harp-guitar) and electric guitar in a career of fusions with funk, dance music and music from across Africa, including one of African music's biggest worldwide hits, the million-selling ''Yeke Yeke.'' Tonight at 11; tickets are $20.
PARELES

B.B. KING, Bergen Performing Arts Center, 30 North Brunt Street, Englewood, N.J., (201) 227-1030. B.B. King and his latest guitar called Lucille can, on a good night, summon all the tribulation and joy and resilience of the blues. Sunday night at 7; tickets are $55 to $75.
PARELES

ME FIRST AND THE GIMME GIMMES, Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Union Square, (212) 777-6800. As if punk-rock wasn't funny enough by itself, Me First and the Gimme Gimmes gathers moonlighting musicians from punk bands (including NOFX and Lagwagon) to blast through everything from showtunes to bubblegum to soft-rock hits to ''I Belive I Can Fly.'' Sunday night at 9, with Jericho opening; tickets are $16.
PARELES

* LUCIA PULIDO, Satalla, 37 West 26th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-1155. Lucia Pulido, a singer from Colombia, merges traditional Colombian songs with modern jazz. As Susana Baca has done with Afro-Peruvian songs, Ms. Pulido holds on to the rawness of the original melodies while giving them a sophisticated new context. Tonight at 7:30; admission is $12 plus a one drink minimum.
PARELES

MIKE RAFFERTY, Glucksman Ireland House at New York University, 1 Washington Mews, near Fifth Avenue at Washington Square, (212) 998-3950. Irish music runs in the Rafferty family. Mike Rafferty, who plays flute and uilleann pipes, went on to teach his daughter Mary, who was in the group Cherish the Ladies. Mr. Rafferty, who has been playing traditional music since the 1930's, has just released his first solo album, and for this show he will be joined by Mary Rafferty, Donal Clancy on guitar, Joe Madden on button accordion and Willie Kelly on fiddle. Tonight at 9; tickets are $15.
PARELES

* THE SILENT LEAGUE, Northsix, 66 North Sixth Street, Williamburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-5103. Brian Wilson's legacy shimmers through the songs of the Silent League, which uses a handful of musicians to create grandly expansive orchestral pop. Tonight at 9, with My Way My Love, the Vibration and No One and the Somebodies opening; admission is $10.
PARELES

SOUTHSIDE JOHNNY AND THE ASBURY JUKES, B.B. King Blues Club and Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144. While his friend Bruce Springsteen left behind the Jersey Shore and went on to write all-American anthems and parables, Southside Johnny Lyon stuck to the old bar-band basics: rolling R & B vamps and raspy-voiced, good-natured soul plaints, complete with horn section. Through the years, Mr. Springsteen and Miami Steve Van Zandt have customized some songs for their former bandmate, who draws loud and loyal fans. Tomorrow and Sunday night at 8 p.m.; tickets are $35 with a $10 minimum.
PARELES

Cabaret

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy cabaret shows in Manhattan this weekend. * denotes a highly recommended show. Full reviews of recent cabaret shows: nytimes.com/music.

* 'SINGING ASTAIRE,' Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080. With Eric Comstock, Hilary Kole and Christopher Gines. The vocal trio that created the smart revue ''Our Sinatra'' has outdone itself with this lightly swinging, 70-minute compendium of songs and lore associated with Fred Astaire. Suave and dry, and fleet on the piano, Mr. Comstock is a close stylistic relative of his idol, while Ms. Kole's pop-jazz singing has a Ginger Rogersesque edge. Mr. Gines fills in the difference with creamy vocal custard: witty, informative and fast-paced. Through tomorrow. Tomorrow at 2:30 and 5:30 p.m. Cover: $40.
STEPHEN HOLDEN

Jazz

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy jazz concerts in the New York metropolitan region this weekend. * denotes a highly recommended concert. Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

* HAN BENNINK AND GUESTS, Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501. In the 1960's, Mr. Bennink, a ferociously gifted drummer from Amsterdam, helped found the Instant Composers Pool, one of the hubs of modern European jazz. But in practical terms, in this town he's known for lightning visits that last a few days, during which time he hunkers down at a club to play with dozens of American colleagues, creating manic, comic performances, pleasing audiences with antics that resemble Mr. Hulot after a quart of coffee. He's here for two nights, and tomorrow he performs with the pianist Uri Caine, the trumpeter Dave Douglas, the bassist Mark Helias and the violinist Mary Oliver; Sunday he performs with the saxophonist John Zorn, the bassist Mark Helias and the pianists Michiel Borstlap and Matthew Shipp. Tomorrow and Sunday night at 8 and 10; admission is $12 plus a one drink minimum.
BEN RATLIFF

TERENCE BLANCHARD, Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street,(212) 582-2121. Mr. Blanchard totally changed his group around a few years ago, and with his recent album, ''Bounce'' (Blue Note), he added Lionel Loueke, a guitarist from Benin who uses finger tapping and electronic techniques that bring something new to the straight-ahead jazz context. Sets tonight and tomorrow are at 8, 10, and 11:30;Sunday, sets are at 8:45 and 10:30; cover charge is $32.50 for each show with a $10 minimum.
RATLIFF

REGINA CARTER, Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 255-3626. Ms. Carter, the classically trained violinist, has been pretty successful at mixing virtuosity with popular appeal: when she makes blues and gospel figures out of portamento swoops, it's hard not to like her. Sets are tonight and tomorrow at 8, 10 and midnight; cover charge is $35 plus a $10 minimum.
RATLIFF

* JACK DEJOHNETTE QUARTET, Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080. It's a new band for the drummer Jack DeJohnette, who is looking ever more like one of the most important musicians in the last 40 years of jazz -- a supremely imaginative colorist who manages to make rhythms swing and fragment as the situation demands. Mr. DeJohnette's regular touring with Keith Jarrett makes it hard for him to lead bands as often as he should; let's hope this one works out. It includes the pianist Danilo Perez and the bassist John Patitucci (half of the Wayne Shorter quartet that has been slaying audiences for the last three years) and the guitarist Jerome Harris. Sets are tonight and tomorrow at 9 and 11; cover is $40 with a $10 minimum at a table.
RATLIFF

* SHIRLEY HORN, Le Jazz Au Bar, 41 East 58th Street, Midtown, (212) 308-9455. At 70, Shirley Horn's voice is thinner and airier; she has become a master of fragility and resignation, and one of her specialties is a tempo so slow that the song almost dissolves in the air. But she gives the impression that she has lived closely with each song in her repertory, and within the fairly intimate dimensions of Le Jazz Au Bar you can really absorb her honest, understated, but inherently dramatic performance style. Sets are at 8 and 10:30 tonight and tomorrow and 8 on Sunday; cover charge is $50.
RATLIFF

* STACEY KENT, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232. Ms. Kent, a youngish American who made her name in Europe, plays with a band that includes her tenor saxophonist husband, Jim Tomlinson. Her high, mentholated, accurate voice has a quick-snap vibrato and a conversational honesty; she knows how to broadcast her strengths in performance. Sets through Sunday night are at 7:30 and 9:30; cover charge is $25.
RATLIFF

LITTLE HUEY CREATIVE MUSIC ORCHESTRA, Clemente Soto Velez Gallery, 107 Suffolk at Rivington, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4080. A 13-piece band led by the bassist William Parker, gathering up some of New York's best free-jazz musicians including Rob Brown, Sabir Mateen and Matt Lavelle. It's the latest concert presented by Vision Club, the floating series of concerts produced by Arts for Art. Tomorrow at 7:30 and 9; tickets are $15 per set or $20 for both.
RATLIFF

DANNY MOORE BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION, Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662. The trumpeter Danny Moore, who's in his mid-60's, isn't a household name or even a name with many listings in the Penguin Guide to Jazz. But he has been a mainstream-jazz sideman on the New York scene since the 1960's; his solid group includes the tenor saxophonist Eric Alexander and the pianist Harold Mabern, and he has made a habit over the last five years or so of celebrating his birthday in public, at Smoke. Sets are tonight and tomorrow at 9, 11, and 12:30; cover charge is $20 with a $10 minimum.
RATLIFF

* NEW YORK CITY WINTER JAZZFEST, Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3132. The Association of Performing Arts Presenters (A.P.A.P.) is putting on a rather extraordinary jazz marathon for its own interested parties -- concert bookers, presenters, etc. -- but also for the average person who would like to get up to speed quickly with the best emerging (or recently emerged) artists in jazz (or music related to jazz). The schedule includes Gretchen Parlato, James Carter's Organ Trio, the Bad Plus, Jason Moran and the Bandwagon and the Claudia Quintet. Sunday from 5 to midnight; tickets are $25. Call for the schedule, or visit www.knittingfactory.com for details.
RATLIFF

JEREMY PELT QUARTET, Fat Cat, 75 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 675-7369. Jeremy Pelt is an impressive, forthright young trumpeter who has taken bits and pieces of style from Clifford Brown, Freddie Hubbard and others. But he frequently manages to get at the thing about jazz that transcends the matter of influences: though he might raid past players for their musical grammar, swing is personal, and Mr. Pelt wants to reveal its mystical properties, its feeling of floating. Sets are tonight and tomorrow at 10:30, midnight, 1:30 and 2:30; cover charge is $10.
RATLIFF

* ERIC REED TRIO, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, 60th Street at Broadway, (212)258-9595. Always alert and fluent, Mr. Reed, the pianist, has gospel and bebop and a lot of post-50's modernism in him, too. He's a combination of assiduous writer, arranger and fast-thinking improviser, and he's working with a group this week that includes the pianist Buster Williams and drummer Al Foster. Sets through Sunday night are at 7:30 and 9:30; cover charge is $30 with a $10 minimum at a table and a $5 minimum at the bar.
RATLIFF

ADAM ROGERS GROUP, Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063. One of the most adept new jazz guitarists, making sense of the tradition of the instrument in jazz from its early days to beyond Pat Metheny; he performs this weekend with an excellent rhythm section, the bassist Scott Colley and the drummer Clarence Penn. Sets are tonight and tomorrow at 9 and 10:30; cover charge is $15.
RATLIFF

WALLACE RONEY, HIROMI, Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 475-8592. A show that promises a lot of fast and flashy playing, including the young pianist Hiromi, the electric bassist Tony Grey, the trumpeter Wallace Roney and the percussionist Martin Valhora. Sets through Sunday night are at 8 and 10:30; cover charge is $25 with a $5 minimum at the tables, $15 cover and 1 drink minimum at the bar.
RATLIFF

JEFF (TAIN) WATTS, Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037. Mr. Watts, who played with Wynton Marsalis's group through the 1980's, is one of the most influential, important and complete drummers of the last two decades. His attack can be monsoonlike, but he knows the value of open space, and he can take over a band with a simple, slow-building pattern. Sets through Sunday night are at 9 and 11; cover charge is $30.
RATLIFF

Classical

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy opera and classical music events this weekend in the New York metropolitan region. * denotes a highly recommended event. Full reviews of recent music performances:
nytimes.com/music.

Opera

'LES CONTES D'HOFFMANN' The Metropolitan Opera continues its current run of Offenbach's ''Contes d'Hoffmann'' tomorrow night. ''Hoffmann'' is either a dark comedy or a deeply despairing tragedy with a lot of laughs. Or maybe it is both. There are new faces in the cast, but happily Ramon Vargas remains in place in the title role. Among the changes are Jennifer Welch-Babidge as Olympia, Patricia Racette as Antonia and Dean Peterson playing the four villains. Once again the excellent Frederic Chaslin conducts. Tonight at 8. Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000. Tickets: $40 to $215.
BERNARD HOLLAND

'OTELLO' Opera buffs who are counting on Ben Heppner to be the Heldentenor of our time were understandably worried when he endured some vocal troubles in recent seasons. So his vocally splendid performance in the daunting title role of Verdi's ''Otello'' on the opening night of the Metropolitan Opera was something to cheer about. His clarion top notes and dusky-toned middle-range singing easily soared over the orchestra, and he shaped Verdi's melodies with an elegant suppleness. From all reports, as the run progressed Mr. Heppner's opening-night jitters, that had rendered his dramatic performance tentative, passed. So the expectations are high for his return to the role in tomorrow's matinee, which will be broadcast on the radio. Also returning are the soprano Barbara Frittoli, whose singing as Desdemona on opening night was sumptuous but a little bland, and the baritone Carlos Guelfi, who was a vocally robust but blunt and stiff Iago. James Levine, who brought such organic sweep, excitement and nuance to his conducting of this colossal score, will again be in the pit. Tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, (212) 362-6000. Sold out, but returns may be available at the box office.
ANTHONY TOMMASINI

'THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE' Every Gilbert and Sullivan fan has his or her own favorite, but ''The Pirates of Penzance'' tops a lot of lists. The New York Gilbert and Sullivan Players, the city's preeminent G & S troupe, while it may not have Kevin Kline, brings back its production for the first of three weekends with a bona fide television star to enhance sales: Hal Linden will be the very model of a model Major General. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 3 and 8 p.m., and Sunday afternoon at 3, City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212. Tickets: $40 to $85.
ANNE MIDGETTE

'TURANDOT' The American soprano Andrea Gruber takes on the daunting title role of Puccini's ''Turandot'' in the Metropolitan Opera's revival of Franco Zeffirelli's gargantuan and glittering 1987 production, so popular it's critic-proof. Ms. Gruber has been singing some formidable repertory since returning to the fold of the Met in 2001, and her enormous voice shows signs of wear and stridency. Still, her singing is fearless and impassioned, and through sheer force of will she excels in the role. The tenor Johan Botha is a heroic Calaf; the soprano Krassimira Stoyanova brings affecting vulnerability and throbbing richness to the role of Liu. Bertrand de Billy conducts a colorful and exciting account of Puccini's final opera. Tonight at 8, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000. Tickets: $35 to $200.
TOMMASINI

Classical Music

BARGEMUSIC Moored in the shadow of the Brooklyn Bridge, this intimate floating concert hall is a charming place to hear solo recitals and chamber music while rocking gently on the waves of the East River. After a rare holiday break from its routine, the barge has returned to its busy year-round concert-presenting schedule. Tonight, the cellist Inbal Segev and the pianist Benjamin Hochman perform music by Bloch, Mendelssohn, John Williams and others. Tomorrow night and Sunday afternoon, Ms. Segev returns with Gil Morgenstern (violin) and Reiko Uchida (piano) for trios by Smetana, Dvorak and others. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30 and Sunday afternoon at 4, Fulton Ferry Landing, under the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083. Tickets: $35; students, $25.
JEREMY EICHLER

DANIEL GORTLER Given the notoriously long brunch lines on the Upper West Side, it's no surprise that Lincoln Center has found an eager audience for its series of short Sunday morning concerts followed by a reception with the artists. This weekend, the Israeli pianist Daniel Gortler brings an all-Mendelssohn program featuring the composer's ''Songs Without Words.'' Sunday at 11 a.m., Walter Reade Theater, Rose Building, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500. Tickets: $20.
EICHLER

ANDREW HENDERSON St. Ignatius Loyola offers one of the best church-music programs in the city, with its concert series ''Sacred Music in a Sacred Space'' offering everything from fine choral singing to programs showing off the church's impressive Mander pipe organ. Andrew Henderson, the church's award-winning assistant organist, offers a beautiful early piece by Olivier Messiaen, nine meditations on the birth of Jesus called ''La Nativite du Seigneur.'' Sunday afternoon at 4, St. Ignatius Loyola, 980 Park Avenue, at 84th Street, (212) 288-2520. Tickets: $15 and $20.
MIDGETTE

* AUDRA McDONALD Pushing the envelope is becoming something of a trademark at the events Lincoln Center presents itself. This weekend, its American Songbook series moves over to Jazz at Lincoln Center's new Rose Theater in the Time Warner building, showcasing an artist many people will be happy to follow anywhere. Audra McDonald, the gifted singer, will do her thing in a program that involves a chamber ensemble, the stage director Lonny Price, the music director Ted Sperling and composers from Stevie Wonder to Adam Guettel. Tonight and tomorrow at 8, Rose Theater, Broadway and 60th Street, (212) 721-6500. Tickets: $50 and $75.
MIDGETTE

MET ORCHESTRA Thematic programming? This is just perverse. After a tame first half (Weber's ''Euryanthe'' Overture and Brahms's Violin Concerto, with Gil Shaham as soloist), all hell breaks loose with the rip-roaring ''Ameriques'' by Edgard Varese (a Parisian in America), a concert closer if ever there was one. But James Levine follows that pulverizing music with Gershwin's ditzy ''American in Paris.'' (Get it?) Evidently he likes the little joke, because he is ending a Boston Symphony program in Symphony Hall in March with the same odd coupling. Sunday at 3 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800. Tickets: $39 to $155.
JAMES R. OESTREICH

METROPOLITAN MUSEUM ARTISTS IN CONCERT Sensing correctly that some fresh energy was needed to enliven its chamber music offerings, the Metropolitan Museum founded its own official resident ensemble last year, consisting mostly of young New York-based musicians in the early stages of their careers. The ensemble has been scheduled for just three concerts this season -- a very modest number for a resident ensemble -- but the first of these three takes place tonight. Several of the ensemble's members will no doubt be drawing on their past experience with Yo-Yo Ma's Silk Road Project for tonight's program: Yan Yong's ''River Songs'' for erhu and cello and Chen Yi's Fiddle Suite for erhu and string quartet. Haydn and Mendelssohn are also on the bill. Tonight at 7 , Grace Rainey Rogers Auditorium, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 570-3949. Tickets: $20; students, $5 at the door.
EICHLER

MUSIC FROM ASTON MAGNA The early-music scene in the Northeast, which has long shuttled between New York and Boston, finds a pleasant middle ground in the summer, as this venerable Boston-tinged group holds forth in the Berkshire foothills, in Great Barrington, Mass., and Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y. And now it briefly gravitates to New York, in a program of quintets by Mozart, Weber and Onslow, with Eric Hoeprich as clarinetist. Sunday at 5 p.m., Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, Manhattan, (212) 288-0700. Free, but tickets are required.
OESTREICH

NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC Daniele Gatti, one of the attractive recent arrivals in the conducting world, is busy on the international circuit of guest appearances. He alights at Avery Fisher Hall tonight in a concert with the New York Philharmonic. A long-established and consistently strong colleague at the piano will be Yefim Bronfman. Schumann's ''Manfred'' Overture and the Brahms Fourth Symphony provide the beginning and end of this program. At the core is Bartok's Second Piano Concerto. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8. Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500. Tickets: $25 to $90.
HOLLAND

NORTH/SOUTH CHAMBER ORCHESTRA The composer, pianist and conductor Max Lifchitz has long been on a mission to bring contemporary music to mainstream audiences. This season the North/South Consonance Ensemble, which he directs, is offering a series of free programs at the acoustically splendid Christ and St. Stephen's Church. On Sunday afternoon the North/South String Orchestra a roster of instrumental soloists and the narrator Robert Sherman present a New Year's celebration with works by Mary Jeanne van Appledorn, Allan Crossman, Harold Schiffman, Ricardo Tacuchian and Ernst Bacon. Sunday at 3 p.m., Christ and St. Stephen's Church, 120 West 69th Street, Manhattan, (212) 663-7566. Free.
TOMMASINI

TAKACS QUARTET String quartets and chamber music presenters can't really justify their places in the music world without periodic returns to the Beethoven quartets, complete. The Takacs Quartet is attached to the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center this season, and it will be the current carriers of Beethoven's message. There will be six concerts and chronology is not being observed. The first installment is on Sunday afternoon, To be played are the G-major Quartet from Opus 18, the F-minor ''Serioso'' (Op. 95) and the late, great B-flat Quartet (Op. 130). Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, 5 p.m., (212) 875-5788. Tickets: $30 and $42.
HOLLAND

Dance

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy dance events this weekend in the New York metropolitan region. * denotes a highly recommended event. Full reviews of recent dance performances: nytimes.com/dance.

YANIRA CASTRO In Ms. Castro's new ''Beacon,'' an abandoned Brooklyn bathhouse serves as the setting for a rather brutal-sounding evocation of tension and unease, created in part by a light installation by Roderick Murray. Audience members will be separated from friends in curtained, intentionally claustrophobic viewing pens. Bring that hip flask. Tonight and tomorrow (and Fridays and Saturdays through Jan. 22) at 7 and 9 p.m.; Sunday (and Sundays through Jan. 23) at 6 p.m. Brooklyn Lyceum, 227 Fourth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (212) 924-0077. Tickets: $20.
JENNIFER DUNNING

CONTEMPORARY DANCE FROM TAIWAN The Japan Society and the Taipei Cultural Center unite to present the Legend Lin Dance Theater of Taiwan in ''Anthem to the Fading Flowers,'' a tribute to the cycle of the year and religious rituals celebrating the rhythms of nature. Sunday at 7 p.m., Japan Society, 333 East 47th Street, Turtle Bay. Free admission but reservations required: (212) 697-6188, ext. 105.
JACK ANDERSON

* DANCE ON CAMERA FESTIVAL Produced by the Film Society of Lincoln Center and the Dance Films Association, the festival will present 13 programs of premieres and revivals over three weekends. Highlights in this first weekend include a centennial tribute to Michael Powell, the director of ''The Red Shoes,'' and a new documentary on Geoffrey Holder and Carmen de Lavallade. An exhibition of paintings, designs and photographs by Mr. Holder will run though January. The festival opens with Robert Snyder's 1952 ''Gods of Bali,'' introduced by Allegra Fuller Snyder, with a documentary by Anna Ivara about Balinese child dancers (today and Jan. 21 at 1 p.m.); ''The Red Shoes'' (today at 3 p.m.; Jan. 21 at 6:15 p.m.); ''Carmen and Geoffrey,'' a documentary by Linda Atkinson and Nick Doob, introduced by Ms. de Lavallade and Mr. Holder. Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center Plaza, (212) 875-5600 or www.filmlinc.com. Tickets: $10; $7 for students; $5 for 65+ for weekday matinees.
DUNNING

EISENHOWER DANCE ENSEMBLE AND AMY MARSHALL DANCE COMPANY Sister modern-dance companies from Detroit and New York City, the Eisenhower ensemble will perform pieces by Laurie Eisenhower and Steven Iannacone and the Marshall troupe will dance three works by Amy Marshall. Tomorrow at 8 p.m. Haft Auditorium, Fashion Institute of Technology, Building C, West 27th Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues, Chelsea, (718) 267-7194. Tickets: $15; $7.50 for students with identification.
DUNNING

FIRST WEEKENDS: NEW DANCE AND PERFORMANCE DISCUSSION SERIES Dances exploring a woman's self-discovery, intimacy and human suffering -- choreographed by Kelly Bartnik, Mare Hieronimus and Kayoko Sakoh -- will be performed and then discussed with the audience. Tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m. Brooklyn Arts Exchange, 421 Fifth Avenue, at 8th Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 832-0018. Tickets: $15.
DUNNING

* 'CLASSICAL SAVION' Savion Glover returns. Need we say more? But this time, in a show that runs through Jan. 23, the tap stylist is performing to classical music. Tonight (and Tuesdays through Fridays through Jan. 21) at 8; tomorrow (and Saturdays through Jan. 22) at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 and 7:30 p.m. Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800 or www.joyce.org. Tickets: $42.
DUNNING

DANIEL LEVEILLE DANSE A Montreal choreographer offers ''The Modesty of Icebergs,'' in which naked bodies move through an unadorned space in a series of interactions that celebrate the power of movement. Tonight, tomorrow and Sunday at 8:30, Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, Second Avenue at 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194. Tickets: $15.
ANDERSON

* NEW YORK CITY BALLET The holidays are over. A new year has begun. For those who haven't the energy for anything but juicy sentimentality, a trip is in order to the City Ballet, which is performing Jerome Robbins's high-caloric ''I'm Old Fashioned,'' with live dancers moving below a giant screen filled with images of Astaire and Hayworth dancing (tonight and tomorrow night). Another highlight of this first weekend back from ''The Nutcracker'' may well be the premiere, tonight, of Peter Martins's ''Todos Buenos Aires,'' starring Julio Bocca of American Ballet Theater fame. The repertory also includes ballets by George Balanchine and Christopher Wheeldon, as well as Boris Eifman's ''Musagete,'' complete with wheeled chair. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m. New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-5570 or www.nycballet.com. Tickets: $30 to $83. For availability of Student Rush tickets at $12 check the company Web site or call (212) 870-7766.
DUNNING

THIRD RAIL DANCE In ''Screaming Shrubbery,'' inspired by mystery novels and collaboratively created by Jennine Willett, Tom Pearson and Zach Morris, six dancers and one dummy portray 99 characters. Murder and mayhem abound during a weekend celebration in which topiary sing, British aristocrats dance with drunken abandon and tea and crumpets will be served to the audience. Tonight at 9, tomorrow at 8 and 10 p.m., Sunday at 8 p.m., Merce Cunningham Studio, 55 Bethune Street, West Village, (718) 871-3932. Tickets: $15.
ANDERSON

* UNDER THE RADAR: BIG DANCE THEATER Another chance to see the company's ''Plan B,'' one of last season's most fascinating and disturbing theater dance pieces, whose characters feature President Richard M. Nixon and Kaspar Hauser, the famous ''wild child'' of 19th-century Germany. Sunday and Monday at 7 p.m., DUMBO Stable, 16 Main Street, at Water Street, Brooklyn, (718) 422-7875. Tickets: $15.
DUNNING

* UNDER THE RADAR: MARC BAMUTH JOSEPHI In ''Word Becomes Flesh,'' Mr. Joseph explores the commercialization and exploitation of the black male body, drawing on language and tap, West African, hip-hop and jazz movement. Tomorow at 5 p.m.; Monday at 8 p.m., St. Ann's Warehouse, 38 Water Street, Brooklyn, (718) 254-8779 or stannswarehouse.org. Tickets: $15.
DUNNING

* ROS WARBY Ms. Warby is a small, inscrutable but shamelessly abandoned performer. With a little luck, her new ''Swift'' will be as irresistible. The solo examines the layers of a female character in a world of fairytale and transformation, framed by enlarged fragments of her moving body seen on 12 video projections created by the filmmaker Margie Medlin, a fellow Aussie. ''Swift'' is set to cello music composed and performed live by Helen Mountfort. Tonight and tomorrow at 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077. Tickets: $20.
DUNNING

Art

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy art, design and photography shows at New York museums and galleries this weekend. At many museums, children under 12 and members are admitted free. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free unless noted. * denotes a highly recommended show. Full reviews of recent shows: nytimes.com/art.

Museums

* 'THE AZTEC EMPIRE,' Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, through Feb. 13. When a big survey of Aztec art opened in London in 2002, everybody flipped out. It was one of the hottest ancient-art events since Tutankhamen. Now an expanded version of the London show is at the Guggenheim, and it's a stunner. Objects from pre-Aztec Mexico set the stage, but it is material from the bloody-minded, deity-besotted Aztec culture that fills the museum's darkened ramps. Set on jutting platforms and dark recesses are a skull-headed earth goddess in a skirt of writhing snakes, a warrior metamorphizing into a bird and a god of spring and fertility shedding his skin. Funky clay images of domestic life alternate with ultrasophisticated gold jewelry. The show may be a little too heavy on theater and too light on information, but it's totally mesmerizing. Hours: Saturdays through Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $18; $15, students and 65+.
HOLLAND COTTER

'BLUE,' American Folk Art Museum, 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, through March 6. This cool, offbeat little show is made up of all-blue or mostly blue objects from the permanent collection, including, ceramics, quilts, Shaker ''gift drawings'' and some attractive portraits. In one dated around 1768, a proud young Newport, R.I., belle wears pricey pale blue silk. In another, a chap named Jonathan Knight cuts a Romantic figure in an indigo dress coat and yellow striped pants, an outfit identified with the hero of Goethe's ''Sorrows of Young Werther.'' An 1830 watercolor of a boy named Frederick Buxton was done on the cheap. But while his blue suit has faded with time, his big, candid eyes are as blue as the day they were painted. They make a perfect conclusion to this chromatic take on American social history. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. Admission: $9; students, 62+, $7.
COTTER

* 'RALPH EUGENE MEATYARD,' International Center of Photography, 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, through Feb. 27. Maybe the most oddball of all the photographers of the ordinary, Meatyard gives reality a flip that often puts it into the realm of surreality. His creepy, staged shots of family and friends in strange masks but homey settings, or unmasked in derelict places that turn spooky, are weirdly unsettling while at the same time involved with the familiar actions of everyday life. His idea of family photographs was to take his wife and three children to broken-down houses around Lexington, Ky., the town they lived in, and depict them playing, jumping and rolling around, wearing masks or making faces, in dank interiors with broken windows or standing aimlessly in front of ruined facades. Wanting to convey the mysterious, inexpressible ties among people, Meatyard did not coax smiles or pleasing body language or any sentiment at all from his subjects. Vacant stares and brooding countenances are more the rule. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $10; $7, students and 65+.
GRACE GLUECK

* 'WILD: FASHION UNTAMED,' the Costume Institute of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710, through March 13. This sumptuous assemblage of fur, feathers, leather and such used to keep humans warm, make them look good and ratchet up their social status displays more than 100 costumes and accessories by big-name designers, from the House of Worth to Karl Lagerfeld. The symbols of wealth, status and sexuality run from the maximal white swan's-down coat, plucked from male swan breasts and owned by Marlene Dietrich, to the minimal bikini recently wrought of badger fur by Jordan Betten, a reprise of the next-to-nothing get-up that revealed most of Raquel Welch in the 1966 film ''One Million Years B.C.'' The show, certainly one of the most politically incorrect exhibitions the Met has ever mounted, confidently assures us in its catalog that animal-rights protests peaked in the 1980's and that since the mid-90's we have seen a revival of wearer interest in fur in its natural state. Hmmm. Hours: Sundays, Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $12; students and 65+, $7.
GLUECK

Galleries: Uptown

ROSWELL ANGIER, Gitterman, 170 East 75th Street, (212) 734-0868, through Jan. 29. In the early 1970's, this photographer explored a Boston netherworld called the Combat Zone where strip joints and other sex-related businesses flourished. His documentary pictures of strippers and pimps are not sensational but matter-of-fact, tender and sad. A more recent series studying street and bar life in Native American border towns in the Southwest is similarly humane and visually poetic.
KEN JOHNSON

ROGER BROWN, Adam Baumgold, 74 East 79th Street, (212) 861-7338, through Jan. 15. Roger Brown (1941-1997) was one of the most original artists to emerge from Chicago after World War II. He blended influences from Indian miniature painting, Giorgio DiChirico, Grant Wood, outsider art and old comics to create mysteriously enchanting landscapes and cityscapes populated by tiny, silhouetted people. The nine canvases dating from 1968 to 1982 on view here are the first Brown exhibition to be presented in New York in 10 years.
JOHNSON

Galleries: SoHo

SU-MEI TSE, Peter Blum, 99 Wooster Street, (212) 343-0441, through Jan. 22. This exhibition features the work that won the prize for best national pavilion -- Luxembourg's -- at the 2003 Venice Bienale. It consists of a white neon sign that reads ''[E:r] conditionne,'' and two dreamlike video projections. In one, the artist plays the cello on a grassy, alpine prominence; in the other, men in green janitorial uniforms in a desert use green-bristled brooms to sweep sand into small piles.
JOHNSON

Galleries: Chelsea

ROZ CHAST: 'SEASON'S GREETINGS,' Julie Saul, 535 West 22nd Street, (212) 627-2410. through Jan. 29. For her first New York gallery exhibition, this brilliant cartoonist presents recent cartoons, many of which have appeared in The New Yorker, and a set of eggs brightly painted according to a traditional Ukrainian craft. The eggs bearing images of funny-looking people are amusing, but they don't compete with the cartoons' hilarious and uncannily acute take on the conflicted psychic life of ordinary, white, liberal Americans.
JOHNSON

'CONSTRUCTED IMAGE,' Kent, 541 West 25th Street, (212) 627-3680, through Jan. 29. Though not quite convincing as a theme show, this 15-artist exhibition presents some compelling works, including a small, extraordinarily life-like bronze head with glass eyes by Elizabeth King; a haunting Pop-surrealist painting of an old boxer by Llyn Foulkes; a large collage portrait of a woman made of neatly inlaid pieces of road maps by Matthew Cusick and a bizarrely erudite, diagrammatic painting about the Grand Guignol Theater by Paul Laffoley.
JOHNSON

AMY ELLINGSON: 'SEMPER AUGUSTUS,' Charles Cowles, 537 West 24th Street, (212) 741-8999, through Jan. 15. This California-based artist's first New York solo show presents paintings that are optically enthralling and sensuously tactile. Ms. Ellingson generates complex, layered patterns of gridded ovals on a computer, and converts them into satiny, subtly color-coordinated oil-painted fields, on top of which she applies grids of thick, white or black ovals made in encaustic.
JOHNSON

KEITH HARING, Alona Kagan, 540 West 29th Street, (212) 560-0670, through Jan. 29. If you liked the New Museum's lively survey of the East Village scene of the 1980's, you will appreciate this selection of paintings and sculptures by one of the best artists to emerge from that cauldron of antic creativity. It includes subway drawings in chalk on black paper; large, dizzyingly patterned canvases and brightly enameled, cut-metal characters. Barking dogs, radiant babies, flying saucers, mythic monsters and all kinds of hyperactive humans animate Haring's delirious cosmic comedy.
JOHNSON

'MATERIAL AS METAPHOR,' Tanya Bonakdar, 521 West 21st Street, (212) 414-4144, through Jan. 15. An exhibition of works that are emphatically physical yet poetic includes comically anthropomorphic sculptures by Miroslaw Balka; a darkly surrealistic sculptural landscape by Mark Manders; an arrangement of mostly yellow found and hand-made objects by Ian Kiaer; roses wrapped in spirals of puffy white cotton by Valeska Soares; elegantly spare fabric works by Helen Mirra; and lumps of fat in a cardboard box by Joseph Beuys.
JOHNSON

* NANCY REXROTH, 'IOWA,' Robert Mann, 210 11th Avenue, near 25th Street, (212) 989-7600, through Jan. 8. Ms. Rexroth's small black-and-white photographs of empty bedrooms, clapboard houses, children at play and views of a small town are blurry and often awkwardly framed as though they'd been made by a child in the 50's experimenting with a camera for the first time. In fact, she created the series between 1971 and 1976, when she was herself in her late 30's, using a toy camera called a Diana. The powerfully nostalgic images could illustrate a volume of Alice Munro's short stories.
JOHNSON

Other Galleries

* A. BALASUBRAMANIAM, Talwar Gallery, 108 East 16th Street, (212) 673-3096, through Jan 22. The work of this exceptional young artist, based in India, is about the play of material solidity and illusion. His first show at Talwar two years ago included a full-size human form that seemed to pass through a gallery wall; for the current show he has cast his own head in an opaque, waxy substance of a kind used to produce air fresheners, so that the self-portrait will dissolve through slow evaporation. Time and change are also the subjects of other work here. And the whole, spare, resonant show comes together in a sculpture of a single slender branch bristling with sharp thorns and cast in solid gold; the more alluring illusion is, the more be painful it can be.
COTTER

Last Chance

* 'THE ART OF ROMARE BEARDEN,' Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3600, closing on Sunday. It's a pity only that this retrospective is so big. Art like Bearden's -- mostly small, intense and intricate -- deserves close scrutiny. His genius, aside from his poetic knack for piecing scraps of photographs and other tiny tidbits together, was to see collage as an inherent social metaphor: that its essence was to turn nothings into something, making disparate elements cohere, a positivist enterprise. His collages celebrated black culture and personal history, combined elements of East and West, high and low, old and new: African masks with ancient Greek art, Matisse with patchwork quilts. Literature and music shaped the work no less than Picasso, George Grosz and Vermeer did. Hours: Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $12; $9.50, students and 62+.
MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

* BILL BRANDT: 'THE NUDE: A CENTENARY EXHIBITION,' Edwynn Houk Gallery, 745 Fifth Avenue, at 57th Street, (212) 750-7070, closing tomorrow. Though he earned enormous respect as a photojournalist, making memorable studies of British life and class contrasts among other achievements, Brandt (1904-1983) liked to say that his photographs of nudes were the works by which he wanted to be remembered. This show pays tribute to his quirky, not conventionally erotic nude images from the early post-World War II days in which he photographed them melodramatically in dark, sparsely furnished interiors to later 1950's studies that were near abstractions. In these he closed in on parts, distorted or exaggerated by odd angles of focus and perspective and lighted for sharp contrasts of black and white. They often took on a surreally sensuous quality remote from the everyday. But their artifice blends with that of the natural world to create a poet's vision.
GLUECK

'FLIPSIDE,' Artists Space, 38 Greene Street, (212) 226-3970, closing tomorrow. This lively and messy group show presents artists who have participated in programs organized by Artslink, which has worked to promote contemporary art in Eastern Europe. It includes a few Americans, but the interest is mainly in the Eastern Europeans, who employ conceptualist and often sardonically ironic strategies to address the ''flipside'' of history: a post-Soviet time of declining hope for socialist and utopian possibilities.
JOHNSON

JOAN FONTCUBERTA: 'PIN ZHUANG,' Zabriskie Gallery, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 752-1223, closing tomorrow. Prompted by a 2001 incident in which an American spy plane that crashed in China was thoroughly picked over and returned to the United States in pieces, this show depicts model planes carefully misconstructed by the mischievous Spanish artist Joan Fontcuberta. Photographed against backdrops suggesting outer space, the planes look like flying piles of engineered debris but also suggest advanced weapon systems, NASA-conceived orbiters and techy sculptures by the American constructivist Theodore Roszak. ''Starfighter,'' for one, a fearsome assemblage of miscellaneous parts with a terrifying needle nose, hovers like a hungry bird of prey over a vast stretch of vulnerable terrain.
GLUECK

JULIO LARRAZ, Marlborough, 40 West 57th Street, (212) 541-4900, closing tomorrow. Mr. Larraz, who came to the United States from Cuba as a teenager in 1961, produces a generously painterly realism that often veers into surrealistic fantasy. His canvases record scenes of ordinary beauty, like the images of a melting block of ice or potted bougainvilleas for sale on a sunlighted boat deck. Then there is Vincent van Gogh visiting a modern aquarium in which a big shark hovers behind the thick glass.
JOHNSON

KERRY JAMES MARSHALL, 'ONE TRUE THING: MEDITATIONS ON BLACK AESTHETICS,' the Studio Museum in Harlem, 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, closing on Sunday. Partly to provoke a discussion about freedom and ''Black Aesthetics,'' the MacArthur fellowship-winning, Chicago-based Mr. Marshall is exhibiting recent works in a variety of media, including photographs, videos and installation. Painting is still his strong suit, however. Among the exhibition's high points are a huge, Hopperesque street scene in which a few people seem to be waiting for a warehouse-size liquor store to open, and a satiric vision of ecstatic Afro-centrism featuring a black couple running joyfully naked through a pastoral landscape. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission, $7; 65+ and students, $3.
JOHNSON

* MARTHA ROSLER, ''Photomontages: 1965-2004,'' Gorney Bravin & Lee, 534 West 26th Street, (212) 352-8372, closing tomorrow. Martha Rosler made her first series of photomontages in the 1960's and 70's as responses to the Vietnam War, sexism and America's consumer culture, phenomena that she presented as closely related. This year she returned to collage and the same subjects, the difference being that the war is now in Iraq. Both old and new series are brought together in this major show. And the fact that they form a seamless flow has every bit as much to say about the consistencies of American political history as it does about the vigilant career of one of our most astute commentarial artists.
COTTER

ANTOINE VOLLON: 'A PAINTER'S PAINTER,' Wildenstein, 19 East 64th Street (212) 879-0500, closing today. The realist painter Antoine Vollon (1833-1900) was a technical wiz, known as the Chardin of his day for his skill at still lifes. A steady exhibitor at the annual salons in Paris, he also did all-but-Impressionist country and urban scapes. At his best he was a master of the paint medium, slathering on pigment in quick Manet-like strokes. Complex still lifes are devoted to writhing fish, dead rabbits and compositions rife with fruit, flowers and vessels that evoke the bravura extravaganzas of Dutch masters. Vollon's work smacks too much of other artists to make him Truly Important, but his sensuous wallows in paint are well worth wider notice.
GLUECK


GRAPHIC: Photos: CLASSICAL MUSIC, ART AND MOVIES -- Haijing Fu, far left above, as Ping in the Metropolitan Opera's production of Puccini's ''Turandot'' tonight. Page 33. Al Pacino, above, as Shylock in ''The Merchant of Venice,'' Michael Radford's film adaptation of Shakespeare's most problematic play. Page 32. ''Three Birds Flying,'' a 1969 work by Eddie Arning from the exhibition ''Blue'' at the American Folk Art Museum, through March 6. Page 34. (Photos by Richard Termine for The New York Times [''Turandot'']
Steve Braun/Sony Pictures Classics [''The Merchant of Venice'']
 American Folk Art Museum) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); CHOREOGRAPHY (77%); DANCE (77%); MUSIC (75%); MEN (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); DANCERS (72%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (69%); THEATER (58%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2005



130 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; HAVENS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1710 words

HEADLINE: Weekender Saugerties, N.Y.

BYLINE: By DAVID WALLIS

 BODY:
OF all the mountain Mayberrys calling out to New Yorkers from the bucolic North along the Hudson River, Saugerties, with its bluestone slab sidewalks and prewar storefronts holding vintage neon signs, may be the most convincing.
 It's easy to imagine Floyd the barber from the ''Andy Griffith Show'' at one of the hunter-green leather and chrome chairs at Joe's Barber Shop on Main Street, where customers can still get a haircut for $8.50. On a recent afternoon, a village police officer ushered Ulster County Opies across Partition Street, despite a working traffic light. During the holidays, red plastic bags printed with ''Season's Greetings'' covered the parking meters, a gift from the village to shoppers who usually must shell out all of 10 cents for an hour -- or risk a $5 fine.
 The chance to step back in time and enjoy the village bonhomie proved to be a powerful lure for Erica Freudenberger, who stayed in the area on weekends until she left her home in Manhattan two years ago and bought an 1850's farmhouse that needed renovation as her full-time home. ''I fell in love with the cast of characters,'' said Ms. Freudenberger, who is editor of the weekly Saugerties Times. ''Saugerties still retains the blue-collar sensibility that I really enjoy and grew up with.'' 
 Ms. Freudenberger, originally from Baltimore, extols her new life of Little League games, baked ham nights and penny socials. But she revealed that she had lately struggled to persuade friends to visit her two-bedroom, one-and-a-half-bathroom home, which cost less than $100,000 and still needs work. ''People have stopped coming to dinner,'' she said, ''because they know it's a thinly veiled ruse to pull up a carpet.''

The Scene
 Though some residents descend from original settlers, plenty of others have working-class, immigrant roots and revel in them. Saugerties, at the spot where the Esopus Creek meets the Hudson, was once a bustling port and home to an ironworks, a paper mill, commercial fishermen, ice houses and a canned-mushroom company. It remains a tattoos-on-the-biceps, 9-to-5 kind of place. Bowling is big.
 That said, the village embraces arts and letters. In fact, the original Woodstock Festival grew out of informal performances in Saugerties, which was also the site of the Woodstock '94 concert. Several art galleries and four independent bookstores thrive, including the Hope Farm Press & Bookstore, a repository of publications about New York State, and Inquiring Minds, which holds readings by prominent authors.
 Longtime residents and recent arrivals also meet, and compete, at two auction houses: the established Donny Malone Auction Gallery at 236 Main Street and the upstart North River Auction Gallery at 114 Partition Street. North River's debut auction last month included eclectic lots that reflect the mix of residents: a mod red and white bar shared space with a Tiffany apple-blossom lamp and works on paper by Marianne Greenwood, a Woodstock artist.
 A slew of shops, restaurants and bed-and-breakfasts have opened in Saugerties in the last five years, bringing a noticeable buzz. Some long-term residents decry the changes. Ms. Freudenberger describes the state of relations between the old guard and the newcomers as a ''clash of cultures.'' 
 Signs greeting visitors to the village, which is part of a township with the same name, read ''Welcome to friendly, historic Saugerties,'' but Dick Duncan, a conservationist and president of the Saugerties Lighthouse Conservancy, suggests a new slogan: ''Saugerties: Mushrooming again.''
 Mr. Duncan, speaking from the parlor of a stately red brick house where he lives with Karlyn Knaust-Elia, Ulster County's historian, complained about increasing noise in the village. ''It's difficult finding peace and tranquillity in Saugerties,'' he said. ''If I came here expecting to hear the peepers in the evening, I'd go somewhere else.''
 A new contributor to the burgeoning economy and a bete noire of the antigentrification forces is Horse Shows in the Sun, which produces events that can draw thousands of equestrian fans. This past summer, it staged its first show in Saugerties after moving from nearby Ellenville.
 In a recent letter to the editor of the weekly Saugerties Post Star, a reader suggested changing the slogan ''Welcome to friendly Saugerties'' to ''Have you hugged your horse today?'' 
 ''Think about it,'' the letter said. ''Who is it friendly to? People who own horses and come here for a few weeks in the summer.''
 But David Meade, a Saugerties native who runs a coffeehouse and cigar shop in the village, dismissed the criticism. The business during horse shows has prompted him to convert part of his shop into an Internet cafe, the first one in the area. ''Six years ago, I'd have my choice of storefronts,'' he said. ''Today, you would be hard pressed to find a store.'' Still, he acknowledged that ''the small-town feel has dissipated.''

Pros
 Edward Herscher cited the many good restaurants now in the village as an important reason why he and his wife, Brigitte Weeks, bought there this year, purchasing a four-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bathroom Victorian house in excellent condition for $330,000. He mentioned Cafe Tamayo, known for its duck confit with red-onion marmalade and wild rice; Miss Lucy's Kitchen, which advertises free-range chickens, all-natural meats and wild fish; and the Chowhound Cafe, which expanded to 30 tables from 5 in recent years. ''And there are two good bakeries, which is very rare,'' he said. The Hudson Valley Dessert Company is at 87 Partition Street; Lachmann's Pastry Shop, founded in 1939, particularly merits a visit. It's at 264 Main Street -- just follow the scent of fresh-baked butter buns.
 The Hudson Valley Garlic Festival in September is the highlight of the local gourmand's calendar. It draws tens of thousands of visitors for concerts and lectures on topics like the folk uses of garlic and herbs in the Ozarks, and it offers the chance to taste garlic caramels, garlic ice cream, garlic gum and garlic popcorn and garlic pickles -- but one hopes not on the same plate.
 Weekenders can catch their own meals on the Hudson River during the striped bass migration, which begins in mid-April and ends in late May, though the striped bass fishing season is longer.
 For some exercise, a half-mile nature trail leads to the Saugerties Lighthouse. The fortress-like 1869 brick building with Italianate and Federal architectural details once warned sailors about nearby shallows. After replacing it with an automated light in 1954, the Coast Guard scheduled the building for demolition, but the Saugerties Lighthouse Conservancy bought it for $1 in 1986 and restored it over the next four years. Visitors can now hike to the lighthouse from dawn to dusk, except for a few days a month when high water submerges part of the trail; tide tables are on the conservancy's Web site, www.saugertieslighthouse.com.

Cons
 Weekend traffic, especially when horse shows are going on, can resemble rush hour in Manhattan.
 Taxes are high compared with those in other Ulster County municipalities. General and school taxes on a house assessed at $200,000 would be $8,716 a year; taxes on a house with the same value on Main Street in Woodstock, hardly known as a tax haven, would run $7,336. 
 Houses can be close together, and not many properties have sizable yards or garages. Friendliness can even morph into meddling. Ms. Freudenberger recently wrote, with good cheer rather than annoyance, about a fastidious neighbor who took it upon himself to mow her slightly scraggly lawn.
 Your guest bedroom will be busy; Saugerties lacks first-rate hotels.

The Real Estate Market
 In 1677, the British governor of New York, Edmund Andros, bought the land that's now Saugerties from the Esopus Indians. According to the town's Web site, the property cost him ''a blanket, a piece of cloth, a shirt, a loaf of bread and some coarse fiber.''
 Real estate has been going up ever since.
 Tom Lynch of Win Morrison Realty's Saugerties office estimates that house prices in the village have risen 150 percent in the last five years, an increase, he notes, that has not deterred buyers from New York City from snapping up properties. In fact, Mr. Lynch frets about a scant supply of houses on the market, though he expects more listings as longtime residents gravitate to new houses in developments that have recently sprouted up in the area. He is currently listing an 1880 two-story house with four bedrooms and two bathrooms for $219,900. 
 Thomasine Helsmoortel of Helsmoortel Realty agrees that demand for village homes often outstrips supply. ''There was nothing left in the village until about a month ago, then we got four new listings,'' said Ms. Helsmoortel, who estimates that village houses tend to sell within two months of being listed. This week, her agency was offering a three-bedroom, two-bathroom 1950 Cape Cod for $225,000.

LAY OF THE LAND
Going Upriver for a Slice of Down-Home

POPULATION -- 4,955.
SIZE -- 2.1 square miles.
MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE -- $172,000.
RECENT SALES -- A three-bedroom, two-bath house on Esopus Creek sold for $405,000, reduced from $420,000, after more than three months on the market. A three-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath Arts and Crafts bungalow on Washington Avenue sold for $258,600, down from $259,000, after nearly four months. An 1870's carriage house on Market Street with four bedrooms and three bathrooms sold for $330,000 after nearly four months, down from its $370,000 asking price.
DISTANCE FROM NEW YORK: 110 miles.
TRAVEL TIME -- Two hours.
GETTING THERE -- Take the New York State Thruway to Exit 20. Turn right off the exit ramp onto Routes 212-32. Drive a mile and turn right on Market Street.
WHILE YOU'RE LOOKING -- The Saugerties Lighthouse (168 Lighthouse Drive, 845-247-0656) has two rooms that rent out from Thursday through Sunday until April for $135 to $160 a night, breakfast included. Availability expands after April. Total Tennis (1811 Old Kings Highway, 845-247-9177), a school for aspiring Andy Roddicks, offers two-night packages, including lodging, meals and lessons, for $275 to $420 a person. The Bluestone Country Manor (4170 Route 9W, West Camp, 845-246-3060) has five rooms and a suite at $89 to $125.


GRAPHIC: Photo: MAYBERRY ON THE HUDSON -- When you're on Main Street, Saugerties, N.Y. 12477, it's not hard to imagine you're in Anytown R.F.D. (Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times)Map of New York State highlighting Saugerties.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); ART DEALERS (84%); RETAILERS (78%); BARBER SHOPS (77%); BOOKSTORES (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (70%); WRITERS (65%); AUCTIONS (62%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (60%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (60%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (50%); PAPER MILLS (50%) Geographic Profiles; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: David Wallis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Saugerties (NY); New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2005



131 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: Court Orders Inquiry Into Royal Ahold

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Royal Ahold, the international food retailer, must be examined for evidence of mismanagement linked to its February 2003 announcement that earnings had been inflated for three years, a Dutch court ruled yesterday.
 The decision by Justice Huub Willems at the Enterprise Chamber in Amsterdam came in response to a complaint from the VEB, a group that represents Dutch investors. 
 Shares of Ahold plunged on the day the company disclosed the profit fabrication. The court will examine Ahold's acquisition of its U.S. Foodservice unit, where most of the earnings inflation took place, as well as the way the company consolidated sales from joint ventures and controlled operating businesses.
 The court will appoint three investigators, and Ahold, based in Zaandam, the Netherlands, must pay the cost of the inquiry, which according to the ruling will not exceed 250,000 euros (about $330,000). Ahold has agreed to pay a fine to settle an investigation by the Dutch public prosecutor and has settled with the Securities and Exchange Commission without a fine.
 The company remains the focus of a class-action lawsuit in the United States. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (88%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); CLASS ACTIONS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: KONINKLIJKE AHOLD NV (ROYAL AHOLD) (98%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: AHOE (FRA) (98%); AH (BIT) (98%); AH (AMS) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (98%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (92%) NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2005



132 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Court to Hear Arguments For Dismissal of Yukos Case

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO and ERIN E. ARVEDLUND; Simon Romero reported from Houston for this article, and Erin E. Arvedlund from Moscow.

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
The legal battle over the Russian government's move to break up the oil giant Yukos continued here on Thursday, with a federal judge agreeing to hear arguments on a motion to dismiss the company's bankruptcy proceedings in the United States. 
 Judge Letitia Z. Clark said she would schedule a hearing in mid-February for Deutsche Bank to argue that Yukos had no reason to seek bankruptcy protection in the United States, where it has few assets and just one employee: Bruce K. Misamore, the chief financial officer, who moved here in December. 
 Deutsche Bank leads a group of banks that had been aiming to finance the purchase of Yukos's prized production unit, Yuganskneftegas, by the Russian natural gas monopoly Gazprom at an auction last month. Those aspirations were thwarted by Judge Clark's decision to temporarily restrict the banks from taking part in any deal. 
 ''Yukos has created a P.R. machine with one employee, a laptop and some money slipped into Texas bank accounts,'' said Michael Goldberg, a lawyer for Gazpromneft, a former Gazprom unit that was also kept from actively bidding for the Yukos unit. ''Now we'll have the opportunity to show that this manufactured attempt by Yukos was improper.'' 
 Representatives for Yukos said they welcomed the opportunity to rebut the banks' motion. ''We're looking at next month as an opportunity to continue elaborating our side of this, which we consider quite strong and the bankruptcy judge has considered quite strong,'' said Mike Lake, a spokesman for Yukos. 
 At the hearing on Thursday, lawyers for Yukos revealed that their Texas bank accounts had swelled to about $27 million from $7 million after deposits in the past week from other Yukos entities. 
 The Yukos hearings in February will resume what could be a drawn-out legal process -- one that may go on for years in different countries. 
 In the weeks since the initial Houston court hearing, which forced Gazprom to back out of the Dec. 19 auction, new details about the winner have emerged. 
 The winner, Baikal Finans Group, was a shell company that was quickly bought by the Russian state oil company Rosneft. It remains unclear whether Rosneft will keep the unit or place it into yet another new holding company.
 Meanwhile, Gazprom and others are bracing for Yukos to file suits against them not only in the United States but possibly in Britain or other European courts as well.
 ''They could sue for 10 or even 15 years,'' said Nikolai Krylov, an attorney with Winston & Strawn, which is representing Gazprom. ''There is a real concern that, using different legal tools and maneuvers, Yukos will do everything possible to keep this situation in court and try to drag different parties -- related and unrelated -- into this mess.''
 United States bankruptcy laws have international jurisdiction, and fear of lawsuits prompted Deutsche Bank and other foreign banks to back out of financing Gazprom's bid for the Yukos unit. 
 Although it did not win, a Gazprom subsidiary took part in the Yuganskneftegas auction, which even one Kremlin official, the presidential adviser and economist Andrei Illarionov, described as the ''fraud of the year.'' Not long after his remarks, he was demoted.
 Rosneft has until Jan. 11 to pay for the unit, which sold for $9.35 billion. Rosneft took ownership of Baikal Finans -- and thus of Yuganskneftegas -- which pumps 1 million barrels of oil per a day--last week. 
 Rosneft's purchase was a surprise, as Gazprom was widely expected to be the winner of the auction. But analysts said the Kremlin viewed Rosneft as a better, safer owner than Gazprom -- at least for the moment.
 Rosneft is entirely owned by the Russian government, which may give it sovereign immunity. ''While this immunity will undoubtedly be challenged, Rosneft does not have substantial foreign assets in countries likely to enforce a Texas ruling,'' said Sovlink Securities, a Moscow brokerage firm, in a note to clients. 
 Gazprom is only 38 percent owned by the Russian state, although the government is seeking to raise its stake to 51 percent through a merger with Rosneft, which is scheduled to be completed later this month.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bruce K. Misamore, leaving federal court in Houston yesterday, is Yukos's only U.S. employee. (Photo by Craig Hartley/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); JUDGES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); LAWYERS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); DIVESTITURES (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); SHELL CORPORATIONS (56%); EXECUTIVES (55%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (54%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Suits and Litigation; Decisions and Verdicts; Bankruptcies; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (93%); OAO NK YUKOS (90%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); OAO GAZPROM NEFT (83%); WINSTON & STRAWN LLP (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Yukos (Russian Co); Deutsche Bank Ag; Yuganskneftegas (Russian Co); Gazprom (Russian Co)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (93%); GAZP (RTS) (93%); BK (NYSE) (85%); SIBN (RTS) (83%); GAZ (LSE) (83%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%); ROSN (RTS) (52%); ROSN (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (93%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS541199 ALL OTHER LEGAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

PERSON: Letitia Z (Judge) Clark; Bruce K Misamore; Simon Romero; Erin E Arvedlund

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%) TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (79%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2005



133 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 80 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Mexico: Currency Rating Raised

BYLINE: By Elisabeth Malkin (NYT)

 BODY:
Moody's Investors Service raised Mexico's foreign currency ratings, citing its reduced vulnerability to external shocks. Mexico's rating was raised one notch to Baa1, two levels above the lowest investment grade rating. The agency said Mexico had reduced foreign debt levels and that the economy continues to benefit from deepening economic and financial integration with the United States and from a political consensus on the need for fiscal discipline. Elisabeth Malkin (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); EXTERNAL DEBT (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%); TRENDS (83%) Currency; Ratings and Rating Systems; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Moody's Investors Service

PERSON: Elisabeth Malkin

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2005



134 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Enter the Chinese Dragon, Now Bearing Minicars

BYLINE: By CHRIS BUCKLEY

DATELINE: BEIJING, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
After a year in which dozens of Chinese corporations went global with their plans, the Chery Automobile Company has joined them with an ambitious gamble to become the first Chinese automaker to sell cars in the United States.
 The company announced this week that beginning in 2007 it would export 250,000 cars to the United States in partnership with Visionary Vehicles, an auto import and distribution company based in New York. Visionary Vehicles said the Chery cars would be 30 percent cheaper than comparable models sold in the United States and would offer a 10-year warranty.
 The plan's scope, and the company's own peculiarities, give the undertaking a faintly quixotic hue. For starters, there is the company's whimsical name, made up of two Chinese characters that suggest astonishing good fortune; its hometown amid the rice paddies of Anhui Province in eastern China, one of the country's poorest areas; and its American partner, Malcolm Bricklin, perhaps best known for his attempt to sell the clunky Yugo to American buyers. 
 In 2002, he planned to bring a new line of Serbian-made cars to the United States and sell 60,000 a year. He said recently that he moved on to China because of concerns about quality issues at the Serbian plant. 
 There is also Chery's history of generously drawing inspiration from other carmakers' designs. General Motors is suing Chery, claiming that Chery's QQ is a clone of its Chevrolet Spark, a minicar sold in China. Volkswagen has in the past complained that Chery poached parts of VW models.
 But the hardest part of the plan may be the production scale envisioned. With sales of about 80,000 vehicles last year, Chery is China's eighth-largest automaker, standing deep in the shadows of major multinational competitors like Volkswagen and G.M. To even produce the number of exports planned to the United States, Chery would have to nearly triple current output, though it says has the capacity to do so. 
 While analysts are skeptical of Chery's immediate prospects in the United States, many of them describe it and other Chinese manufacturers as ambitious and dogged players focused on the long term.
 ''They might be trying to run before they can walk,'' said Michael Dunne, the president of Auto Resources Asia, ''but don't underestimate the Chinese resolve to compete.'' Auto Resources Asia advises carmakers investing in Asia.
 Mr. Bricklin, chief executive of Visionary Vehicles, said his company would initially sell five models of Chery cars, including a small sedan, a sport coupe and an S.U.V., through 250 dealerships across the United States. He said he hoped to sell a million Chery cars a year in the United States after five years.
 If Chery's ambitious move succeeds, it would be a breakthrough for a company best known for the QQ, a minicar with a $4,000 cost that appeals to China's budget-conscious consumers and is the backbone of Chery's revenue. The QQ will not be sold in the United States, owing to the G.M. litigation, analysts say. 
 But Chery has a track record of unlikely breakthroughs. The company was founded in 1997 in Wuhu, a small port city on the Yangtse in the heavily agricultural Anhui Province, far from carmaking hubs like Shanghai. It is state-owned, and controlled by the Wuhu local government. Chery officials declined to be interviewed for this story.
 Many investors and competitors were initially doubtful that Chery would survive, said Mr. Dunne, who has visited its headquarters in Wuhu. ''They quietly got it done and surprised the market,'' he said.
 Mr. Dunne recalled that when he visited Chery's plant he was surprised by its advanced building and equipment. Chery has developed Japanese-inspired production management to ensure quality and has used top international consultants to design its newest cars, he said.
 But those expensive investments must be recouped, and looking abroad is partly a survival strategy. As car sales in China slowed from breakneck growth of 80 percent in 2003 to about 20 percent last year, the country's 37 carmakers have been cutting prices, and competition is fierce. Chinese carmakers that have invested heavily in expensive technology are looking abroad to outrun even cheaper Chinese competitors.
 ''Now the party's over and they're starting to think, 'Let's make our way in the international market,''' Mr. Dunne said, referring to Chinese carmakers.
 Those pressures are acute for Chery. It sold about 40,000 QQ's last year. But its higher-end cars, the A15 Qiyun and Son of East models released last year, failed to catch on. Other Chinese companies, like Great Wall Motors and the Geely Holding Group, are also developing plans to export in large numbers, analysts said.
 But more than purely commercial calculations may be driving Chery, whose main export markets so far are the Middle East, Africa and Southeast Asia. Chery and its rivals are also spurred by the cachet and brand recognition that come with exporting to the United States -- even if it is to the low end of the market.
 ''They feel they haven't arrived until they have successful export markets,'' said Ashvin Chotai, director of Asian auto research for Global Insight, a market analysis company in London. ''It's this prestige thing. If they're successful abroad, they're a serious player.''
 Chery will face a barrage of doubts from prospective dealers and purchasers as it prepares to enter the United States. Chery will also have to meet more stringent safety and emissions requirements than in China, will face questions about reliability and after-sales service, and probably be subject to a counteroffensive from Korean and Japanese competitors keen to protect their share of the economy car market.
 Chery also risks the fate of Hyundai, which had steep losses in the United States when it sold its lower-priced cars there in the 1980's.
 ''You can get it wrong and go too early,'' Mr. Chotai said. ''In a sense, it's a little bit naive.''
 To succeed, though, Chery and other Chinese manufacturers must evolve from being mimickers of other company's cars to innovators, Mr. Chotai said. To do that, Chery will have to have a steady stream of new models and innovations to control costs and attract new buyers. It has established a research and development center and hired engineers from big American carmakers in that effort.
 Whether it succeeds will also depend ultimately on its performance in China, which will remain its greatest source of revenue and a testing ground for new cars. 
 ''China's a cutthroat market now,'' Mr. Chotai said. ''If Chery comes out in a good financial position, its prospects will be good, but that depends also on new products.''
 In the United States, the challenges are different. But like Japanese and Korean car companies before them, Chinese automakers are likely to one day be serious competitors in America, analysts say.
 ''If you look at long-term trends, I would say that it's only a matter of time before China-made cars crack the U.S. market,'' said James Sun, head of the greater China automotive practice of A.T. Kearney in Shanghai.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 13, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A headline in Business Day on Friday about a Chinese automaker that planned to export to the United States misstated the type of vehicle involved. The company, Chery, will offer a luxury coupe, a sport utility vehicle and three types of sedan, but not a minicar. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: About 80,000 vehicles rolled off the assembly lines last year at Chery Automobile in Wuhu, China. (Photo by Adrian Bradshaw/Imaginechina)
 Malcolm Bricklin, who once dealt in Yugos, is bringing Chinese cars to the United States. (Photo by Robin Buckson/Detroit News, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); SEDANS (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); EXECUTIVES (60%) Automobiles; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Guarantees and Warranties; Automobiles

COMPANY: CHERY AUTOMOBILE CO LTD (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Chery Automobile Co; Visionary Vehicles

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%)

PERSON: Malcolm Bricklin; Chris Buckley

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) EAST CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (90%) China

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2005



135 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: China Oil Giant Said to Weigh Making an Offer for Unocal

 BODY:
China's state-controlled offshore oil company is studying a possible bid for Unocal, the ninth-largest oil company in the United States, people close to the American company said yesterday. 
 The Chinese company, the China National Offshore Oil Corporation, or Cnooc, recently commissioned a review of Unocal's assets, the executives said, and has made a preliminary overture to Unocal to express its interest in a possible deal. 
Unocal, based in El Segundo, Calif., has a current market value of $11.7 billion.
 The overture by Cnooc is another sign of China's intense appetite for energy resources abroad to power its fast-growing economy. China is now second only to the United States in its demand for oil, but its domestic production has been stagnant in recent years and is expected to decline in the years ahead.
 Unocal has a large presence in Asia, including Thailand, Indonesia, Bangladesh and Myanmar.
 Still, one executive cautioned that Cnooc's pursuit of a deal was ''in the earliest of early stages'' and that nothing may come of it. 
 Shares of Unocal, long a laggard among American energy producers, surged yesterday after Cnooc's interest was reported on the Web site of The Financial Times. The shares rose nearly 8 percent, or $3.15, to $44.34, their biggest one-day gain since April 1999. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (96%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (92%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (67%)

ORGANIZATION: China National Offshore Oil Corp; Unocal Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); INDONESIA (79%); MYANMAR (79%); ASIA (74%); THAILAND (72%) China

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2005



136 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

A Marsh Official Pleads Guilty to Criminal Charges
A senior vice president at Marsh & McLennan, Robert Stearns, pleaded guilty to criminal charges, admitting that he requested fake offers from insurers to rig bids for commercial insurance. He is the first Marsh executive to plead guilty since the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, sued Marsh on Oct. 14.
 Mr. Spitzer's inquiry has cut a broad swath through the industry. [Page C4.]

New Chief of Paramount Selected
Brad Grey, left, was named chief executive of the troubled Paramount Motion Picture unit of Viacom. Mr. Grey succeeds Sherry Lansing, who earlier announced her retirement as studio chief, and Jonathan Dolgen, who left as chairman of Viacom's entertainment group last June. Mr. Grey is head of Brillstein-Grey Entertainment, a Hollywood management firm. [C2.]

More Cellphone Mergers Predicted
The news that Alltel is in talks to buy Western Wireless for about $4 billion fueled speculation that the next round of consolidations will involve smaller cellphone companies. [C6.]

Court to Hear Yukos Arguments
A judge in Houston agreed to hear arguments on a motion to dismiss the bankruptcy filing in the United States for Yukos. [C5.]

Drug Makers to Disclose More
Trade groups representing the big drug companies said their members planned to release more data about clinical drug trials. [C4.]

DirecTV Competing With TiVo
DirecTV will compete with TiVo by offering its own brand of digital video recorder. [C3.]

Symantec Trying to Salvage Deal
Shares of Symantec have declined 29 percent since word circulated that the company was in talks to acquire Veritas Software. Executives of both companies have been scrambling to persuade investors that their proposed $13.5 billion deal makes sense. Analysts have speculated that a rival bidder might make a counteroffer for Veritas. [C3.]

Big Profit Expected From Utility
Texas Pacific expected to make a profit of as much as 38 percent a year by acquiring Portland General Electric from Enron, an alternative newspaper in Oregon reported. [C12.]

Dow and S.&P. Gain; Nasdaq Falls
The Dow Jones industrials rose 25.05 points, to 10,622.88, and the Standard & Poor's 500 gained 4.15 points, to 1,187.89. The Nasdaq composite index fell 1.24 points, to 2,090.00. [C6.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,622.88 up 25.05Nasdaq composite -- 2,090.00 down 1.2410-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.26% down 0.02The euro -- $1.3172 down 0.0087The dollar -- 105.06 yen up 0.97Graph: ''TODAY''UnemploymentGraph tracks the percentage change in unemployment from June-Nov. 2004.December figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +5.4%Consumer BorrowingGraph tracks the percentage change in consumer borrowing from May-Oct. 2004.November figures due at 3 p.m. Eastern time.Expected: +6.0 billionGraph tracks the share price of Symantec since last Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUILTY PLEAS (92%); INSURANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); MERGERS (77%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (77%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); FILM (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); JUDGES (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); CLINICAL TRIALS (71%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (71%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); CD & DVD DRIVES (65%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SYMANTEC CORP (83%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (58%); VIACOM INC (57%); BRILLSTEIN ENTERTAINMENT PARTNERS LLC (56%); OAO NK YUKOS (55%); PORTLAND GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%)

TICKER: SYMC (NASDAQ) (83%); MMC (NYSE) (58%); MHM (LSE) (58%); VIA (NASDAQ) (57%); POR (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); OREGON, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2005



137 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Rice Is Said to Pick Trade Negotiator as Deputy

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
Moving to assemble a pragmatic team as secretary of state, Condoleezza Rice has selected Robert B. Zoellick, the administration's top trade negotiator, as her deputy and is considering two veteran diplomats with reputations as moderates for the No.3 job, administration officials said on Thursday.
 The officials said that the under secretary of state for political affairs, the third-ranking post at the department that is reserved for a member of the foreign service bureaucracy, would probably be either R. Nicholas Burns, the ambassador to NATO, or Eric Edelman, the ambassador to Turkey.
 John R. Bolton, under secretary of state for arms control and international security, is expected to leave his current job but not to take a senior job with Ms. Rice. Mr. Bolton is one of the administration's leading conservatives, an advocate of tough policies toward Iran and North Korea and on the general issue of nuclear arms proliferation. 
 It was not clear whether Mr. Bolton would stay in the administration. Some officials said there had been speculation he might go to Vice President Dick Cheney's staff. Others, however, said he had no such plan.
 Although Ms. Rice's appointment as secretary of state was announced nearly two months ago, and by some accounts she has known that she would get the job for many more months, the process of selecting a team at the State Department has been slow.
 Ms. Rice's successor as national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, has also been slow to select his own team, in part because it is not clear which of the current officials at the White House will move to the State Department.
 For example, administration officials said Elliott Abrams, who oversees the Arab-Israeli peace process at the White House, will continue to be involved in that work, but whether he stays at the White House or becomes a State Department official has not been decided, various officials said.
 Administration officials say that Ms. Rice's slowness in assembling a team reflects her methodical approach. For several weeks, she has also been making the rounds at the State Department, meeting with top officials there, including the heads of the major bureaus and divisions.
 ''She's working her way through the building and made a favorable impression so far,'' an administration official remarked, adding that Ms. Rice's objective has been threefold: to prepare for her confirmation hearings, scheduled for the week of Jan. 17, to introduce herself to people and to audition people for future jobs.
 Another official said the team seemed so far to be composed of pragmatists, without anyone identified with a strong ideological bent. Conservatives, for instance, had lobbied for Mr. Bolton to be selected as Ms. Rice's deputy, but she rebuffed them.
 Mr. Bolton's supporters were also pushing for him to be deputy national security adviser under Mr. Hadley, but that job is said to be likely to be filled by a current or retired senior military officer, someone who could manage the staff and leave Mr. Hadley free to help advise Mr. Bush. 
 Mr. Bolton is expected to leave his job as under secretary and to be replaced by Robert G. Joseph, who until recently was Ms. Rice's assistant for arms control at the White House, administration officials said.
 In a separate development, President Bush is expected to name Stephen Friedman, a former investment banker who until recently served as the chief coordinator at the White House for economic policy, as chairman of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board.
 The board, composed of unpaid intelligence experts, was headed until now by Brent Scowcroft, the national security adviser under the first President Bush. 
 Mr. Scowcroft and the rest of the board were asked to resign en masse, and it is not clear who among them will be reappointed.
 Mr. Scowcroft's departure as chairman of the board has prompted some in the administration to suggest that he was being punished for his increasingly public criticism of the decision to go to war in Iraq in 2002 and how the war has been conducted since then.
 Mr. Zoellick served under the first President Bush's secretary of state, James A. Baker III, and built a reputation as a pragmatic and skillful diplomat. As the United States trade representative, Mr. Zoellick has won praise for negotiating difficult deals.
 Only a month ago, Mr. Zoellick was said to be a leading choice for president of the World Bank, but Ms. Rice's interest in him as her deputy overrode the possibility of that job, administration officials said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert B. Zoellick, foreground, is reported to be Condoleezza Rice's choice as deputy secretary of state for President Bush's second term. (Photo by Jaime Razuri/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (91%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); LOBBYING (73%); RANKINGS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%) Appointments and Executive Changes

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%) State Department

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (94%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); DICK CHENEY (58%) Steven R Weisman; Condoleezza Rice; Robert B (Trade Rep) Zoellick; R Nicholas (Amb) Burns; Eric Edelman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2005



138 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Miller's Aides Aim at Mayor's Schools Record

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
Aides to City Council Speaker Gifford Miller have drafted a plan to portray Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's overhaul of the school system ''as a disappointment that failed to meet expectations of what had been promised as a result of mayoral control.'' 
 The aides said yesterday that they hoped to put the speaker in position to be the first of Mr. Bloomberg's opponents to challenge him on education, the issue the mayor has long said should be the chief yardstick in deciding if he deserves a second term. 
 The plan, described in a campaign strategy memo provided by one of Mr. Miller's supporters, makes five broad complaints: greater confusion resulting from the shake-up of the school bureaucracy; generally flat reading and math scores during Mr. Bloomberg's term; diminished parent and community participation in education policy; unprofessional treatment of teachers by the administration; and increased violence and misbehavior. 
 Mr. Bloomberg's opponents are likely to try to focus on his handling of the school system, in part because he invited such scrutiny but also because the mayor's record is stronger on issues like crime and the economy that typically carry great weight with voters. 
 The mayor's education record is vulnerable to criticism because many of his policies have not borne fruit and also because, in pursuing such an ambitious agenda, there have been several missteps that have had to be corrected. 
 Mr. Bloomberg's opponents may find that they need to do more than just contend that his gains have been limited. They may have to convince voters that things have gotten so much worse that a change in administration is required at a time when some education policy experts say the city schools desperately need stability. 
 According to the strategy memo, Mr. Miller intends to touch on virtually every complaint that critics have raised about Mr. Bloomberg's education policies, collectively called ''Children First.'' On test scores, Mr. Miller hopes to paint the mayor's results as lackluster despite enormous spending on new intervention and remediation programs, especially in the elementary grades. 
 ''We will point out that prior chancellors before mayoral control have produced similar if not better gains in test scores,'' the memo states. ''Percentage-wise and dollar for dollar, we should be demonstrating much higher results than we currently are seeing.''
 Mr. Miller's aides said they hoped to put Mr. Bloomberg, a Republican, on the defensive and also to get a leg up on Fernando Ferrer, the former Bronx borough president and a possible Democratic opponent. 
 Mr. Bloomberg and his staff have been anticipating this sort of assault for months, and they seem ready with a strong defense: highlighting various aspects of the mayor's ambitious reform agenda and trivializing his political opponents as politically motivated. 
 ''It's unfortunate that New Yorkers won't be able to take anything Speaker Miller says on this important issue at face value, since it's clear it will be politically motivated,'' said Edward Skyler, the mayor's press secretary. ''For those who are worried about bringing politics into our classrooms, the speaker is now lesson No. 1.'' 
 Mr. Ferrer is unlikely to stand by quietly. His spokesman, John Del Cecato, declined to comment on Mr. Miller's strategy, but he said, ''Freddy Ferrer has championed education reform for more than two decades in public life, from smaller classes to expanded after-school programs to early leadership on the Campaign for Fiscal Equity suit,'' the effort that produced the court finding that the state must increase annual school aid to the city by $5.6 billion. 
 Through a City Council spokesman, David K. Chai, Mr. Miller declined to comment on the memo.
 Although Mr. Miller has yet to declare his candidacy formally, he has already raised more than $3 million, outpacing other Democrats. 
 Mr. Miller's strategy calls for him to lay out criticism of Mr. Bloomberg over the next several weeks, and the mayor is likely to devote a major portion of his annual State of the City address to education issues. He will also try to highlight his priorities in this year's city budget negotiations, for example, by allocating money to reduce class sizes. 
 At the core of Mr. Miller's attacks is expected to be the charge that Mr. Bloomberg has managed the schools with a heavy hand and that his reform efforts have actually destabilized the system. The memo says that the mayor's consolidation of district offices left fewer people to serve parents. 
 The speaker will also characterize Mr. Bloomberg's efforts to improve school safety as a failure. By complaining about the treatment of teachers, the speaker is clearly hoping for the support of their union. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (79%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (63%) Education and Schools; Election Issues; Elections; Mayors

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%) David M Herszenhorn; Gifford (Speaker) Miller; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2005



139 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: New Ferry Line to La Guardia Is to Begin Service by Midyear

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Despite the financial troubles other ferry services have had, the company that takes tourists to the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island plans to start running passenger boats from Manhattan to La Guardia Airport by midyear.
 Circle Line Harbor Cruises intends to start running high-speed ferries every 30 minutes on weekdays from Pier 11 in Lower Manhattan to 34th Street and then to a dock near the Marine Air Terminal at the airport, J.B. Meyer, the president of the company, said. The trip would take 30 minutes and cost $25 each way, Mr. Meyer said. 
 The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey chose the company, which is not affiliated with the operator of Circle Line sightseeing cruises around Manhattan, in December. Among the other bidders was New York Waterway, which has been struggling to keep its Hudson River commuter service operating.
 Establishing ferry service from downtown to New York's airports has been a pet project of Gov. George E. Pataki, said Steve Coleman, a spokesman for the Port Authority. He said the agency was seeking proposals from companies that would run a similar service to Kennedy International Airport starting in 2006.
 The governor has been an ardent advocate of linking Lower Manhattan to Kennedy by building a rail line that would connect to the Long Island Rail Road. But that project, if it happens, will take about a decade to complete. In the meantime, ferries would provide the only new route to the airports.
 Circle Line would not be the first to offer business travelers an alternative to taxicabs as a way to get from the Wall Street area to La Guardia. Delta Air Lines provided a similar service, which was operated in its later years by New York Waterway, until the end of 2000, when the service closed.
 The Port Authority thought there was enough demand in the late 1990's that it gave New York Waterway permission to start a second ferry to La Guardia, this one to another section of the airport. The Port Authority even budgeted $35 million in 1997 to dredge the bay north of the airport and build another terminal. But the authority dropped the plan. New York Waterway, which carries about 30,000 passengers a day from New Jersey to Manhattan, has fallen deep into debt and is trying to reorganize its operations. Its owners, the Imperatore family, are trying to work out a deal with a Manhattan lawyer, William B. Wachtel, to divide the company's routes, but the Port Authority and the federal Maritime Administration have not yet approved that plan.
 Mr. Meyer said he hoped to enlist the help of Delta and several other airlines in promoting the airport ferry service. Circle Line's boats would land at a dock the company plans to build near the Marine Air Terminal, which is home to the Delta Shuttle. Travelers flying on other airlines would have to board an airport shuttle bus to reach other terminals at the airport.
 Mr. Meyer estimated that the service would carry 400 to 500 passengers a day in its first year, about double the number who rode the Delta Water Shuttle. He said that he had begun talking to some of the larger employers downtown about supporting the service and that corporations and groups could receive discounts of about 20 percent of the regular fare.
 ''The biggest factor is you know how long it's going to take you,'' Mr. Meyer said. ''If you take a cab into Midtown, you don't know how long it could take and it could cost you $35.''
 Mr. Meyer emphasized that his company would receive no subsidies from the government. Indeed, he said, it would compensate the Port Authority for use of the airport dock by sharing some of its revenue with the agency.
 ''This is one more mode of transportation that will take pressure off the highways and help to rebuild the economy of Lower Manhattan,'' Mr. Meyer said. ''I think that's why the governor has wanted this kind of service.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: This catamaran, docked at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, is among the boats that will ferry passengers to La Guardia Airport. It holds 235 people. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (95%); AIRPORTS (94%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); CRUISES (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); AIRLINES (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (72%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (70%); APPROVALS (70%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (65%); LAWYERS (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Ferries; La Guardia Airport (NYC); Kennedy International Airport (NYC); Airports

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (71%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (67%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%) Circle Line; Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (71%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (67%)

PERSON: Partrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2005



140 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: In Albany, 2004 Budget Is Still an Issue

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
The calendar has moved to 2005, but Democrats in the State Assembly are pursuing a last-ditch battle with the Republican governor over the state budget for the 2004 fiscal year, which ends in less than three months. 
 The Assembly moved to alter the budget Friday, two days after Gov. George E. Pataki announced several proposals that would rely in part on money that lawmakers had added to his budget this fiscal year but that he had vetoed, calling them too expensive. On Friday, the Democratic-controlled Assembly moved to restore that spending. 
 As a practical matter, the Assembly's bill -- which would add nearly $1.7 billion in supplemental spending to the current $101.3 billion budget -- lives only until the governor submits a new budget, on Jan. 18. Passage of such a bill would be historic so late in the budget year, several officials said, but it is unclear whether the Republican-controlled Senate will follow the Assembly's action on Monday or let the bill die.
 With questions looming, the Assembly's move late on a Friday was as much a political rebuke of Mr. Pataki as an aim to restore allocations that Republican and Democratic lawmakers had added for colleges, libraries, health care and economic development projects to help create new jobs in their home districts.
 After the governor's address to the Legislature on Wednesday, Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat who is the Assembly speaker, said some of the governor's announcements were ''very positive.''
 But in the next breath he bristled, saying that it was the Legislature that had tried to put money for the same kinds of things into this year's budget, which expires on March 31.
 ''It's unbelievable that just a few short months ago, the governor vetoed a bipartisan budget that included much-needed funding for SUNY Albany, nanotechnology, and for SUNY and CUNY capital and economic development projects across the state, as well as health care infrastructure,'' Mr. Silver said.
 Michael Marr, a spokesman for the state's Division of the Budget, said, ''As the governor has said, the budget that was sent to him last year spent too much and reformed too little, given the real fiscal challenges facing the state.''
 He added, ''It is unfortunate that the Assembly wants to go on an unaffordable spending binge.''
 John E. McArdle, a spokesman for Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate's Republican majority leader, said the Senate had not drafted its own bill but could move to pass the Assembly's bill if necessary. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); GOVERNORS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); HEALTH CARE (65%); JOB CREATION (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (51%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (50%) Law and Legislation; Vetoes (US)

PERSON: Al Baker; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2005



141 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Picture Shows Some Signs of Life

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
Employment climbed at a steady if not spectacular pace in December, suggesting the economy is on a solid footing but that employers in many industries are still cautious about hiring. 
 The Labor Department reported on Friday that the nation added 157,000 jobs in December and about 2.2 million jobs for all of last year -- a good annual gain and the best since 1999. But it was not quite enough, at least until further revisions are available, to make up for all the jobs lost earlier in President Bush's first term in office.
 The increase in jobs, slightly lower than most economists had predicted, was roughly in line with the increase in the working-age population and left the unemployment rate unchanged at 5.4 percent. 
 ''It's a wet firecracker,'' said Richard Yamarone, chief economist at Argus Research, a forecasting firm in New York. ''This is positive job creation, but it pales in comparison with what we have had in previous economic recoveries.''
 Manufacturing companies, which shed more than two million jobs from 2000 to the end of 2003, added back only 96,000 jobs in 2004 -- the weakest rebound in factory employment of any economic recovery on record in the United States.
 The stock market fell slightly Friday, barely reacting to the jobs report. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped to 1,186.19, down 0.14 percent. The bond market was muted and the dollar, reacting more to comments by Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, rose sharply against the euro. 
 The good news in Friday's employment report was that job creation grew at a stronger pace than originally estimated in October and November; the Labor Department, with further information from companies, increased its estimate for those two months by 34,000 jobs.
 Economists said the report, while somewhat disappointing, pointed to an economy that was continuing to grow. Analysts, on average, are predicting that the economy will expand about 3.5 percent in 2005, slower than the rate of 4 percent or more achieved in 2004 but still faster than is typical. 
 ''It's a solid report,'' said Mark Zandi of Economy.com, a research firm based in West Chester, Pa. ''There were just enough jobs to create just enough income to keep consumers spending and the economy moving forward.''
 But the report also provided many hints that employers were still trying to squeeze their labor costs as much as possible. Mr. Zandi said the sluggish rise in wages for a second consecutive month suggested that workers had little bargaining power with employers and that demand for labor was lackluster. 
 ''That's good news for business -- it means that profits should be strong -- but not for the average American,'' he said. Hourly wages were almost flat again, climbing just 0.1 percent in December and 2.7 percent for the year. Weekly wages climbed slightly faster, because workers put in more hours on average, but both measures of pay lagged behind last year's inflation rate of 3.5 percent.
 The new data is unlikely to have much impact on the Federal Reserve's plan to keep raising rates at a gradual pace over the year ahead.
 The central bank has been ratcheting up short-term rates since last June, gradually reversing the cheap-money policies it imposed during and after the recession of 2001.
 Fed officials have become markedly more concerned in the last month or two about inflationary pressures. In notes released this week from the Fed's December meeting on interest rates, officials expressed concern about higher oil prices, slowing productivity growth, ''excessive speculation'' and the inflationary impact of a weaker foreign exchange rate for the dollar.
 If anything, the comments suggested that some Fed officials were pushing to raise rates more quickly than previously planned and to drop their previous pledge to move at a ''measured'' pace.
 For factory workers, the December numbers provided no hint of better times ahead, even though American exports have climbed sharply in the last year.
 The nation added almost no manufacturing jobs for the third consecutive month, and the trend was down: the Labor Department noted that almost all of last year's added jobs came at the start of the year.
 Over all, the economy added 2.2 million jobs for 2004, according to the report, the best figure since 1999, when economic growth produced more than 3 million added jobs. 
 The figure released Friday means that the economy has edged close to the number of jobs that existed before the 2001 recession began. But that job growth has lagged far behind the population, which has climbed by more than 10 million people since then.
 When Mr. Bush took office in January 2001, the nation had 132.4 million payroll jobs. After declining by more than 2 million jobs over the next two years, employment climbed back to 132.3 million jobs in December. 
 That number is expected to be revised up by about 200,000 jobs next month, when the Labor Department makes an annual statistical revision based on new unemployment insurance data.
 Service industries have accounted for almost all the new job creation over the last year. The Labor Department said that employment in business and professional services increased by 546,000 jobs in 2004. Employment in health care services climbed 342,000. 
 One notable weakness among service industries was in retail sales, where employers, on a seasonally adjusted basis that takes account of the typical extra hiring for holidays, shed roughly 20,000 jobs in December. That was a sharp turnaround from earlier in the year, but some experts suggested that the reported losses will be made up in January.
 Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist for High Frequency Economics, said the less-than-expected hiring was probably prompted by retailers' modest sales over the Thanksgiving weekend.
 But Mr. Yamarone of Argus Research said the seasonally adjusted decline also stemmed from the encroachment of Internet sales on traditional stores. He noted that while sales forces were being held down, the number of temporary workers went up, an increase that he suggested included holiday hiring by United Parcel Service and other delivery services.
 ''What it shows you is the presence of the Internet,'' Mr. Yamarone said. ''You don't need sales people anymore. You need people to deliver goods.''
 The figures come on the heels of reports from retailers indicating a modestly positive holiday season. Retail sales rose 3.1 percent compared with the year before, but only after many merchants marked down a substantial portion of their inventories just before Christmas.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the monthly change in nonfarm payrolls since 2001.Dec.: +157,000(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)Chart: ''The Labor Picture in December''UNEMPLOYMENTGraph tracks the percentage change in unemployment from Jan. - Dec. 2004.Civilian unemployment: 5.4 percent.BY DEMOGRAPHICWhiteNov.: 4.6%Dec.: 4.6%BlackNov.: 10.8Dec.: 10.8Hispanic*Nov.: 6.7Dec.: 6.6Asian+Nov.: 4.1Dec.: 4.4Men -- 20 and overNov.: 4.9Dec.: 4.9Women -- 20 and overNov.: 4.7Dec.: 4.7Teenagers (16-19)Nov.: 16.5Dec.: 17.6OUT OF WORK (millions)TotalNov.: 8.0Dec.: 8.0Lost jobNov.: 4.1Dec.: 4.1Left jobNov.: 0.9Dec.: 0.9Returning to labor marketNov.: 2.4Dec.: 2.4New to labor marketNov.: 0.7Dec.: 0.7'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT (millions)Working part time, but want full-time workNov.: 4.5Dec.: 4.5''Marginally attached'' workers$SNov.: 1.5Dec.: 1.6EMPLOYMENTGraph tracks the number of people employed from Jan. - Dec. 2004.Household survey: 140.2 millionNonfarm payroll survey: 132.3 millionBY TYPE OF WORK (millions)NonfarmNov.: 132.1Dec.: 132.3GoodsNov.: 22.0Dec.: 22.0ServicesNov.: 110.1Dec.: 110.2AgricultureNov.: 2.2Dec.: 2.2SHARE OF POPULATIONEmployedNov.: 62.5%Dec.: 62.4%Labor force (workers and unemployed)Nov.: 66.1Dec.: 66.0Figures are seasonally adjusted except where noted.*Hispanics can be of any race.+Not seasonally adjusted.$SPeople not working but not counted as unemployed because they are not currently looking for work
 must have searched in the last 12 months and been available for work when surveyed. Includes discouraged workers. Not seasonally adjusted.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); BONDS (75%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (74%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); BOND MARKETS (65%); EURO (50%) Labor; Unemployment; Factories and Industrial Plants; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Labor Department (US)

PERSON: Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2005



142 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Appeal W.T.O. Ruling That Favored Internet Gambling

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

 BODY:
The United States said yesterday that it planned to appeal a ruling by the World Trade Organization that the country is violating its international trade obligations by prohibiting residents from gambling over the Internet.
 The notice of appeal, filed in Geneva by the United States trade representative, asserts that the country's position on Internet gambling is consistent with its longstanding trade agreements. The trade representative plans to file the substance of the appeal next week with the W.T.O. 
 ''We believe the decision is deeply flawed,'' said Richard Mills, a spokesman for the trade representative.
 The appeal stems from a case brought in 2003 by the Caribbean nation of Antigua and Barbuda. It argued that American trade policy that went into effect in 1995 permits Internet gambling within its borders.
 A panel of three W.T.O. judges agreed, and last November they issued findings siding with Antigua and Barbuda.
 The case has potentially significant implications for the growing business of Internet gambling, which allows people to place wagers from their computers. While the United States government has deemed such gambling illegal, about half of the roughly $7.6 billion lost in wagers last year came from American bettors, industry analysts said.
 Online casinos based overseas would like to see the American market opened up and legitimized.
 Under the preliminary decision reached by the W.T.O. panel, the United States could theoretically be forced to change its laws to allow Internet gambling, or face punishments. 
 Officials from the trade representative said that Antigua and Barbuda, as well as the W.T.O., were interfering with United States sovereignty. 
 In the agreement that went into effect in 1995 -- the General Agreement on Trade in Services -- the United States excluded Internet gambling from the types of commerce it would allow within its borders, trade officials said. Specifically, under the agreement, the country said it would exclude sporting, a designation that trade officials said the Clinton administration meant to include Internet gambling.
 United States trade officials said the W.T.O. judges had not agreed thus far that the word sporting includes by definition the concept of Internet gambling.
 The trade officials have argued that the country, above and beyond the letter of the trade agreement, is entitled to carve out trade exceptions on moral grounds. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (93%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CASINOS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); APPEALS (73%) Gambling; International Trade and World Market; Computers and the Internet

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) World Trade Organization

PERSON: Matt Richtel

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (95%); SWITZERLAND (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2005



143 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Women and Children First

BYLINE: By Michael C. Laracy. 
Michael C. Laracy is a senior associate at the Annie E. Casey Foundation.

DATELINE: Baltimore 

 BODY:
PROPONENTS of Social Security reform, especially those looking for a way to pay for the huge costs of a transition to partial privatization, should keep in mind the law of unintended consequences. One of the ways being touted to find the money both to make the system more solvent and to finance the personal savings accounts proposed by President Bush would harm the spouses and children of workers who die before retirement.
 Understandably, almost all of the debate about Social Security reform has focused on the effects on future retirees or on the federal budget deficit. This overlooks the role of Social Security as a life and disability insurance program, one that provides vital benefits to spouses and more than five million American children in families whose breadwinner died prematurely or became disabled. Benefit changes that may be tolerable for future retirees could have devastating consequences for these survivors. 
 When the federal government created both welfare and Social Security during the Great Depression, it envisioned welfare as a temporary program. Eventually, policy makers believed, Social Security would replace both welfare and the numerous underfinanced state programs for widows and orphans. They were wrong about welfare, but they were right about Social Security.
 Today, more children rely on Social Security benefits for part of their family income than on Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, the nation's main cash welfare program. These benefits represent a substantial share of these families' total income for child beneficiaries. If someone earning $32,000 a year, close to the national average, dies at the age of 40, annual benefits for his three children would be $25,000, replacing roughly 78 percent of his earnings. That's not exactly comfortable, but it's a lot better than the federal poverty level, which is about $19,000 for a family of four.
 According to government actuaries, a young worker with average earnings, a young spouse and two young children has Social Security protection equal to a life insurance policy with a face value of $400,000 and a disability policy of about $350,000. For the surviving children and their widowed parent, Social Security represents the difference between getting by and dropping into poverty and reliance on welfare.
 That legacy may now be threatened. Some in the Bush administration have endorsed the idea of changing the way in which benefits are determined by linking benefit increases not to the rise in average wages, but rather to the rise in inflation.
 Currently, workers' anticipated initial benefits rise each year in step with the national average wage. It's called wage-indexing, and it ensures that Social Security continues to replace about the same proportion of retirees' pre-retirement incomes from one generation to the next. But inflation increases slower than wages, so under the administration's preliminary proposal, Social Security benefits would fall over time. 
 This change would save the system trillions of dollars -- yet it would also mean that over time the percentage of pre-retirement income replaced by Social Security would decline. Instead of replacing about 40 percent of wages for the average worker, as under current law, the replacement rate would drop slowly but surely over the next several decades, down to 22 percent by 2065. Instead of an annual benefit of about $26,400 (in today's dollars), the average retiree or survivor would get just $14,600. 
 Those in favor of personal accounts say that workers who invest wisely (and stay lucky) during the decades before they retire could make up much of the difference. While that argument may or may not be valid, it applies only to workers fortunate enough to make it to retirement. The surviving children and spouses of workers who die before they accumulate their nest eggs would get less. Because survivors' benefits are based on the same formula used to set retirement benefits, proposals to curtail future benefit increases would lower benefits for children unless specifically exempted. 
 Those benefits are vital. For many hard-working parents, Social Security's life and disability insurance is the only source of coverage for calamities outside their control. Only about half of private-sector workers have life insurance through their employers; for low-wage workers, private life insurance is a rarity and disability insurance is still rarer. If the government changes the way it calculates Social Security benefits, then millions of children would suffer when a parent dies without leaving them generous savings or life insurance.
 It was only a decade ago that Congress enacted legislation to ''end welfare as we know it.'' It would be a disaster if Congress were to reform Social Security in a way that would slowly swell the ranks of the poor and welfare-dependent with an army of ''widows and orphans.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (92%); CHILDREN (91%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); FAMILY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); FAMILY SERVICES (76%); ORPHANS (76%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (74%); INSURANCE POLICIES (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); DISABLED PERSONS (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); DISABILITY INSURANCE (58%) Social Security (US); Privatization; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Disability Insurance; Life Insurance; Children and Youth; Social Security (US)

PERSON: Michael C Laracy

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2005



144 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; ASIA'S DEADLY WAVES: DISASTER TOUR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Powell, Praising Relief Effort, Views Sri Lanka Devastation

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE; Neil MacFarquhar contributed reporting from Cairo for this article.

DATELINE: GALLE, Sri Lanka, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell made the final stop here on Friday in his somber inspection tour of tsunami destruction and relief work, viewing the ruined waterfront of this coastal city where at least 4,000 people died and 120,000 lost their homes.
 Meanwhile, Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations flew over the Indonesian province of Aceh, where the vast majority of the country's 113,306 confirmed dead were killed. ''I have never seen such utter destruction, mile after mile,'' Mr. Annan told reporters after a helicopter tour with James D. Wolfensohn, the World Bank chief, Reuters reported. ''You wonder, where are the people?'' 
 Mr. Annan and Mr. Powell were among dozens of world leaders who gathered Thursday in Jakarta, Indonesia, to coordinate relief efforts. On Friday, following up on pledges made at the meeting, finance ministers of the Group of 7 industrialized countries agreed to freeze debt repayments of nations hit by the tsunami if they requested it. 
 The global relief response to the catastrophe is as unprecedented as the disaster itself, Mr. Powell said. ''The international community has mobilized in a way that I've never seen before,'' he said after his tour.
 After his helicopter landed in Galle next to a cricket ground wrecked by the flooding, Mr. Powell stopped in at a relief center operated by the Sri Lankan Red Cross and the United States Agency for International Development. He shook hands with tsunami victims receiving supplies from Usaid. 
 On a drive along the waterfront, the secretary of state saw shops, offices and a bus station collapsed by the fury of the water that crashed ashore after the Dec. 26 earthquake. Of some sturdy concrete structures, only the facades remained standing. ''I had a chance to witness the destruction firsthand, and only by seeing it on the ground can you really appreciate what it must have been like on that terrible day,'' Mr. Powell said later through a spokeswoman. With an official death toll so far of 30,196, Sri Lanka, a nation of 19 million people, lost a greater percentage of its citizens than any other country. But at least in Galle, the extent of the destruction did not compare to that in northern Indonesia, where entire villages were swept away. 
 ''I think we have to be aware that very, very many of the victims have been swept away and many, many will not reappear,'' Jan Egeland, the United Nations under secretary general for humanitarian affairs, said in New York. ''The 150,000 dead figure is a very low figure. It will be much bigger.'' 
 On Friday, several countries raised their death tolls, sending the total past 160,000. In addition to Indonesia's and Sri Lanka's new numbers, India raised its total to 10,001, and Thailand reported 5,291 dead.
 Saudi Arabia announced Friday that it had raised almost $70 million in disaster aid with a telethon this week. Among the largest donors was King Fahd, who pledged more than $5 million, the official Saudi Press Agency reported.
 Mr. Powell had originally scheduled visits only to Thailand and Indonesia. But Sri Lankan officials urged him to extend the trip, and he spent nearly five hours in the country, meeting with President Chandrika Kumaratunga and a top member of the opposition. After he had surveyed some of the damage, Mr. Powell told a crowd of journalists and Sri Lankan officials at the military airport in Colombo, the capital and major city, that the United States was spending $4 million to provide relief supplies, $10 million to pay Sri Lankans to carry out cleanup and recovery work, and $10 million more for temporary housing. ''I expect it will go up as we get a better idea of the needs of the Sri Lankan people,'' he said.
 Then he departed for Nairobi, Kenya, where he will attend the signing ceremony for a peace accord to end more than two decades of civil war.
 President Bush's brother Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida visited Thailand and Indonesia with Mr. Powell but flew home on Thursday morning.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kodiali Dedumu took a shower yesterday at her destroyed home in Kalutara, Sri Lanka. The country lost more than 30,000 people to the tsunami, a greater proportion of its population than in any other nation. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)Map of Sri Lanka highlighting Galle: At least 4,000 people were killed and 120,000 lost homes in Galle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TSUNAMIS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); HELICOPTERS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%) Earthquakes; Foreign Aid; Tidal Waves; Earthquakes; Credit

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%) United Nations; Group of Seven

PERSON: Scott Shane; Colin L (Sec) Powell; Kofi (Sec Gen) Annan

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (72%) SUMATRA, INDONESIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) SRI LANKA (95%); INDONESIA (94%); THAILAND (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) Sri Lanka; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Galle (Sri Lanka); Aceh Province (Indonesia); Indonesia; Indian Ocean

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2005



145 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Some Gains, Some Losses, but Whats Up With the Dollar?

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
While stocks fell sharply this week and the dollar rallied strongly, the bond market began the year with a muted reaction to new economic signals, indicating that the economic outlook may have changed much less for investors than the other markets may have implied.
 Despite comments from Federal Reserve officials that they have grown more worried about inflation and despite suggestions that rate increases would not stop in the months ahead, bond prices fell only slightly, pushing yields up just modestly.
 The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note finished the week at 4.27 percent, up from 4.22 percent at year-end. Yesterday, after the government reported that 157,000 jobs were created in December, only slightly fewer than expected, the yield rose from 4.26 on Thursday.
 ''The tone was different,'' said Louis Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson ICAP, of the comments from Fed officials that were included in the minutes of their Dec. 14 meeting, released Tuesday. ''But everyone was banking on another rate increase in February and there was a high probability of one in March.'' So, he added, the Fed comments did not ''change the Fed outlook for the next three months.'' 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which climbed 7.2 percent in the last two months of 2004, dropped 2.1 percent this week, completing its first five-day decline to open a new year since 2001. Yesterday, the jobs report appeared positive enough to keep stocks from falling much further, with the S.&P. 500 slipping 1.7 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,186.19.
 The dollar, which fell 5.6 percent against the euro in the final two months of 2004, was up 3.9 percent this week, the seventh-best five-day rally it has had since the beginning of 1999. It has jumped 2.2 percent against the Japanese yen.
 Yesterday, the dollar rose 0.9 percent against the euro after comments supporting the dollar from Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, but slipped 0.2 percent against the Japanese yen. A euro was worth $1.3050 in late trading, down from $1.3172 Thursday, while the dollar was worth 104.88 yen, down from 105.06 yen on Thursday.
 James W. Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management, said that even with the suggestions in the Fed minutes, the economic environment had not changed significantly. So, he said, it may be that the dollar rose and stocks fell because ''at the end of the year the dollar was oversold and the stock market was overbought.''
 As for the bond market, he was a little mystified, given the comments on inflation by Fed officials. ''There certainly does not seem to be a lot of fear in the bond market,'' he said. 
 Some analysts had predicted that the stock market would fall in January as investors pulled money out to lock in the unexpectedly good returns from last year.
 One reflection of this type of selling is that the energy sector, which was the best performer last year, had the biggest fall, 3.34 percent, in the first week of the year. In the same vein, the materials sector, which was the best performer in the last two months of the year, was the second-worst performer this week, with a decline of 3.29 percent. 
 Stocks were also undermined this week by the comments in the Fed minutes. Analysts interpreted the comments as a signal that the central bank would not take a pause in the near future in raising its benchmark short-term interest rate, the federal funds rate, at each meeting of Fed policy makers. Some analysts had been expecting such pauses.
 Worries about the technology sector, which fell 3.26 percent this week, also dragged the market lower. Some analysts have said that spending on technology will slow because mergers and acquisitions are expected to pick up this year. If that is the case, many companies will be delaying spending on technology until a merger or acquisition is completed.
 The two other major stock market gauges also fell yesterday and for the week. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 18.92 points, or 0.2 percent, yesterday, to 10,603.96, and was down 1.7 percent for the week. The Nasdaq composite index slipped 1.39 points, or 0.1 percent, yesterday and was down 4 percent for the week. 
 Some currency traders have said they think the dollar will rally early this year, especially against the euro, because new data will indicate that the United States economy is a better bet than Europe's and Japan's.
 On Friday, the dollar climbed after Mr. Snow said on CNBC that ''our policy is a strong dollar'' and that Congress should work with the administration to reduce the federal budget deficit to help support the dollar, according to Bloomberg News.
 Steven Englander, chief foreign exchange strategist for the Americas at Barclays Capital, said Mr. Snow's comments ''were no different from what he has said the last couple of months.'' 
 He added, ''The market read too much into this.''


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); EURO (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%) Currency

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2005



146 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Bush Urges Passage of Bill To Limit Asbestos Suits
President Bush urged Congress to approve legislation that would sharply limit the steadily growing number of lawsuits by workers and others who claim to have been injured through exposure to asbestos.
 Mr. Bush said the wave of asbestos-illness claims has ''bankrupted a lot of companies,'' and that the ''truly sick are denied their day in court'' because most claims involve people with no major medical problems. [Page A12.]

Stocks Fall, but Bonds Hold Steady
Stocks fell sharply this week and the dollar rallied, but the bond market has begun the year with a muted reaction to new economic signals. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 2.1 percent this week, and the Dow Jones industrial average fell 1.7 percent. [C4.]

Justices to Review Andersen Case
The Supreme Court will review the criminal conviction that drove the accounting firm Arthur Andersen out of business. [C3.]

Morningstar to Auction Shares
Morningstar, the investment research company, will go public using an unconventional auction method. [C3.]

Spitzer Finds More Insurance Ills
Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general, said his investigations had found evidence of wrongdoing in the insurance business on a far larger scale than he had anticipated. [C2.]

U.S. to Appeal Gambling Decision
The United States Trade Representative will appeal a ruling by the World Trade Organization that the country's ban on Internet gambling violates trade agreements. [C4.]

Former Finance Chief Leaves Shell
Royal Dutch/Shell said Judith Boynton, left, who had been its chief financial officer until last year, left the company last week with a $1 million severance package. She had stayed at Shell to work on special projects. Ms. Boynton is the third executive to leave Shell since it surprised investors a year ago by cutting its oil reserve estimates. [C2.]

LVMH Plans Sale of Lacroix Line
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton is preparing to sell the clothing brand Christian Lacroix to the Falic Group. [C2.]

New Form of Cancer Drug Approved
Regulators approved a new form of the cancer drug Taxol that is easier to administer and avoids some side effects. [C10.]

Judge Bars Listerine Commercials
A federal judge barred Pfizer from using commercials stating that its Listerine mouthwash fights plaque as well as dental floss. [C3.]

Polaroid Is Bought for $426 Million
Polaroid, owner of the camera brand that pioneered instant photography, is being bought by the Petters Group. [C4.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,603.96 down 18.92Nasdaq composite -- 2,088.61 down 1.3910-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.27% up 0.01The euro -- $1.3050 down 0.0122The dollar -- 104.88 yen down 0.18Graph tracks the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index since Oct. 2004.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BONDS (90%); ASBESTOS (90%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); APPROVALS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (87%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); CARCINOGENS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); JUDGES (78%); CANCER (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); INSURANCE (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); APPEALS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); AUCTIONS (72%); ACCOUNTING (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); CANCER DRUGS (65%); GAMING (65%); SEVERANCE PAY (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (84%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%); PFIZER INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (84%); LVMH (BIT) (84%); RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE) (83%); PFZ (LSE) (52%); PFEB (BRU) (52%); PFE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (84%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (84%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (83%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ELIOT SPITZER (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2005



147 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Bush Calls for Change in Handling Asbestos Lawsuits

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: CLINTON TOWNSHIP, Mich., Jan. 8 

 BODY:
President Bush concluded a week of campaigning to overhaul the nation's civil justice system on Friday by urging swift Congressional approval of legislation that would sharply limit the steadily growing number of lawsuits by workers and others who claim to have been injured from asbestos.
 Mr. Bush, who was accompanied in this northern suburb of Detroit by two business executives, the daughter of an asbestos victim and a law professor sharply critical of the current system, said that the wave of asbestos-illness claims had ''bankrupted a lot of companies'' and that the ''truly sick are denied their day in court'' because many claims involve people with no major medical impairments.
 ''This is a national problem,'' he said, urging Congress to adopt a measure that would allow the sickest victims to receive money more quickly and limit the companies' liability. 
 ''The system isn't fair,'' he said. ''It's not fair to those who have been harmed. It's not fair to those who are trying to employ people. It's just not fair.''
 More than 1,100 Michigan residents have died from asbestos diseases in the last 20 years, according to government data compiled by the Environmental Working Group, a research organization.
 Mr. Bush has long argued for major changes in the tort system, many advanced by business interests, but his effort on Friday was his first major push to overhaul the process for handling asbestos claims. Critics have said that one reason the White House may have been less visible on the issue in the past is that until recently a main beneficiary of such a measure could have been Halliburton, the large oil field services and construction company once headed by Vice President Dick Cheney.
 Halliburton has sought to limit its legal liabilities from asbestos claims against Dresser Industries, a company that made many products that contained asbestos and that Halliburton, under Mr. Cheney, acquired in 1998. On Monday Halliburton announced that two of its units had emerged from bankruptcy protection after formalizing a $4.7 billion settlement of asbestos claims that could involve more than 400,000 people.
 Halliburton's experience is hardly unique.
 Asbestos has been widely used as an insulation and construction material, and exposure to it in the workplace -- in construction sites and shipyards, for example -- may not manifest itself in harmful ways until decades later. Illnesses it may cause range from the relatively minor to the fatal.
 Experts say that more than 100,000 asbestos claims were filed in 2003 alone, and that federal and state courts already laboring under a deluge of such cases could face significant new numbers as more people show symptoms of asbestos poisoning. 
 A 2002 study by the RAND Corporation found that more than 600,000 people had filed claims for asbestos-related compensation, costing businesses more than $54 billion. It predicted that 500,000 to 2.4 million more claims could be filed in the years ahead, costing businesses as much as $210 billion. The study also found that 65 percent of compensation over the last decade was paid to people with noncancerous conditions.
 Previous efforts to find a legislative solution, including one last year, have foundered, and there remain significant political obstacles this year even though Senator Arlen Specter, the Pennsylvania Republican who heads the Judiciary Committee, plans to circulate a new proposal soon and the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist of Tennessee, has hopes to get a measure to the floor quickly.
 Mr. Specter has announced a hearing on the issue on Tuesday. He has been relying on Edward R. Becker, a senior federal appeals judge from Philadelphia, to try to broker a deal between the various parties that would create a large fund sponsored by companies and their insurers to supplant the courts. 
 Last year, such a deal proved elusive.
 The fight over an asbestos measure pits one of the most important constituencies of the Republicans -- big and small businesses and their insurers -- against two traditional bases of the Democrats: the trial lawyers and the labor unions. The lawyers and the unions have maintained that last year's proposals would not provide enough money for victims, would unfairly shield many companies from liability and would adversely affect plaintiffs who are close to completing their cases in the courts.
 The critics of the administration say the White House is approaching revisions in asbestos and tort law just the way they say it has done with Social Security: exaggerating the nature of the problems as well as catering to special interests.
 Senator Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington, denounced the president's plan as inadequate and said the administration should instead focus on prohibiting the production and use of asbestos.
 ''I am deeply troubled that the president spoke of ending liability for companies that have used asbestos without addressing the need to ban this deadly substance,'' Senator Murray said. ''The current asbestos liability crisis is not just a function of a high number of lawsuits. It is also a function of the deadly nature of asbestos and the long latency period for asbestos disease, which can be up to 40 years.'' 
 Mr. Bush's presentation on Friday was the third time in three days that he has advanced the cause of changing the tort system. 
 On Thursday he met with senior lawmakers on a proposal that would move many class-action lawsuits to federal courts from state ones. The proposal is widely supported by businesses and strongly opposed by consumer, environmental and civil rights organizations, which say it would close the door to many meritorious claims. The federal judiciary, whose members have maintained that the change could jam their courts with new claims, also opposes it.
 The class-action bill, which has broad bipartisan support, is widely expected to be the first tort law measure taken up by the Senate early next month.
 On Wednesday, Mr. Bush traveled to Madison County in southwestern Illinois, the site of courts that business interests say are among the most sympathetic to plaintiffs in the nation, to urge Congress to impose tight limits on medical malpractice litigation.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush ended a week of speeches on tort reform by pushing for limits on liability in asbestos claims. (Photo by Susan Walsh/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (91%); ASBESTOS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TOXIC TORTS (90%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (78%); APPROVALS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (77%); POISONINGS (77%); TORTS (77%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); SHIPBUILDING (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (63%) Asbestos; Suits and Litigation; Law and Legislation; Hazardous and Toxic Substances

COMPANY: HALLIBURTON CO (84%); RAND CORP (60%)

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (84%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (84%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (84%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); DICK CHENEY (59%) Stephen Labaton; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2005



148 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Underground Journal; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: At the Bottom of the Steps, Getting a Little Off the Top

BYLINE: By DAVID KOEPPEL

 BODY:
When Tommy Gangi talks about getting a cut in the subway, he is not referring to an injury he got colliding with an aggressive straphanger. Mr. Gangi is in fact talking about his hair, which he has cut in an unlikely and arguably unglamorous spot: a barbershop in a subway station in Lower Manhattan called the Royal Barber Shop, where the rumblings of the A train can be heard with regularity. 
 In a fashion-conscious city full of well-dressed and well-coiffed New Yorkers, a subterranean barber who charges less than $13 for a haircut might seem an anomaly. With their fluorescent lighting and no-frills ambience, the shops, which first appeared in the subway about 80 years ago, are barely noticed by the thousands of passers-by every day. 
 There is no official count on the number of barbershops in the New York City subway system -- though there are at least 10, according to several estimates -- or how many there once were. 
 Mr. Gangi's allegiance is to Dominick Abruscato, who is 56 and has owned the Royal since 1987. The shop has been at the Fulton Street-Broadway Nassau subway station since 1937, said Mr. Abruscato. 
 ''A haircut from Dominick is better than sex,'' said Mr. Gangi, who lives in Manhattan and has been a customer for more than 20 years. 
 Mr. Abruscato started cutting hair in Sicily when he was 8, and by the time he was 14, he was a full-time barber. After coming to the United States in the 1960's, he spent more than 20 years cutting hair at salons across the metropolitan area. He started working at the Royal in 1980, and by 1987, he owned the shop and was managing three employees.
 ''When I first came here, I didn't like working downstairs,'' he said. ''I wasn't looking for a location like this, but I got used to it. This isn't exactly prime real estate.'' 
 While Mr. Abruscato gets a lot of walk-in business from commuters, he relies mostly on a steady clientele of neighborhood Wall Street types and local residents. 
 The Royal, like many old-fashioned barbershops, has the feel of a retro men's club. The walls are decorated with photographs of Marilyn Monroe and Yankee legends like Yogi Berra. The magazines are strictly testosterone driven: Penthouse, Playboy, Maxim and Stuff. Mr. Abruscato keeps bottles of Absolut vodka and Chambord liqueur available for customers for special occasions like birthdays. 
 Still, Mr. Abruscato said he was among a dying breed. Figures from the Bureau of Labor Statistics suggest that the outlook for barbers appears bleak. In 1997, there were about 71,000 barbers in the United States. In 2001, that number had dropped to 54,000. And the number could drop even further, because many barbers are retiring, and a relatively small number of cosmetology students are choosing to obtain licenses to work as barbers. 
 Joe Cunningham, a subway historian who gives tours for the New York Transit Museum, said subway barbershops began to appear around the 20's, joining other businesses setting up shop underground. By midcentury, the subway was a popular place to dine, buy clothes and have clothes dry-cleaned. 
 Many of these stores began to disappear in the 1960's, victims of increasing subway crime, a deteriorating economy and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's construction projects. The subterranean barbershops that survive are still popular with a certain type of male customer. 
 ''People are not looking for an experience of grooming splendor,'' Mr. Cunningham said. ''The classic barbershops are places where people sit and talk. In the subway it's part of an urban experience for people in a hurry,'' who want convenience and low prices. 
 Not far from Royal is Subway Haircutters, run by Michael David. The shop, which is at the Fulton Street stop for the 4 and 5 lines, is about half the size of Mr. Abruscato's and has only one chair. Most cuts are a bargain-basement $8.
 Mr. David, 30, an Israeli immigrant, has worked in the Diamond District, owned a video store, and, for the last two years, run his own subway barbershop. 
 One of Mr. David's regular customers is Michael Sullivan of Brooklyn Heights, who said he had had enough of paying higher prices at chic salons.
 ''I like the whole subway thing, and my haircuts were getting really expensive,'' Mr. Sullivan said. ''I don't have to say much to Michael. I tell him, 'Just give me a shorter version of what I had last time.''' 
 Barbering underground has its advantages and its downsides, barbers say. On the plus side, they never have to worry about shoveling snow in front of their shops. Rents are considerably lower than for any aboveground location. 
 But there are the rowdy teenagers who bang on store windows and the homeless people who on occasion take refuge near a shop entrance. A subway station can also be like a netherworld, Mr. David said, with ''no sign of daylight or the outside world'' for hours on end. 
 It is also hard to overcome a popular perception that a subway haircut is to grooming as McDonald's is to haute cuisine. 
 On a blog called Thunk, Jihan Crowther recently described the awful experience of a friend who had his hair cut in the subway. 
 ''I have a friend who has a black haircut cloud over his head,'' she said. ''He insists on getting his hair cut at the subway stop near his office. He goes in every few weeks for his usual snip-snip and I can always tell when it has happened. Cowlicks everywhere!''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Philip Lazzara, left, and Dominick Abruscato tended to their customers last week at the Royal Barber Shop underground in Lower Manhattan. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); BARBER SHOPS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (76%); CITIES (71%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); MEN (64%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (63%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (62%); STATISTICS (60%) Barbers and Barbering; Transit Systems; Subways ; Stations and Terminals (Passenger)

ORGANIZATION: Royal Barber Shop (NYC)

PERSON: David Koeppel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



149 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Style Desk; BOITE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Not Su Madre's Miami

BYLINE: By JUDY CANTOR

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
ON a chilly winter night, when the temperature dips below 60 degrees, Miami masquerades as a city of seasons. Jackets and boots were on display after midnight one Thursday in late December at the District, where friends comfortably squeezed together on suede sofas, and the courtyard patio rippled with bobbing heads when Billy Idol sang ''Dancing With Myself.''
 As patrons crowded the bar for two-for-one drinks, the bartender, Marko Popovic, passed out small plastic cups of ''pichka,'' a cocktail with a Southern Comfort kick, whose name, he warned, might better be left unmentioned in Belgrade, Serbia. The concoction tastes like a tropical cough syrup, but like the District's decor -- a fusion of global hippie and modern minimal -- and the D.J.'s mix of 80's club hits and 90's rock and electroclash, the drink works. 
 No matter what the weather, Thursday nights at the District never really feel like Miami, at least in the fabulously hot and incredibly superficial way the city is famous for, which is why locals who like indie rock and retro pop come to the District each week. In a town where club crowds can look as if they have gathered at a party for ''The Swan'' pageant, the regulars at the District show off style with Afros and messed-up mullets, geeky chic eyeglasses, thrift shop T-shirts and glam dresses by local designers. Many are second- and third-generation Miamians of Latin descent, but they leave the salsa dancing to their parents. House music, the sound of South Beach, is on permanent exile. 
 ''Here the atmosphere is relaxed,'' said Adam Zimmon, a guitarist on a break from a recording session in his nearby loft. ''It's stylized but not pretentious. These people look like this all the time. It's not like they're getting home from work and putting on their clubbing outfit.''
 Located in the Design District, part of the rapidly redeveloping downtown area billed as the new urban Miami, the District is itself a sign of the changing neighborhood. Its ''new American'' menu is tailored for a well-off clientele, which also frequents Grass, an elegant Asian-style lounge across the street. Grass wears the snooty airs of a high-end club. (Hostesses in black stand at the roped-off entrance.) Inside it's a stylish and romantic alfresco space, dotted with black banquettes and low tables under thatched-style roofs.
 ''The people here are artists, graphic designers, guys in bands,'' said a promoter, Joshua Menendez, the organizer of the District's Thursday night party. ''They're the people who really matter in Miami.''

The District
35 NE 40th Street, Miami; (305) 576-7242.

GETTING IN -- Just bring your ID.
DRESS CODE -- For women, skirts over jeans or dresses, knee-high boots; for men, velvet jackets, Converse tennis shoes.
D.J. PICKS -- The Dears, Michael Jackson, Prince and Belle and Sebastian.
SIGHTINGS -- The Montreal band the Stills; members of the Magnetic Fields and New Found Glory; the Argentine rocker Fito Paez.
SIGNATURE DRINK -- Pichka cocktail (Southern Comfort, triple sec, amaretto, peach schnapps, Jack Daniel's, orange juice, cranberry juice), $9.


GRAPHIC: Photo: AT THE BAR -- A busy night in the District. (Photo by Barbara B. Fernandez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); POP & ROCK (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); DANCE (71%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (69%); MUSIC (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%) Nightclubs and Cabarets

ORGANIZATION: District, The (Miami Nightclub)

PERSON: Judy Cantor

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%) Miami (Fla) 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



150 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: A Little Fund Manager Punches Above Its Weight

BYLINE: By RIVA D. ATLAS

 BODY:
SIGNS that Calamos Investments was becoming red hot could be found a few years ago in the parking lot of the business, a small, family-run asset management company that had made its name in the relatively obscure market for convertible bonds. 
 Calamos operates out of a small, red-brick building in Naperville, Ill., 25 miles west of Chicago. But since 2001, as the performance of its mutual funds began to attract hordes of investors, it has had to hire dozens of new employees. Because their cars began to overflow the lot, they started double-parking in front of the office until the firm leased space at a nearby building.
 Calamos will move later this year to a glass and granite structure just up the road, with four times the current space. The move is long overdue for the company, whose total assets, including about $20 billion in mutual funds, were $36.4 billion at the end of November, up from $9 billion in 2001. 
 Calamos was the 11th best-selling fund manager last year through November, according to the Financial Research Corporation. That is telling for such a small company, whose assets under management rank it just 47th among mutual fund managers. Its largest fund, Calamos Growth, has been among the most popular mutual funds, attracting $5.9 billion in new money in 2004 through November. In March, Calamos raised $2 billion for a new closed-end fund that invests in both stocks and bonds. The company, run by John Calamos Sr., 64, and Nick Calamos, his nephew, 43, sold shares in an initial public offering at the end of October. By year-end, its stock was up 50 percent. 
 The transformation of the little asset management business into one of the most sought-after fund managers in the country is the latest chapter in the career of the older Mr. Calamos, a former broker who started his investment firm in 1977 and opened his first mutual fund in 1985, after developing an expertise in convertible bonds. 
 Over time, the company has used its research skills as a springboard to a growing array of investment products. Next on the list is a new international growth fund and an expansion in hedge funds. 
 Mr. Calamos says the company can handle its higher profile. ''It hasn't been a problem,'' he said. ''We've still got a lot of room for growth.''
 Calamos funds have been popular for two reasons, said Geoffrey Bobroff, a fund industry consultant in Providence, R.I. ''Growth stocks have been in a bear market, but they have done well,'' he said. Calamos Growth has had a return of 12.4 percent, annualized, over the last three years, 8.7 percentage points ahead of similar funds, on average, according to Morningstar. 
 Just as important, Mr. Bobroff said, is that Calamos has been unscathed by the trading scandals that over the last year have tarred many larger, more established growth stock specialists, including Janus, Putnam and AIM Investments. Those three all had net outflows from their funds last year through November, according to Financial Research. 
 But the rapid growth at Calamos has some analysts worried that its performance will suffer. ''Bells should be going off right now,'' said Roy Weitz, editor of FundAlarm.com, an industry watchdog.
 Assets at Calamos Growth ballooned to $13 billion at the end of November from just $145 million in 2000. The fund's portfolio now includes 200 stocks, twice as many as it did two years ago, said Kerry O'Boyle, an analyst at Morningstar. ''We're wondering whether the fund can continue the same level of performance,'' he said.
 Mr. Calamos said that there was no reason for concern. ''We can handle the assets,'' he said. What gives him confidence, he said, is his company's unusual system for managing money. It runs eight varieties of funds, from its growth stock fund to offerings specializing in value stocks, convertible bonds and junk bonds, as well as mixtures of those various investments. 
 John and Nick Calamos are the portfolio managers for all of the funds; John's son, John Jr., helps to run four of them. 
 That structure is not unique, Mr. Bobroff said, noting that at other small companies -- Gabelli Asset Management, headed by Mario Gabelli, is one -- the founder often oversees several portfolios. What is unusual about the Calamos method is that one team of analysts supports all the funds, whether they focus on growth or value stocks, or bonds or convertibles.
 Calamos analysts look at the full range of securities issued by the 5,000 or so companies tracked in a proprietary system developed by Nick Calamos. They are asked to determine which financial instruments -- stock, bonds or convertible debt -- are the most attractive. Analysts evaluate companies using a variety of screens that track factors like increases in debt and in cash on the books, as well as acceleration of earnings and return on invested capital. 
 The Calamos approach reflects the business's roots in convertible securities, which have grown in popularity as a relatively safe way to gain exposure to stocks. The securities are convertible to shares of the issuer's stock, yet holders of the securities receive fixed interest payments and are paid ahead of regular shareholders if a company goes bankrupt. To properly evaluate them, according to the firm, the underlying stock needs to be assessed as well.
 ''You can't be a good convertibles analyst unless you understand equities,'' said Nick Calamos, who joined his uncle at the firm in 1983. Their first mutual fund concentrated on convertible bonds, and the opening of Calamos Growth in 1990 was a natural extension, he said, because many stocks underlying convertible bonds tend to be growth stocks. 
 A high-yield bond fund followed in 1999, he said, because ''you can't be a good convertible analyst without understanding debt.'' In 2002, Calamos rounded out its offerings with a value fund. In several funds, Nick Calamos said, he has been investing in technology companies. He pared his technology holdings before that market crashed in 2000. With the economy improving now, he said, spending by corporations is picking up, and technology companies are having an easier time raising capital.
 Calamos favors Amazon.com, having bought its convertibles four years ago, when they fell as low as 40 cents on the dollar. ''We thought the company would survive,'' Mr. Calamos said, adding that even if it didn't, the firm was confident that its mutual funds would be protected because the convertible bonds would be paid off first in the event of a bankruptcy filing.
 By 2002, as Amazon's business stabilized, Mr. Calamos bought the company's stock, as well, for the Growth fund, in which it remains one of the largest holdings. He sold the convertible debt in 2003 when the bonds reached 100 cents on the dollar. 
 Mr. Weitz of FundAlarm.com said that parallel investing across multiple funds can be risky. Janus, for example, now acknowledges that it had excessive concentrations in some technology companies when the market plunged in 2000. But Jeff Kelley, a spokesman for Calamos, said that the overlap among the stock funds is generally less than 10 percent. 
 The next step in Calamos's expansion is likely to be hedge funds, whose customers include wealthy individuals and institutions like pension funds. Calamos plans to use some proceeds from its public offering to start such funds, according to filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Hedge funds attracted record sums last year. Regulators have raised concerns that mutual fund managers who also run hedge funds may steer their best ideas to the hedge funds because of the vastly higher fees associated with these portfolios.
 John Calamos says he is confident about his company's ability to handle any potential conflict. ''We will look at it very closely,'' he said. ''Understanding what is going on in the hedge fund community,'' Mr. Calamos said, ''will make us better managers.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Nick Calamos, left, and John Calamos Sr. in their office in Naperville, Ill., last month. Rapid growth of their fund business is forcing a move to larger quarters. (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)Chart: ''Growth Spurts''The Calamos mutual funds have grown rapidly. Data are for equity and bond funds. Figures are in billions.Graphs track fund flows and fund assets from 1995-2004. (2004 through November)(Source by Financial Research Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (97%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Company and Organization Profiles; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: CALAMOS ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Calamos, John S; Calamos Investments (Co)

TICKER: CLMS (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: Riva D Atlas

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (51%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



151 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: Big Companies May Be Bargains, Depending on How You Define 'Big'

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
AGAIN in 2004, size wasn't an advantage in the stock market. For the sixth year in a row, mutual funds that invested in small-capitalization stocks fared better than those that owned large-cap ones. By now, some money managers say, the real bargains are in the bigger stocks. But how big do the companies need to be?
 Some fund managers argue that when the market shifts in favor of large-cap stocks, the very biggest -- the 119 United States companies with market capitalizations of more than $20 billion, which are often called megacap stocks -- will benefit most.
 ''It's a fantastic time for investors to upgrade the quality of their portfolios,'' said Bill Nygren, manager of the Oakmark and Oakmark Select mutual funds. Historically, megacap stocks have had price-to-earnings ratios above the average for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, but the gap has almost disappeared, Mr. Nygren said. He predicted that investors would be paying a premium for megacaps three to five years from now, so these stocks should outperform the market in the meantime. 
 Last year, Mr. Nygren loaded up on big, brand-name stocks, including Wal-Mart, Citigroup, Time Warner, Anheuser-Busch, McDonald's, Walt Disney and Gap. Both of the Oakmark funds he manages fall into the large-cap value category, and value funds are not generally associated with well-known companies. But he said the ''value'' label wasn't static. ''We think owning great, growth businesses at average prices,'' he said, ''is just as much value investing as owning average companies at great prices.'' 
 Last year, though, the large-cap funds that favored the smaller end of the S.&P. 500 index tended to do better than funds that emphasized the megacaps. The Oakmark fund returned 11.7 percent in 2004, and Oakmark Select returned 9.7 percent, compared with an average return of 12.9 percent for large-cap value funds, according to Morningstar Inc.
 The Hotchkis and Wiley Large Cap Value fund, however, had better returns than the category average last year, precisely because the manager dipped into smaller stocks. The average market capitalization for its stocks is $13 billion, compared with $90 billion for the S.&P. 500. The smallest companies in the fund are in the range of $2 billion to $3 billion, which many investors consider the low end of the midcap range. The fund had total returns of 21.7 percent in 2004.
 But unlike some of his peers, Sheldon J. Lieberman, the manager of the fund at Hotchkis and Wiley, doesn't see the tide turning toward megacaps. ''The opportunities don't tend to be in the larger names,'' Mr. Lieberman said, ''because they're very closely followed by the Street, and tend to be efficiently priced.''
 But he isn't entirely averse to buying stocks with market capitalizations of more than $20 billion. One of the fund's top holdings is MetLife, the insurer based in New York. Mr. Lieberman said he favored financial stocks now -- and insurance companies in particular -- because he thought investors had overestimated how badly financial services companies would be hurt by rising interest rates.
 Mr. Lieberman began buying shares of MetLife for the fund as soon as the insurer went public in 2000. At the time, MetLife had excess capital on its books, he said, and its management pledged to use some of it to buy back shares. That helped the share price, which has roughly tripled over the last four years.
 Mr. Nygren also said he thought financial stocks had been oversold, and he likes media and retailing stocks for the same reason. He said these three sectors had a lot of ''fallen growth stocks'' -- stocks with above-average growth prospects for their industries, but whose prices had either fallen or remained stagnant during the economic recovery.
 He described Time Warner as one such stock, because of continuing investor pessimism over the merger of Time Warner and AOL four years ago. ''We think you're paying a fair price for the old Time Warner assets now,'' he said, ''and on top of that, you're getting AOL, the largest Internet service provider.'' 
 He has also been buying more shares of Gap -- a stock that hit a high of about $50 in early 2000, then plummeted to around $10 in 2002. By the end of 2004, it was trading at around $21, or roughly 17 times analysts' average estimate for earnings per share this year.
 Retail stocks in general are trading at a price-to-earnings multiple of about 15, based on earnings estimates for 2005, Mr. Nygren said. ''It would be hard to argue that the Gap isn't a premium stock,'' he said, adding that he thought sales at Gap would grow at an above-average rate for a clothing retailer, and that the company had better-than-average opportunities abroad.
 Just as large-cap funds have lagged behind small-cap funds in recent years, growth funds have trailed value funds. So it has been an especially difficult time for large-cap growth managers. But the Calvert Large Cap Growth fund has been among the handful of exceptions. It returned 16.7 percent last year, versus a category average of 8 percent, according to Morningstar.
 The fund's charter allows its manager, John Montgomery, to put up to 20 percent of the portfolio in small-cap stocks, and up to 10 percent in foreign stocks. That helps explain how the fund has fared better than its peers, he said, but he emphasized that the fund wasn't ''multicap'': generally, he said, the portfolio had closer to 5 to 10 percent in small-cap stocks and 3 to 5 percent in foreign stocks.
 The fund is light on energy stocks -- about 3 percent of the portfolio -- which were among the best-performing stocks last year. One reason is the fund's socially responsible mandate, which restricts it from investing in companies that it believes are big polluters. Although some energy stocks pass the Calvert screening process, many do not.
 Mr. Montgomery also said he thought megacap stocks could start beating the market again soon. ''If we do have a turnaround in 2005 to the large-cap side, I think the very large stocks in the spectrum will do better than the S.&P. over all,'' he said.
 Stuart Schweitzer, the global market strategist for JPMorgan Fleming, said he agreed -- up to a point. ''If bigger-cap companies are able to live up to their earnings potential, then they look relatively attractive, based on future earnings,'' he said.
 Their size and power help these companies achieve economies of scale, he said. They also tend to have more opportunities to sell their products and services overseas. That means they benefit more from the decline in the dollar, because some of their revenue is in currencies like the euro and the Japanese yen.
 But Mr. Schweitzer said that a long decline in the dollar could ultimately be a double-edged sword for multinational companies based in the United States, because, over time, a cheaper dollar could hamper economic growth in some countries in which American multinationals do business.
 For instance, he estimated that economic growth in Japan and Germany would range from 1.8 percent to 2 percent in 2005. ''That's pretty meager,'' he said, adding that each nation's economy will have to struggle against the relative strength of its currency, which usually makes a country's goods more expensive overseas.
 For the shares of multinational companies to outperform the market again, he said, investors would need to become more optimistic about economic growth in Western Europe and Japan.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Small but Beautiful''Small-cap mutual funds have regularly outperformed large caps in recent years.Graph tracks small and large-cap funds over the past decade.(Source by Morningstar)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BONDS (78%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (63%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (55%); WALT DISNEY CO (54%)

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (63%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); DIS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (63%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (55%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (55%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (54%)

PERSON: J Alex Tarquinio

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



152 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ON THE CONTRARY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Are Spendthrift Americans Really the Problem?

BYLINE: By DANIEL AKST. 
Daniel Akst is a journalist and novelist who writes often about business.; E-mail: culmoney@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
AS if an orgy of holiday spending weren't enough to remind us, the latest government figures provide a stark indictment of our profligacy. Personal saving as a percentage of disposable income was just 0.3 percent in November. Because savings, in the form of investment, are the lifeblood of the economy, our spendthrift ways will soon impoverish us or, at the very least, our children. We are sinners all.
 This sounds compelling enough. But much as it may offend the many critics of materialism -- which I define as ''spending by others'' -- the whole notion that Americans don't save enough is overblown. Savings are hard to measure; the government's Bureau of Economic Analysis almost surely understates the true figure. And while we could all stand a little more thrift in our lives, we are in no danger of spending ourselves into oblivion. Indeed, absent the willingness of Americans to spend, the global economy would sputter, and millions of people in poor but rapidly industrializing countries like China and India would be far worse off. 
 Perhaps the biggest problem with the way the government measures savings is its failure to take account of changing asset values like rising home prices. If we looked at the balance sheets of American families, instead of just subtracting consumption from income, we would find a more favorable picture, despite some short-term volatility. 
 In a speech last fall, Roger W. Ferguson Jr., vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, expressed concern that households weren't saving more, but he acknowledged that the ratio of household net worth to disposable income ''has been essentially trendless over the past two decades,'' adding in a footnote that ''this alternative concept of the personal saving rate has, in fact, shown a slight positive trend since the early 1950's.''
 The treatment of capital gains in the widely cited saving figure leads to a number of problems. Consider pensions. Employer contributions are counted as personal income, but later -- and larger -- payouts to retirees register as consumption, while the capital appreciation that substantially finances these payouts registers nowhere.
 That's according to a Dartmouth economist, Steven F. Venti, who contended in a 2003 report written with two Dartmouth colleagues, Annamaria Lusardi and Jonathan Skinner, that the treatment of pensions had played a large role in dragging down savings to record levels, ''accounting for over 40 percent of the total decline in the personal saving rate from 1988 through the turn of the century.''
 Other measurement issues also play a role. In a paper on alternative measures of personal saving, Marshall B. Reinsdorf, a research economist at the Bureau of Economic Analysis, asserts that adjusting the calculation for several such factors, including the treatment of spending on durable goods and the effect of inflation on interest rates, can account for much of the apparent decline in personal saving in the 1990's.
 All this is to say nothing of savings by other sectors of society. After all, businesses, through retained earnings and capital appreciation, save, too. So can governments, when they run surpluses. Foreign capital also helps to satisfy the nation's investment needs, but with foreign investment comes foreign ownership. And if history is any guide, Americans will save more when interest rates rise and asset prices fall.
 If there is a saving problem lately, it is in large part a tax problem in disguise. During the Bush administration, the rate of saving by the United States as a whole has been undermined by growing federal deficits arising from unwise and unfair tax cuts.
 ''Reducing the federal budget deficit -- or preferably moving it to surplus -- appears to be the most effective action that could be taken to augment domestic saving,'' said none other than Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, in a November speech. ''Corporate saving in the United States has risen to its highest rate in decades and is unlikely to increase materially.''
 I like to think that sooner or later the political system will right itself. As an inveterate cheapskate, meanwhile, I am happy to join in the great Puritan tradition of condemning self-indulgence, but only on aesthetic grounds: materialism is distasteful even if it does reflect a laudable democratization of affluence. We should all save more, and many of us are too caught up with getting and spending. But these are moral questions more than economic ones. Look at the famously thrifty Japanese. They live badly by American standards, and their economy has been in the doldrums for years. 
 Maybe the problem isn't that we spend too much. Maybe the problem is that everyone else spends too little.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAVINGS RATES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FAMILY (77%); CHILDREN (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (71%); TRENDS (71%); HOME PRICES (66%); INTEREST RATES (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (59%) United States Economy; Savings; Taxation

PERSON: ROGER W FERGUSON JR (50%) Daniel Akst; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



153 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 4548 words

HEADLINE: Manufaketure

BYLINE: By Ted C. Fishman. 
Ted C. Fishman is the author of ''China, Inc.: How the Rise of the Next Superpower Challenges America and the World,'' to be published next month by Scribner and from which this article is adapted.

 BODY:
Most of the pharmacies in China that dispense Western-style medicines have an antiquated, if reassuring, air about them. There are no posters on the walls for brand-name drugs. Candy is not for sale. Photo processing is not available. Druggists work in long white lab coats and surgical hats that could have been salvaged from a World War II hospital ship. Some pharmacies require prescriptions for the most potent drugs, others only an earnest chat with a druggist. Drug orders create paperwork that passes through three or four bureaucratic layers before reaching the solemn cashier, who issues a handwritten receipt. 
 Such an old-fashioned scene might argue for just how far China trails the United States and other advanced economies, where both science and marketing are seemingly years ahead. Yet these pharmacies also represent a current and urgent battleground in one of the most important struggles between the developed world and China's surging economic power. This is the fight over intellectual property and the related investments essential to the knowledge economy, that amorphously defined new world in which better ideas, not faster, cheaper hands create jobs and wealth. Despite their appearances, Chinese pharmacies are stocked with expertly copied versions of some of the world's most profitable medicines, patented products that generate hundreds of billions of dollars' worth of business in the United States, Europe and Japan. Even the very latest miracle drugs sell in China for a fraction, often one-tenth or less, of what their authorized equivalents in the United States cost.
 Foreign companies lose control of their goods in two related ways: to counterfeiters who copy products and then sell them under different or altered brand names, and to pirates who make look-alikes and try to pass them off as the real thing. Using a lost-sales calculus, which measures the losses to foreign companies by determining the value of the dubious goods sold, the U.S. Department of Commerce estimates that American companies, as a result of counterfeiting and piracy, lose between $20 billion and $24 billion annually. The Japanese sacrifice even more: $34 billion. Throw in the sales lost by the European Union, and the cumulative losses for the three economic blocs approach $80 billion.
 While losses to American and other advanced economies are high, China's appropriation and dissemination of the world's most valuable products and technologies, if they continue unabated, will ultimately mean a lot more than dollars lost. China's pirating and counterfeiting could radically change the way entertainment, fashion, medicine and services are created and sold. The companies, big and small, that Americans work for could be weakened. Chinese practices might reduce the prices of what we buy, by undermining the powerful companies that now control essential but expensive goods like drugs and computer software -- or these practices might, should China's unwillingness to accede to American copyright demands ignite trade wars, drive prices up. A U.S. consular official in China who requested anonymity -- few American officials are willing to speak openly about sensitive issues relating to China -- told me: ''Nothing has a higher priority in our trade policy than the fight to protect American intellectual property. It is every bit as important an effort for us as the war against weapons of mass destruction.''
 The analogy has some merit. As with stolen bombs, the chief worry about losing control over intellectual property is not that American manufacturers will forego sales opportunities; the fear is that its new ''owners'' will turn our own innovations back on us and inflict much broader economic damage. For the United States, the world's most formidable producer and exporter of invention, entertainment and trademarked brands, the stakes are highest. William H. Lash III, the Commerce Department official who is leading a new initiative to change China's practices, vows that the Bush administration will take ''whatever means are necessary'' to force a change.
 What makes China so troubling for American and other foreign companies is that the country is both a potential rival, with an alternative legal approach to intellectual property that limits their prospects in China and weakens their competitive strength globally, and a haven for pirates and counterfeiters. Start with the damage that fake drugs, for example, can do. Whether well made or poorly, they knock the genuine thing out of the market. According to the Chinese government-run press, hundreds of thousands of people in China have died from fake drugs that are either toxic or do not contain the active ingredients that users need. Drug companies report an increased threat from counterfeits entering the legitimate supply chains around the world. John Theriault, a 26-year veteran of the F.B.I. who now helps orchestrate anticounterfeiting efforts on behalf of Pfizer, says the company, working with Chinese authorities, has ''seized millions of units of counterfeit pharmaceuticals and thousands of kilos of compounds'' used to make them. In the worst cases, the fakes are commingled with legitimate products. ''You might have 2 bad pills mixed in with 28 good ones,'' he says. (In May 2003, 200,000 bottles that had been sold in U.S. pharmacies and that contained counterfeits of Lipitor, Pfizer's cholesterol-lowering pill, were recalled.) Fakes ''can ruin a brand and ruin a company,'' Theriault says.
 But if bad imitations are a big problem, good imitations may be a bigger one. Pfizer happens also to be a prime example of what is arguably the most serious threat to U.S. knowledge-based companies in China: its intellectual-property rules. In the case of drugs manufactured before China agreed (in order to join the World Trade Organization) to adopt patent standards closer to the international norm, production continues as before -- that is, without any licensing fees paid to Western companies. Even today, however, Chinese companies, many of them government-run, simply continue to ''reverse engineer'' -- that is, take the known ingredients and work backward to figure out a process that produces accurate copies of -- the drugs (including recent blockbusters) and pay the foreign patent holders nothing. Increasingly, China's pharmaceutical companies are rushing to claim patents for their copies before foreign patent owners can assert their rights. This is what happened with Pfizer's Viagra, which has multiple Chinese imitators: the Chinese authorities denied patent protection for Pfizer and opened the market to Chinese knockoffs instead. (Pfizer is appealing.)
 Press coverage in China of the Viagra decision made a point of noting that one Viagra pill costs 1 yuan to make, or around 12 cents, yet it sells for 98 yuan, or about $12. That sort of difference is sure to pique the attention of margin-squeezing Chinese manufacturers -- and perhaps encourage more copycats to rush into the market. Selling Chinese-made Viagra could turn a company into a future pharmaceutical Goliath, which would please China's rulers.
 Certainly China also has a public health incentive to see that drug prices are affordable for its people, who earn on average one-fortieth of what Americans do and who rarely have health insurance. China's strategy often works: the fear of knockoffs entering the market drives the price of the patented drug down, and many important drugs cost less there than they do nearly everywhere else in the world. (Historically, medicines lacking patent protection, either because a time limit has expired or because countries like India or China simply offer no such protection, can experience price drops of more than 90 percent.)
The threat to American interests is not hard to identify. According to the Milken Institute, Big Pharma employs 400,000 Americans directly, creates another 2.7 million jobs and contributes $172 billion to the U.S. economy. It is one of the most important engines of the knowledge economy; in 2003 the pharmaceutical industry invested $33.2 billion in drug research. That does not include the nearly $30 billion spent on life sciences by the publicly financed National Institutes of Health, which pays for research that leads to commercial drugs. Weaken the drug industry and you weaken one pillar of the U.S. economy. And Pfizer's trouble with Viagra in China demonstrates just how vulnerable the American knowledge economy is in a world where ideas ''protected'' by our laws trade freely nonetheless. Behind almost every blockbuster drug, killer software application or computer-chip design is a public infrastructure that has steered uncountable sums and the country's best talents toward their creation.
 Consider what an advanced economy like ours does best: make movies, produce television shows watched from Helsinki to Cape Town, turn out global pop stars. We design the software and processes that streamline the operations of giant retail chains and global high-tech manufacturers. We engineer advanced engines and the guts of the world's computers. We devise brands, durable corporate identities and fashions. We conjure new ways to move money and put it to work. We turn the most basic tasks into knowledge work. Modern printers, to note one example, rely heavily on the most advanced automated presses, computerized design tools and management and shipping for delivering materials efficiently to consumers and are as dependent on the latest software and technological innovations as a biotech lab. And those 2.8 million American workers who in recent years have lost their factory jobs? They don't learn new ways to use power tools. They are retrained in front of a computer; they learn to run the robots that do the jobs they used to do.
 The trouble with this apparently successful state of affairs is that the stuff we do best exists nowhere and everywhere at the same time. Some of our most valuable things -- software codes, pharmaceutical processes, car designs, digital movie files -- weigh nothing and, as e-mail attachments, can move at the speed of light. To learn American ideas and procedures is all but the same as owning them. (Unless, of course, laws successfully prohibit their co-option.) In contrast, most of what China makes that finds its way into the world market is physical. The Chinese can borrow and steal the designs to our best products all they want. For instance, 90 percent of all software running on Chinese computers has been pirated and bought openly in stores for around $3 a copy. But if Americans wanted to borrow and steal what China makes, we would have to march in with an army and commandeer Chinese factories and workers. Western powers and the Japanese tried that in the mid-19th and -20th centuries, respectively, and will not repeat the experiment. China, however, can in a sense colonize the developed world simply through careful study and a willingness to go its own way on intellectual-property protection.
If China's commitment to wipe out commercial piracy and counterfeiting were judged by the laws that the country has on its books, the Chinese government would seem to be as strict as any. China has made a great show of cracking down in the past few years. Newspapers and television news programs regularly feature stories about government raids on massive counterfeiting operations. Hundreds of thousands of DVD's and dozens of duplicating machines seized here, a warehouse of CD's there and trucks full of sham designer handbags somewhere else. In December, China passed a much-awaited national law that criminalizes piracy and counterfeiting, allowing courts to jail violators for up to seven years; before, only civil penalties applied. The new law is unlikely to spur enforcement, however. And even if it does send people to prison, that may only prove a boon to the copycat economy. For example, just before Christmas, Sony announced the results of an investigation into Chinese operations that were daily turning out 50,000 fake PlayStation 2 game consoles and accessories: a container loaded with fake parts was found to have visited a prison in Shenzhen just long enough for inmates to assemble the parts. The Chinese themselves take it as given that powerful government interests stand behind the trade in counterfeit or pirated goods. What to foreigners may seem to be an aggressive action against a big piracy ring can look to the Chinese like a sort of St. Valentine's Day Massacre, where one powerful manufacturer uses police cover to eliminate a weaker one.
 As the legal code grows fatter, so, too, do the supply and sophistication of fake goods. The places they are sold no longer look like back-alley stalls but like Main Street retailers. Near Beijing's diplomatic row, two outdoor markets once famous for knockoff fashions have been combined into a large, bright department store-like building with escalators, tailors on site and merchants with business cards, international shipping accounts and full stocks of fake fashions, designer tableware, brand-name musical instruments and, of course, thousands upon thousands of fake Swiss watches. The most common punishment counterfeiters face is the confiscation of whatever products they have in stock. Sometimes a pitiful fine is levied. China's National Copyright Administration cites with much fanfare 52 raids on video shops in 2003, but the total fines amounted to $6,900, or an average of $132 for each offender.
 China's lax policies on copyright protection offer the country the advantages of both bread and circuses. Andrew Mertha, a political scientist at Washington University who has worked with Chinese and American officials on Chinese intellectual-property law, summarizes the circus side of things: ''If you're the Chinese leadership, do you want people idling around in the street, complaining about how unhappy they are, or do you want them home watching Hollywood movies?'' In other words, the government is slow to crack down on the piracy of entertainment products because these serve its social agenda. But is there any doubt that if vendors suddenly found a brisk market for DVD's promoting Tibetan independence or the virtues of Falun Gong, the outlawed religious sect, the DVD business would shrivel up overnight and all those anticounterfeiting laws on the books would find ready application? Indeed, when Sega's new online fantasy sports game ''Football Manager 2005'' had the gall to suggest that imaginary soccer leagues in Hong Kong, Taiwan and Tibet could be governed locally, rather than by the central government, China's Ministry of Culture banned the game on the grounds that it posed ''harm to the country's sovereignty and territorial integrity.'' Fines reached $3,600.
 Because the overwhelming majority of products pirated and counterfeited in China are, for now, sold mainly in China, they provide the Chinese people with ''bread'' insofar as they make all sorts of other goods affordable. Often, as in the case of medicines and medical devices, some foods, school textbooks and clothing, these counterfeit products are essential goods. Thus, any government crackdown is essentially a tax on China's needy consumers.
 Counterfeiters and pirates also serve the country by usurping the foreign technology that China needs to meet its ambitious industrial goals. In 2005, China will most likely be the world's third-largest trading nation, and counterfeiters give the country's increasing number of globally competitive companies the means to compete against powerful foreign rivals that pay for their use of proprietary technologies. In a broader geopolitical context, China's counterfeiters deny the world's advanced economies, especially in the U.S. and Japan, the opportunity to sell to China the valuable designs, trademarked goods, advanced technology and popular entertainment that the Chinese urgently desire but cannot yet produce on their own.
 Put another way, China's failure to police industry and to protect intellectual-property acts, in effect, like one of the greatest industrial subsidies in the world. Chinese manufacturers and industries freely exploit foreign ideas and technologies. ''China helps distribute technology that has already been paid for by the developed world, often by companies, but also by taxpayers who support the government labs where much of the most important industrial technology begins,'' says Oded Shenkar, a professor of business at Ohio State University and the author of the recent book ''The Chinese Century.'' ''And, seen as a subsidy, this one is a particularly good deal for the Chinese government because it doesn't have to pay for it.''
 For the most part, China fears no repercussions from its actions because the size and potential of its markets give China an undiminished (for now) power to lure the world's most advanced technology to its shores. For example, China for years has tendered the prospect of large, advanced transportation projects to foreign governments as a way to coax largess and technology from outsiders. When the Chinese government announced that is was considering high-speed magnetic levitation (''maglev'') cross-country train routes, Germany and Japan each put together government and business alliances to win future contracts there. The German industrial giants ThyssenKrupp and Siemens formed a partnership to build a nearly 20-mile maglev line in Shanghai to prove that they were up to the job. The line began operating last year while China was said to be considering which of several technologies to use. In December, workers for the German operation videotaped Chinese engineers poking around the maglev train's maintenance building in Shanghai at 3 a.m. one Saturday, apparently in search of confidential information. The manager of the Chinese operation that was a partner of the Germans clumsily excused the prowlers by saying they were merely taking part in a ''research and development'' exercise. Later that month, the government said that to save money it would eschew foreign designs for Chinese trains and, instead, employ newly developed indigenous maglev technology. Soon China could be exporting maglev trains for half the price Germany or Japan demand.
The generous and optimistic view of China's behavior is that it is a passing phase, and one not all that unusual for countries on the make. European powers once struggled to steal (and even transplant) one another's prime proprietary assets, like Mesoamerican gold, Brazilian rubber and Indonesian cloves. Blue-and-white Delftware was a Dutch attempt to copy China's porcelain works. At the dawn of the Industrial Revolution, American companies paid industrial spies to steal the designs of British machines. American theatrical producers routinely staged foreign operas and plays without permission; publishers sold dubious editions of English novels. More recently, Taiwan circumvented foreign patents and copyrights early in its post-World War II industrialization drive. And countries in Southeast Asia, Latin America, Africa and the former Soviet Union still operate well outside the developed world's norm for intellectual-property protection. Yet no other violators, past or present, match China's potential to change the rules of the world economy through piracy and counterfeiting.
 Countries like Brazil or Vietnam may be as lax about copying as China is, but they do not have the industrial infrastructure or the ranks of skilled scientists and engineers to pull off the more ambitious copies of, say, drugs and automotive vehicles. China, however, has the expertise and infrastructure to reverse-engineer and produce nearly anything. And it has a market large enough to support the enterprise. The Chinese motorcycle industry provides a good example. Honda entered China in the 1980's and soon captured one-fifth of the motorcycle marketplace. But cheaper Chinese imitations appeared, and Honda's market share quickly halved. The company found that staying in China required that it enter into partnerships with some of the very companies copying its bikes. Now, with as many as 100 motorcycle makers in China, the country is the largest such manufacturer in the world, producing 15 million motorcycles a year (half of all new vehicles sold worldwide). Still the copying persists. The Japanese government estimates that of the 11 million motorcycles made in China in 2002, 9 million were imitations of Japanese products.
 Oded Shenkar, who has long studied the Chinese automobile industry, argues that China's current regime is an essential factor in the country's ability to produce goods cheaply and get them quickly to market. In the U.S., about $1,000 of the price of an average car goes to pay for that model's product development; that's money the car maker invested over the course of years. Copiers pay none of that and can rush their products to market. ''Almost everything you can think of that is made in China has a very low technology investment embedded in it,'' Shenkar says. ''Drugs, DVD's, every trademark, software and whole production lines get copied. Some of the technology is transferred to China by multinational corporations and one way or another finds its way to other producers; others are simply 'borrowed.' The practices feed one another. Why pay for software to run a production line that is itself an unauthorized copy of someone else's technology and processes?''
 This sort of technological expropriation allows China to create industries nearly from scratch. Though it costs tens or hundreds of millions of dollars to develop new-model cars and motorcycles, China is home to hundreds of companies that produce the vehicles, many of them small companies with limited sales. ''You can't start an automobile company that sells a few thousand cars a year and still pay the $500 million or more it costs to develop a new model,'' Shenkar says. ''Where else in the world could a company that makes 30,000 units compete with one that makes a million units?'' The hopeful analogy that compares China with earlier, now-reformed ''borrowers'' simply ignores the scale of the long-term advantages that both encourage and result from China's copying.
Unless it comes up with a remedy that forces China to change, the United States will have to find its own solutions. Ken DeWoskin, a professor emeritus of Chinese studies at the University of Michigan and a consultant who advises PricewaterhouseCoopers on China, argues that China, as in the Viagra case, will increasingly take on the veneer of an American-style intellectual-property regime while finding ways at every step to assert its interests within that system. ''American pharmaceutical companies will be very seriously attacked by China's approach to I.P.,'' DeWoskin says. ''You can already see how China is changing the rules of the game.'' Americans, he notes, pay higher drug prices than consumers in other economies can sustain, all for products made here at home. A result is that we underwrite both our companies and the rest of the world's consumption. How much American consumers will tolerate other kinds of similarly expensive economic nationalism is hard to predict, but DeWoskin says he can envision the U.S. economy slowly but surely adopting such measures, much as Japan has to protect its domestic markets and companies. Japan's economy is structured to support national industries over foreign rivals. Japanese consumers, for instance, typically pay more at home for goods manufactured in their own country than consumers outside pay for Japan's products. Without realizing it, Americans have already tilted toward the Japanese arrangement in pharmaceuticals.
 One approach that vulnerable companies trumpet is speeding up the pace of innovation and rushing their products to market before Chinese competitors can catch up. But this solution overlooks the extent to which the Chinese themselves are increasingly skilled at hurrying copycat goods to market. Another approach is to sell legitimate goods at lower prices. Already, China's loose intellectual-property protection has done what years of legal and political pressures on the software and pharmaceutical industries in the U.S. have failed to do: forced powerful American companies to rethink, and often reduce, their prices. Chinese and Indian drugs that fall outside Western-style patent protection are drastically cheaper in poorer countries. Microsoft recently introduced less expensive versions of its software in developing countries where patent and copyright protections are weak (though the company has yet to do so in China).
 Another approach to the Chinese intellectual-property regime is to leverage its vitality. The Japanese may be showing the way here too. In September, Toyota surprised the world's automobile makers by announcing that it would join with China's government-owned First Auto Works Corporation to start building its Prius hybrid cars in Jilin, a northeast Chinese province. The innovative Prius is one of the world's most sought-after cars -- why would Toyota bring its hottest technology to China where it is almost certain to be carefully studied and boldly copied? The company says that it just wants to make more cars to meet demand. But an American management consultant who asked not to be identified told me that Toyota could have a deeper strategy that actually counts on Chinese manufacturers to usurp and adapt some of the car's technology. The car's central and perhaps most expensive component is its battery. China has already taken a sizable piece of the small-battery business away from leading Japanese manufacturers in recent years, thereby pushing battery prices down by 40 percent or more. The country is also a leading producer of electric motors. China is just the place, in other words, to drive down the price of the Prius's battery and motor, and if that happens it will give Toyota an even bigger jump on the rest of the world's car makers struggling to design and produce their own hybrids. Toyota's move into China could even transform the automotive industry by luring car buyers into hybrids faster. In effect, Toyota may be hoping to ride China's copycat tendencies past American competitors and into the top spot among world car makers -- provided, of course, that Chinese manufacturers do not do to Toyota what they did to Japan's motorcycle makers.
 It's a dangerous bargain, becoming partner to a system that's a relentless competitor at the same time. The Chinese government recently announced that it would suspend the purchase of large aircraft in 2005, claiming it wants to cool off an overheating domestic aviation industry. It's just as likely that China wants to give its aircraft industry a chance to catch up with foreign manufacturers like Boeing. If so, the American industrial giant, which has pinned much of its future growth on sales in China and has aggressively transferred technology to China in order to secure its place there, may well lose billions in sales -- and end up with a competitor that can match its current technology and beat it on cost. Last month, China announced the first international sale of 20 domestically produced midsize passenger planes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACIES (91%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (91%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (90%); COUNTERFEITING (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (77%); MARITIME PIRACY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); NEW ECONOMY (74%); PATENTS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); JOB CREATION (67%); EUROPEAN UNION (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); WORLD WAR II (56%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%) Counterfeit Merchandise; International Trade and World Market; Counterfeit Merchandise

PERSON: Ted C Fishman

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%) China

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



154 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: So Far in 2005, Nothing to Celebrate on Wall St.

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The stock market opened the year with a thud, declining on four of the five first trading days and ending the week with the three major market indexes firmly in the red.
 It was the worst five-day start to a year in more than a decade, and it could be attributed mainly to concerns about interest rates and inflation. 
 Minutes released on Tuesday by the Federal Reserve's policy-making body, the Federal Open Market Committee, showed that the Fed became more worried about inflation in December and that it appears poised to raise short-term rates aggressively. That prospect discouraged some traders, and a jobs report on Friday showing that 157,000 new jobs were created in December was not enough to propel stocks upward.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell by 179.05 points, or 1.7 percent, to close at 10,603.96. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined by 25.73 points, or 2.1 percent, to close at 1,186.19. The Nasdaq composite index dropped by 86.83 points, or 4 percent, to close at 2,088.61.
 In the bond market, where prices move in the opposite direction of yields, the yield on the benchmark 10- year Treasury note rose to 4.27 percent, from 4.22 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.WalgreenNYSE: WAGThe drugstore chain said its profits rose 31 percent in its first quarter, the largest quarterly earnings increase in four years. It cited strength in prescription drug sales despite a rising threat from mail-order rivals.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $41.50WEEK'S CHANGE: +8.16%EST. '04 P/E -- 27.21SonicNNM: SONCThe drive-in restaurant chain said its quarterly earnings rose 25 percent as sales of new products and increased customer traffic helped offset higher tomato and beef prices. It also raised its full-year profit targets.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $31.42WEEK'S CHANGE: +3.02%EST. '04 P/E: 25.90JetBlue AirwaysNNM: JBLUAirline stocks declined after Delta Air Lines lowered fares to woo back customers
 many of its competitors matched the lower prices. The moves are expected to negatively affect revenue in the industry.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $20.85WEEK'S CHANGE: -10.21%EST. '04 P/E: 55.16Circuit City StoresNYSE: CCThe nation's second-largest electronics chain, after Best Buy, said its December same-store sales tumbled 5.8 percent on lower sales of PC's, DVD players and video games. Analysts had expected a 1.6 percent drop.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $13.63WEEK'S CHANGE: -12.85%EST.'04 P/E: 31.77Panera BreadNNM: PNRAThe bakery cafe chain said its sales jumped 7.1 percent last month at stores open at least 18 months.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $46.14WEEK'S CHANGE: +14.43%EST. '04 P/E: 37.24Western WirelessNNM: WWCAShares of the cellphone service provider soared on news that Alltel was in talks to buy the company for roughly $4 billion. A deal could be reached within the next week, executives close to the talks said.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $36.52WEEK'S CHANGE: +24.64%EST. '04 P/E: 23.87UnocalNYSE: UCLThe China National Offshore Oil Corporation, China's state-controlled offshore oil company, is studying a possible bid for Unocal, the ninth-largest oil company in the United States, people close to the American company said.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $45.46WEEK'S CHANGE: +5.13%EST. '04 P/E: 11.27NDCHealthNYSE: NDCThe company, which processes electronic claims for hospitals, delayed filingits second-quarter results and said it would need to restate results from 2002 through the first quarter of 2005.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $15.51WEEK'S CHANGE: -16.57%EST. '04 P/E: 42.49(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); INTEREST RATES (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%) Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



155 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: New Threats to a Five-Year Run

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
DON'T count on a repetition of the brilliant five-year run of emerging-markets bond funds. That is the view of many analysts, who say the funds' recent strength has been unusual. 
 ''They have been on a tear,'' said Lynn Russell, who follows the sector for Morningstar. ''As those economies got stronger, and China wanted their commodities, those funds really did well.'' 
 But Ms. Russell and several other analysts said that a standard warning for investors -- that past performance may not be an indicator of future returns -- was rarely as appropriate as it is right now for emerging-markets bond funds. 
 As a group, the funds rose 13 percent in 2004, and averaged an annual gain of 16.7 percent for the last five years. For both periods, emerging-markets bond funds outperformed all other kinds of fixed-income funds tracked by Morningstar. 
 One problem flows directly from the sector's recent success. Its stunning performance over the last five years is partly attributable to a series of crises that hurt the sector in the preceding period, and emerging-markets bonds will have tougher comparisons to make in the future. 
 Edwin J. Ferrell, vice president and director of research at 40/86 Advisors, an institutional money management firm, recalled that after the Asian currency crisis of 1997 and the Russian default of 1998, the value of assets in many emerging markets plummeted, making some bonds very cheap. Since then, he said, the problems of most emerging markets have been comparatively minor. 
 ''The only other major hiccup was when Argentina defaulted in 2001,'' Mr. Ferrell said. ''After that, investors benefited from an improvement of economic fundamentals.''
 Some countries, including South Korea and Thailand, devalued their currencies and ended up with better external trade balances, he said. Devaluation made the exports of those countries more attractive globally and helped their domestic economies. That shift, along with years of orthodox economic financial policies, sent the bonds higher, Mr. Ferrell said.
 The emerging-markets bond sector benefited from growing credit strength in developing countries from Brazil to Russia. The brightening picture overseas had enormous appeal to American investors, particularly after the domestic stock market bubble burst in 2000. 
 During the bear market, many investors in the United States shifted money from stocks into bonds, helping to propel emerging-markets bond funds to impressive returns. But more recently, some of the spreads have narrowed between emerging-markets debt and United States Treasuries. In South Korea in the last four years, the yields on government bonds have fallen to about 4.5 percent from 15 percent because the country, like Russia, is now running a fiscal surplus and has issued little new debt. Yields on Russian debt have also dropped in the wake of an oil bonanza that has let Moscow call in existing debt. 
 The decline of the dollar has not been a dominant factor in much emerging-markets debt, analysts said, because much of that debt is denominated in dollars. But the dollar's fall has increased returns for some debt, particularly Russian and Korean bonds denominated in local currencies.
 Mohamed El-Erian, who runs the Pimco Emerging Markets Bond fund, which was up 11.8 percent in 2004 and about 17 percent, annualized, in the last three years, is cautious. ''There is a big elephant in the room,'' he said. ''How will the world account for the current account deficit that has been mounting for the United States?'' If rates in the United States spike up because investors lose confidence, he said, the impact could be rough for emerging markets, which tend to decline in times of volatility.
 Last week, after the minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee suggested that the Fed might raise short-term interest rates aggressively to combat the possible emergence of strong inflation, many emerging-markets bonds fell sharply.
 Mr. El-Erian said that in such circumstances, many investors would likely prefer the safest and most stable currencies, so they would put their money into United States bonds, rather than those of emerging markets. 
 Is there a reason to put a small portion of one's savings into emerging-markets funds? With interest rates in the United States still relatively low, yields on Brazilian government 10-year bonds, for example, are more than 8 percent, almost double that of comparable Treasuries. And if investors believe that specific emerging-market countries are improving their credit worthiness, their bonds could become more valuable. 
 But several analysts say investors should hedge their bets. Mr. El-Erian said that at the moment, it was best to stick with emerging-markets bonds that are denominated in dollars, to add some protection against internal political problems in other countries. He recalled a period of turmoil in Malaysia in 1998, when the government would not pay off debt in its local currency, but dollar-denominated debt was not affected. Dollar-denominated bonds also tend to be traded more widely on international markets.
 GENERALLY, analysts also say that during periods of volatility, it is better to hold bonds of shorter duration, which are less vulnerable to shifts in interest rates. 
 But even efforts to protect against global volatility, and against problems in individual markets, may not be enough to insulate investors against some jaw-dropping fluctuations. Last year, said Ms. Russell of Morningstar, the emerging-markets sector shifted wildly from season to season. For example, the group declined by roughly 6 percent in the second quarter and rose by about the same percentage in the fourth. 
 The sources of that volatility are varied. For example, Ms. Russell said that in 2002 the price of Brazil's bonds dropped significantly while investors worried that Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, then a presidential candidate, was unsympathetic to business and, if elected, might not put into effect the reforms that many investors were demanding. A year later, after investors had time to see Mr. da Silva in action, they concluded that the new president was indeed managing finances well, and Brazilian bonds rose sharply.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A bank clerk in Seoul. Some analysts say turmoil over a ballooning United States deficit could hurt emerging markets. (Photo by Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); BONDS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BOND FUNDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (87%); DEVALUATION (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CURRENCIES (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); INTEREST RATES (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Foreign Investments; Mutual Funds; Budgets and Budgeting; International Trade and World Market; Interest Rates

PERSON: Geraldine Fabrikant

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (53%) UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BRAZIL (79%); THAILAND (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



156 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 7374 words

HEADLINE: Ban of Brothers

BYLINE: By Benoit Denizet-Lewis. 
Benoit Denizet-Lewis is a contributing writer. His cover article on teen sex appeared last May.

 BODY:
By modern fraternity standards, Phi Delta Theta's tailgate party was a real rager. For one thing, there were kegs. I couldn't see them just then, but proof of their existence was everywhere. Packed into a backyard near the campus of Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill., were some 100 drunken college students, beer spilling from plastic cups, industrial-size ketchup bottles overturned on the grass near the grill and gaggles of hard-drinking sorority girls (including one self-described Phi Delt groupie) keeping pace with the boys. 
 Amid the revelry, I spotted a lanky, easygoing Phi Delt sophomore from Texas who goes by the nickname Two-Shot, because two shots is about all it takes to get him acting silly. ''Two-Shot!'' I said loudly as he meandered through the crowd in a hooded sweatshirt and jeans, a beer in one hand and a cheap plastic bottle of vodka in the other. ''Where's the keg?''
 He pointed toward a far corner. ''Hey, homey,'' he said. ''The beer's over there.'' 
 ''You going to the game?'' I asked.
 ''Man, that's a good question,'' he said. ''I got great intentions, you know. But stuff happens. Sometimes I don't make it.''
 I wished him luck (''Keep it real!'' he replied) and made my way toward the keg, where I bumped into Theo Michels, Phi Delt's likable chapter president, and Greg Bok, a big, sarcastic, deceptively smart sophomore. (Bok looks like a meathead but says he scored a 1,550 out of 1,600 on the SAT.) Both Michels and Bok were marveling at the success of the day's tailgate.
 ''Six kegs and no cops,'' Michels said. ''This has to be some sort of record. Last year, we had an off-campus party that started at 10:30, and by 11 the police came with a paddy wagon. A paddy wagon. We're college students trying to have a party off campus, because we can't have one in our own fraternity house, because we're not allowed to drink there. So we try to have one off campus, and it gets broken up. Basically, we can't have a party anywhere.''
 Peter Micali, a square-jawed Phi Delt sophomore who had wandered within earshot, chimed in, ''Yeah, it was easier to party in high school.'' 
 Bok shook his head sadly. ''The good old-fashioned fraternity experience is dead,'' he said, pausing for dramatic effect. ''So long, 'Animal House.' ''
It's doom and gloom time for many fraternity boys at Northwestern and at colleges across the country. University administrators, alarmed by the extent of binge drinking on their campuses, are cracking down on the excesses of Greek life, saying it's high time for fraternity boys to shape up and sober up. While all kinds of college students binge drink, the 2001 College Alcohol Study by the Harvard School of Public Health found that fraternity house residents are twice as likely to do so as other students. 
 Eleven national and international fraternities, including Phi Delta Theta, now require most of their chapter houses to be alcohol-free, no matter what their university's policy is. (Sororities have long banned drinking in their chapter houses.) Take away the booze, the new alcohol-free theory goes, and fraternities will be safer, on more solid economic footing (fewer lawsuits, cheaper liability insurance) and more conducive to the creation of real bonds of brotherhood. Friendships will be forged out of genuine respect, not the shared misery of hazing or the shared fog of drink. ''We just didn't see a way to dramatically change the fraternity culture without removing alcohol,'' said Bob Biggs, executive vice president of Phi Delta Theta, when we met last fall in his office at the fraternity's spotless, museumlike international headquarters in Oxford, Ohio.
 But what, exactly, would a dry fraternity look like? And would anyone want to join? You'd have a better chance, I thought, of getting James Carville and Bob Novak to open ''Crossfire'' with five minutes of meditation. As I listened to the brothers in that backyard go on about life at one of Northwestern's ''alcohol free'' fraternities, I couldn't help feeling a little sorry for them. I was a Phi Delt at Northwestern in the mid-90's -- not that long ago, to be sure, but seemingly a different time entirely. While we considered ourselves tamer than fraternities at many state schools (where Greek affiliation can often take precedence over just about everything), my brothers and I still saw drunken debauchery in the chapter house as our fraternal mandate. We threw rowdy keg parties. We got drunk in our rooms and then broke into other fraternities, stealing their sacred robes and toaster ovens. Some of us smoked marijuana, which we grew and harvested in an off-campus apartment. And many of us eagerly participated in drunken hazing, which most of the hazers and hazed saw as a kind of comic relief integral to fraternal bonding. To my brothers and me, a dry fraternity would have been inconceivable. 
 In less than a decade, though, the inconceivable has happened. When I told a friend from college that his fraternity, Theta Chi, was now dry, he was baffled. ''What's the point?'' he wanted to know. Indeed, what is the point of a fraternity if you can't give a party -- or drink a beer in your room with a brother and watch ''Cops'' at 3 a.m.? Wasn't alcohol what enabled fraternity boys to be, well, fraternity boys? 
 When I first heard of the move to ban alcohol from fraternity houses, I was reminded of a scene in the film ''Roger Dodger,'' when a 16-year-old boy sneaks into a bar with his uncle, who promises to teach him the fine and complicated art of picking up women. When the boy declines an alcoholic beverage, the uncle becomes apoplectic. ''You drink that drink!'' he demands. ''Alcohol has been a social lubricant for thousands of years. What do you think, you're going to sit here tonight and reinvent the wheel?''
 A number of fraternities are brazenly trying to do just that, arguing that the fraternity wheel is broken -- and badly in need of a redesign. But what does this new, redesigned American fraternity look like? I was back at Northwestern to find out, and to try to make sense of my own fraternity experience. Had I joined for the drunken keg parties, or was brotherhood about more than that? And was I really a ''frat guy,'' or an anomaly -- a guy who played sports and wore baseball caps but who really should have been hanging out with fraternity-mocking English majors?
 Nearly a decade removed from college, I still view my fraternity experience with a mixture of pride and embarrassment. And I'm not alone. Two fraternity brothers told me that while they loved being Phi Delts, I was not, under any circumstance, to mention their names in this article. I understood. Never mind that Frank Lloyd Wright, Paul Newman, Walter Cronkite and Ted Koppel -- not to mention nearly half of all U.S. presidents and 40 percent of Supreme Court justices -- belonged to a fraternity in college. The stereotype of the fraternity guy as party-loving imbecile is alive and well: just listen to any rant about President George Bush's lack of intellectual curiosity, where a reference to him being a frat boy is most likely used as indisputable proof. 
 In that backyard in Evanston, though, surrounded by beer-guzzling fraternity boys and the girls who love them, I didn't feel ashamed. I felt old. ''Dude, you're the reporter dude, right?'' one brother said, grinning wildly. ''Let me introduce you to some freshman girls! You want to meet some freshman girls? You're with Phi Delts, man. You remember how it is! It's all about the girls!''
 Word spread among the brothers that I was a Phi Delt from way back in the 1990's, and before long several cornered me. They wanted answers: ''How often did you have keg parties in the house? Was the house packed with girls? Were the girls hotter? How much cooler was it?''
 They listened intently as I held court in the backyard, recounting salacious stories of riotous fraternal living -- a little exaggerated in the retelling, of course. But the more I went on about our ''huge keg parties,'' the more pathetic I felt. Was I really trying to impress college students? And were all of my favorite fraternity stories really about getting loaded? 
Since 1997, the year I graduated, Northwestern has expelled five fraternities -- in cooperation with their national organizations -- for alcohol and hazing violations. The last casualty was Kappa Sigma, banished after its 2003 formal dance party at the Shedd Aquarium in Chicago. In a gaffe almost too dopey to be believed, a Kappa Sigma brother dropped a flask into the aquarium's beluga whale tank. Already on probation for an alcohol-related incident that sent a pledge to the hospital, the fraternity was booted off campus by Northwestern administrators (it can petition to return in 2007), but not before the brothers could make going-away T-shirts. They read, ''Kappa Sigma -- a Whale of a Good Time.''
 Of the 17 fraternities now at Northwestern, 13 are alcohol-free, and any new chapter starting at the school also must be dry. (In 1997, not a single Northwestern fraternity was dry.) Across the country, some 30 colleges -- including the University of Iowa, the University of Oklahoma and the University of Oregon -- have gone even further, banning alcohol in all their fraternity houses. (Some have also made their residence halls alcohol-free.) And many schools are increasingly placing fraternities on probation, requiring that they meet specific academic and behavioral standards. Others are moving fraternity rush from fall to winter, heeding the words of the Arizona Supreme Court, which in 1994 opined that ''we are hardpressed to find a setting where the risk of an alcohol-related injury is more likely than from under-age drinking at a university fraternity party the first week of the new college year.'' To try to combat the tendency of fraternity members to simply move their parties to off-campus apartments and houses, university officials are also cooperating more than ever with the local police. 
 And then there's Alfred University in Western New York and Santa Clara University in California, which have taken the most drastic step of all: they decided to do away with fraternities altogether. ''The Greek system is beyond repair,'' Robert McComsey, chairman of Alfred's board, told The New York Times in May 2002. 
 Fraternities did little to improve their image this fall, making headlines across the country in hazing and alcohol-related deaths. At Colorado State University, Samantha Spady, a sophomore, was found dead in a lounge at the Sigma Pi chapter house by a member giving his mother a tour of the fraternity. At the University of Oklahoma, Blake Adam Hammontree, a freshman, died at the Sigma Chi house from alcohol poisoning. And at the University of Colorado, Lynn Gordon Bailey Jr., a Chi Psi pledge, was found dead after drinking during an initiation ritual.
 Some fraternity leaders point out that drinking-related deaths at fraternity houses make up fewer than a dozen of the 1,400 alcohol-related deaths at colleges each year (car accidents are involved in approximately 1,100 of those). Whatever the numbers, none of those deaths occurred at dry chapters, which would seem to bolster the argument that alcohol-free fraternities can and do make a difference.
 In 1997, Phi Delt was among the first fraternities to announce its plan to go dry, arguing that it would save lives, lift grade point averages, improve the condition of chapter houses, boost slumping recruitment numbers by attracting a new kind of college student (fraternity membership nationwide is down 25 percent from its peak in 1990) and help its members return to the core principles on which the fraternity was founded -- friendship, sound learning and moral rectitude. The policy called for all chapter houses to be dry by 2000.
 In July, Phi Delta Theta will celebrate its fifth anniversary of being alcohol-free. And while some fraternity leaders still question how effective the policy is in stopping binge drinking (''We're not sure that focusing on where a person drinks will have any impact on how much that person drinks,'' Mark Anderson, the president of the Sigma Chi Corporation, said), Phi Delt's executive vice president, Bob Biggs, insists the policy is bettering the daily lives of members -- and keeping them safe. For the first time since he can remember, Biggs said, the fraternity isn't facing any lawsuits. ''It was common before we instituted this to have four, five, six claims at any one time,'' Biggs told me. To go with its newfound sobriety, Phi Delt even has a new motto: Brotherhood -- Our Substance of Choice.
 But sobering up chapter houses isn't easy, and the backlash has been fierce. Some chapters have refused to go dry, choosing instead to break away from their national organizations. And many theoretically dry chapters are anything but -- there's plenty of alcohol, pot and harder drugs behind closed doors. ''I don't think anyone is naive enough to think that there's no alcohol in many dry houses,'' one fraternity chapter president at Northwestern told me. ''If it's done in a somewhat covert way, you're fine.'' It's often not, and both Biggs and Dave Westol, executive director of Theta Chi, whose chapters started going dry in 1998, have recently closed chapters that brazenly ignored the no-alcohol policy. 
 But the greatest opposition to dry fraternities often comes from alumni. Westol has received hundreds of e-mail messages from angry alums who, he said, ''can't imagine that a fraternity can be fun without alcohol.'' He went on to say that among the biggest challenges in persuading current fraternity members to take the dry policy seriously are alums who return to the chapter armed with countless stories about the fraternity's drunken past -- or, worse yet, with six-packs. When I sheepishly admitted to having done just that (minus the six-packs), Westol went easy on me. ''Don't beat yourself up,'' he said, ''but you see what I'm talking about.''
Many fraternity members can't help thinking that alcohol-free fraternity houses came about not out of genuine concern for their well-being but because the fraternities were worried about their pocketbooks. While Biggs denies that fear of costly lawsuits was the primary factor in going dry, he concedes that increases in litigation and liability premiums played a part in Phi Delta Theta's decision.
 In the 1980's, the number of lawsuits and insurance claims resulting from fraternity binge drinking and hazing skyrocketed, causing the National Association of Insurance Commissioners to rank fraternities and sororities as the sixth-worst risk for insurance companies -- right behind hazardous-waste-disposal companies and asbestos contractors. Some insurance companies began refusing to cover fraternities, forcing fraternities to take measures to minimize their risk.
 In the mid-90's, Phi Delt's executive board considered going even further. ''We wondered, Can we conceive of a fraternity that doesn't allow alcohol in its chapter houses?'' Biggs said when I met with him. ''But we knew it wouldn't be easy. When we decided to do it, someone made the analogy to when John Kennedy said, 'Let's go to the moon and back by the end of the decade.' So that's what we did.'' (It's a telling analogy. Neil Armstrong brought his Phi Delt pin with him to the moon's surface in 1969.)
 At its annual convention in 1998, the fraternity broke out fireworks to celebrate its 150-year anniversary and its alcohol-free future. But back at Northwestern that fall, ''we thought the world was ending,'' said Nick Logan, the chapter president at the time. ''Northwestern had actually told us that we needed to go dry that year, so unlike other Phi Delt chapters that had two years to prepare, we didn't. It was absolute pandemonium. I mean, we're like 19, 20, 21, many of us have been drinking regularly since high school, we join a fraternity partially for the social scene and now we're supposed to just not drink? It was like telling a monk that he can't pray.''
 Many dry chapters still have members who try to skirt their dry rule. Chapter presidents, who are sometimes under-age, are put in the difficult position of policing the drinking of members who are 21. But even those fraternities that do follow the rules insist that administrators, in their efforts to crack down on drinking, have failed to do just that -- and, in the process, managed to take much of the fun out of fraternity life. 
 At the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity house at Northwestern, members told me of their fruitless attempt this fall to show the classic 1978 fraternity movie ''Animal House'' at one of their philanthropic events co-sponsored by a campus sorority. The Sig Eps were all set to make a special T-shirt for the event -- it would read ''Fat, Drunk and Stupid Is No Way to Go Through Life, Son,'' a famous line from the film -- when they say the university ''very strongly suggested'' they not show the film. 
 ''It was really a very ironic event, of course, because most fraternities now are pretty far from the 'Animal House' model,'' one Sig Ep brother told me. ''But the administration and the Panhellenic Association, which oversees the sororities, didn't see the humor in it. They acted very disappointed in us, because we'd been a frat that had worked hard to dispel the 'Animal House' stereotype.''
 Then there was the controversy surrounding Sig Ep's annual prep-school party, at which female undergraduates traditionally arrive in their best Catholic schoolgirl attire. As one of the school's four ''wet'' fraternities, Sig Ep can have parties with alcohol in their house, as long as the beer is sold by an outside vendor and no one under 21 drinks. But this year the party was going to be dry. ''The university brought our attention to some clause in the student handbook,'' said Jordan Cerf, the chapter's vice president of recruitment, ''that says that any event that freshmen attend during the fall quarter in a house has to be dry.''
 The Sig Eps were still expecting a huge crowd when I talked to them in October. ''Here's what the school has done by making this party dry,'' Nick Johnson, the chapter president, explained. ''Before coming to the party, everyone is going to get loaded at their dorm, or off campus, or in their car. They're going to drink more, and they'll drink faster, so that their buzz lasts them through the party. That's really the disingenuous thing about this policy. I don't see how this is keeping anyone safer. It's just moving the binge drinking somewhere else.''
I never expected to be a hard-drinking frat boy when I arrived at Northwestern in the fall of 1993. I considered myself far too much of a ''free thinker'' to join a fraternity, and I certainly wasn't going to be ''paying for friends,'' which is what I considered the monthly dues to be.
 There was also my father's fruitless fraternity experience to consider. In 1958 he joined Lambda Chi Alpha at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, a fraternity, he says, ''for guys other fraternities wouldn't take.'' Still, it was a welcome social outlet for my shy dad, and he happily went along with the heavy drinking and the endless talk of sorority-house panty raids if it meant having friends. But things went awry when my father wanted to attend a racial-equality march, which didn't gel with the fraternity's conservative views. The chapter president told him not to go, and when my father said he was going anyway, the president insisted that he not wear his fraternity pin. Outraged, my father moved out of the chapter house and started writing anti-fraternity letters to the school newspaper. He was expelled from the fraternity soon after. 
 My dad's experience played right into my stereotype of fraternities: they were for close-minded people. But as the fall quarter of my freshman year progressed, my anti-fraternity stance softened. I realized that a third of Northwestern's undergraduates (including plenty of people who seemed perfectly decent) belonged to fraternities or sororities. I also loved fraternity parties -- my friends and I spent many weekend nights stumbling from one fraternity kegger to the next. And as much as I liked to mock fraternity guys, I desperately wanted to belong to something. I was a mostly clueless drifter in high school, and I didn't want to be one in college too. As an only child, I was intrigued by the idea of brotherhood -- by the concept of guys contractually obligated to have my back. Maybe paying for friends wasn't such a bad idea, after all. 
 So I didn't object when my classmate and new friend, Dave, who struck me as even less of a fraternity guy than I was (he was a film major prone to outbursts of hypersensitivity), suggested we head up to Phi Delta Theta and enjoy the free food at its Rush Week event. I didn't know much about the chapter, but Dave apparently knew a brother there. That evening I was introduced to many of the members, and everyone seemed cool enough to me. Dave and I went back the next night, and I was summoned to a room and offered a ''bid'' -- an invitation to ''pledge'' membership to the fraternity. I had a Groucho Marx moment -- did I really want to join a fraternity that would have me? -- but I got over it and accepted on the spot.
 They threw a pledge T-shirt on me and we ran downstairs, out the front door and onto to the porch, where there was a lot of congratulatory hollering and a few ''who's that skinny dude?'' whispers from pledges who didn't know me. Before I knew it, I was being hurled high into the cold night air, and everyone started singing a ditty you won't find listed among the official songs of Phi Delta Theta.
 To hell to hell with Fiji, to hell with Sigma 
 Nu,
 And if you're not a Phi Delt, to hell to hell 
 with you,
 So listen to me lassie, so listen to my plea,
 Don't ever let a Phi Delt an inch above your 
 knee.
 He'll take you to the back shed and fill you 
 full of rye,
 And soon you'll be the mother of a bouncin' 
 baby Phi.
Soon after pledging, I learned that I wasn't joining a chapter with the most sterling reputation. We were told that in the 1980's, our house was known for spawning ''obnoxious jerks.'' One night some brothers apparently got drunk, shouted obscenities and ''threw things'' at marchers during a Take Back the Night rally. University officials booted the fraternity off campus, but not before the brothers got drunk and trashed the place.
 I was half-amused and half-horrified by this news, but soon I was too busy being hazed to care much one way or another. We had weekly ''lineups'' in the main room of the chapter house, where active members, drinking and wielding flashlights, would belittle our physiques and quiz us on arcane fraternity history. We were made to do push-ups until we couldn't anymore, and we were told to lie on our stomachs and cover our behinds, because the Betas, who lived in the chapter house next door, were coming after us. The Betas didn't seem particularly gay to me (we mostly knew them as bigger potheads than we were), but we were made to believe that they wanted nothing more than to have their way with us.
 There was also a lot of forced drinking. We were told to down copious amounts of liquor, and most any effort to avoid it (an earnest explanation that alcoholism ran in the family, for example) was usually laughed off. To haze effectively, many of the active brothers had to get drunk, too. After all, hazing isn't much fun when you're sober -- a fact that isn't lost on fraternity leaders who hope that going alcohol-free will reduce hazing. 
 And maybe it has. The current Phi Delts at Northwestern seem to value the humiliation of freshmen a lot less than we did. ''When I was a pledge last year,'' Peter Micali told me, ''we would be at some off-campus apartment and the actives'' -- full members -''would be like, 'Here, drink this.' But if you didn't want to, they were like, 'O.K., no problem, that's cool.' So we don't do much hazing.'' One night at a bar, Micali admitted that he actually would have liked to have been hazed a little harder. ''I wanted them to be like, 'O.K., you worthless dirtbag, walk through that wall!' That would have been funny.''
 As much as the actives tried to humiliate us a decade ago, we stayed cocky throughout, and we did the minimum required during our months as pledges: we fetched food, cleaned the house, took our morning Wheaties with beer instead of milk. Soon enough we were initiated and taught the secret handshake and the secret sign, both of which I promptly forgot.
 We told ourselves that we were clearly the best fraternity at Northwestern, and we could drink you under the table to prove it. My senior year, though, was to be the beginning of the end. Just after I graduated and stepped awkwardly into the real world, the brothers were faced with the daunting, incomprehensible, surreal prospect of fraternal sobriety. They didn't react well. Brothers disagreed about following the alcohol-free mandate. In May 1999, the university informed the fraternity that its members needed to find a new place to live the following fall. According to The Chicago Sun-Times, the school's list of the chapter's infractions included ''a sink that was pulled from the wall and used as a urinal; a member who set off a fire alarm by smoking marijuana; throwing garbage, urine, paint and other debris.''
 David Sykes, the chapter president at the time, told a skeptical reporter that Phi Delt was ''no Animal House'' and that many of the charges were overblown. The brothers sued Northwestern, but a Cook County Circuit judge dismissed the case as ''an unnecessary drain'' on the courts. Remarkably, the university let the brothers return to the fraternity house the following year. Everyone was on his best behavior. But over the last three years, the brothers haven't always agreed on how seriously to take their alcohol-free mandate. 
In that way, they're not much different from some Phi Delts who came 150 years before them. The Phi Delta Theta international fraternity -- now home to 170 chapters in 44 states and six Canadian provinces -- was founded by six serious and determined students at Miami University in Ohio on a December night in 1848. Conceived as a secret literary and social society for men of intellectual vigor and upstanding character, the Miami University chapter enjoyed a brief period of fraternal harmony before all hell broke loose.
 By 1850, the fraternity was ''chaotic with dissension between fraternal idealists and hedonists,'' writes Hank Nuwer in his book ''Wrongs of Passage: Fraternities, Sororities, Hazing and Binge Drinking.'' Phi Delt's members -- including a transfer student named Benjamin Harrison, who would later become the 23rd president of the United States -- disagreed about what a fraternity should be.
 Was Phi Delta Theta, as its six founding fathers envisioned, about friendship, sound learning and moral rectitude? Or was it a place for boys to be boys, no matter how juvenile and tasteless that might appear to the outside world? Or could it be some ingenious combination of the two, making space for both righteousness and debauchery?
 A hard-liner, Harrison quickly got himself elected fraternity president: Phi Delt was to be a place of honor and respectability. He was more than a little displeased when two fraternity members became obscenely drunk at a reception for Pierson Sayre, the last living Revolutionary War soldier. He gave the offending men a second chance after they promised to shape up, but soon enough they were back to their old ways. Harrison threw them out, upon which several other members, who backed the banished brothers, resigned.
 The growth of Phi Delta Theta (in 1859, it became the first Greek organization at Northwestern) and other fraternities stalled during the Civil War. But Phi Delt rebounded between 1870 and 1900, as fraternities expanded west. The first reported alcohol- and hazing-related fraternity deaths also occurred during this time, Nuwer recounts. In 1873, a Kappa Alpha Society pledge at Cornell University died when he fell into a gorge after fraternity brothers left him alone in the woods. Nine years later, a blindfolded Delta Kappa Epsilon pledge at Yale pierced himself with a sharp object on a carriage while following orders from fraternity brothers to run down the street. He subsequently died from the injury. 
 In 1897, the South Carolina State Legislature voted to ban fraternities at the state school; in 1901, Arkansas followed suit. The president of the University of Michigan, James Angell, neatly summed up the feelings of many college presidents who disliked the lack of discipline in fraternity houses when he said, ''The great dangers to the residents of these houses are waste of time . . . a substitution of social life for hard study. If the upperclassmen are not of high moral strain, the lowering of the character of the members is inevitable.''
 During the 1920's, fraternity members proved adept at procuring liquor despite Prohibition. In 1930, a commentary in The New York Times warned that colleges needed to be wary of the ''gay-dog alumnus'' who visited his old fraternity house, alcohol in tow. Hazing incidents increased in the 30's, leading officials at 14 colleges to join together to crack down on the practice, according to Nuwer.
 Fraternity enrollment dropped off during World War II, but it bounced back soon after. While alcohol wasn't technically allowed on many college campuses and in fraternities until the mid-60's, fraternity members were known for ignoring the rule. In 1957, Northwestern's Interfraternity Council began conducting ''liquor checks'' in chapter houses to catch offenders. 
 Throughout the Vietnam-era, fraternity enrollment dropped off significantly as the Greek system came to be seen by many as an outdated symbol of establishment culture. But by the mid-1970's, fraternities were again soaring in popularity, openly celebrating mischief and mayhem, while universities did very little to stop them. At Northwestern, Sigma Chi held beer-chugging contests on its front lawn, which it advertised prominently around campus: ''Chug for Charity,'' read one Sigma Chi poster in 1976, just two years before ''Animal House'' hit movie theaters.
 ''Back then,'' Patrick M. Quinn, an archivist at Northwestern, said, ''they had kegs inside their frats so they could drink beer all day long. You could smell the weed all the way down to Tech'' -- referring to the technology building midway between north and south campus. ''It was a crazy time. These days, you walk by the fraternities, and everything is so quiet. It's eerily quiet.''
Appearances can, of course, be deceiving. From the outside, the brick, four-story, Ivy-covered Phi Delta Theta house at Northwestern looks like a nice place to live -- it certainly has more charm than the cookie-cutter dorm the school recently built across the way. But walk inside the chapter house and you discover an unmitigated disaster -- a job even the team from ''Queer Eye for the Straight Guy'' would surely dismiss as hopeless. As one freshman put it, ''It's shockingly nasty.''
 During most of my two weeks at Northwestern this fall, the chapter's third-floor hallway was strewn with garbage, and the toilets were indescribably foul. (''I won't even go to the bathroom here,'' one brother said.) In the main room, tossed carelessly underneath a pool table littered with cups, flyers, magazines and Papa John's pizza menus, I found the fraternity's '95-'96 framed group photo. It should have been hanging prominently on the wall with the others, but the brothers had apparently run out of space and found the floor a suitable alternative.
 Kyle Pendleton, Northwestern's director of fraternity and sorority life, told me that one ''effective'' way to get fraternity members to take care of their chapter house is to ask them these questions: ''What would your fraternity's founders think if they came back to life and walked into your house? Would they approve? Would they want to join?'' Either those questions hadn't been asked at Phi Delt or, more likely, the Phi Delts laughed it off. ''Most of us don't take any of this fraternity stuff too seriously,'' Will Johnson said, strumming a guitar in his room. He acknowledged that he and his brothers are most likely not what the fraternity's leadership had in mind when they went dry. ''Yeah, they were probably thinking that if we weren't drunk all the time in the house, that we would get really into being the best fraternity we could be or something. But this is just a place to live and hang out with your friends. I don't think it should be taken as much more than that. All that fraternity ritual and stuff, it's a little silly.''
 The current brothers are a study in cocky, amused detachment. Their laid-back attitude extends to rush, which at Northwestern happens in the winter instead of the fall. The extra months give Northwestern freshmen ample time to be courted, although the current Phi Delts are too lazy to do much of that. 
 ''The whole rush thing is really pretty gay,'' said Matthew Rosenthal, a goofy, curly-haired Phi Delt junior who was nursing a hangover one weekday afternoon in his large room, which is decorated with Frank Zappa and Grateful Dead posters. ''Sometimes it feels like we're trying to get them to sleep with us, you know?''
 Phi Delts acknowledge their dry policy initially gives the recruiting advantage to Chi Psi (better known as the Lodge) and Delta Tau Delta, their two biggest competitors, both of which are wet. ''There really is no way to positively spin not being able to drink in your chapter house, even when you're 21,'' said Michels, the chapter president.
 When I visited in October, though, both Delta Tau Delta and the Lodge were on probation and were temporarily dry. The former home of David Schwimmer, one of the stars of ''Friends,'' Delt had been in trouble since last spring, following an incident in its chapter room. A freshman girl and a Delt pledge were apparently cavorting privately when other fraternity members -- some under-age and drunk -- burst in and started taking pictures. The girl told her story to The Daily Northwestern, claiming that she heard the stunt was a Delt ''tradition,'' and before long local television crews were parked outside the fraternity, eagerly reporting on this salacious fraternity sex scandal.
 The Lodge has had no similar public relations disasters, but the Phi Delts find plenty of reasons to make fun of it too. Like an aggressive politician going right at an opponent's strength, Phi Delts like to mock the Lodge's notorious -- and in some freshmen circles, deeply revered -- ''floor parties,'' which are usually packed with sweaty freshmen drunkenly hitting on each other. At mostly dry Northwestern, the floor parties are about as close to ''Animal House'' as anyone is going to get (and it's still pretty far). ''The parties are fun when you're a freshman,'' admitted Matthew Rosenthal, ''but freshmen are happy with whatever as long as they're drunk.''
 Still, many Phi Delts confessed that as freshmen they considered pledging the Lodge. ''Joining a wet house is definitely tempting for most guys,'' Rosenthal said. But Rosenthal eventually chose Phi Delt, mostly, he said, because of the colorful personalities of the guys in the house. I heard the same from other brothers. ''A lot of fraternities have guys who look, talk and act the same,'' said Alex Wu, an engaging Phi Delt junior known for his rapping skills. ''We have such a cast of characters, and that meant more to me than being able to drink in the house.''
 The same was true of the fraternity a decade ago. We had football players, swimmers, nerds, preppies, writers, artists, liberals and right-wingers. We were an eclectic bunch, unpredictable in our perspectives on life. The chapter became a little more unpredictable when I came out my junior year. After a plethora of drunken attempts to convince myself that I liked girls ''in that way,'' I finally accepted what part of me had known since I was 12: I was gay. Once I accepted it, I really wasn't interested in lying about it, and I told my family and some of my friends. But I was living in the fraternity house that year -- was I going to tell my brothers too? If I did, would they disown me -- or, worse yet, keep me around as a courtesy but mock me behind my back? My fraternity was diverse, all right, but it wasn't that diverse. There wasn't anyone in the chapter who was openly gay, and some brothers were clearly homophobic. My freshman year, one brother told me, ''Thank God we don't have any fags in this house.''
 The current Phi Delts at Northwestern don't have an openly gay member and also like to throw the words ''gay'' and ''fag'' around a lot (they assumed I was straight), but I'm not convinced the words actually mean much to them. I watched in surprise as two brothers who only hours earlier jokingly labeled Lodge members as ''a bunch of pretty-boy fags from Long Island'' ridiculed a freshman who walked out of a room when he saw two guys kissing on television. ''Dude, what are you, homophobic or something?'' one brother asked him. ''Grow up, man.'' 
 I would have loved to have heard something like that a decade ago. Instead, I drank and drank and became very good at changing pronouns (my boyfriend became a girlfriend, although she was always too busy to come by the house). I didn't like lying, and I tried desperately to build up the courage to tell my brothers. I suspected that my closest friends in the house would be fine with it. As for the others, I was really hoping that brotherhood actually meant something. Would they have my back? 
 When I finally told my close friends in the house, they promptly told their girlfriends, who then told the whole school. Most important, though, most of my brothers surprised me by accepting me completely. For many of them, I was the first gay guy they'd really known -- and some of them claimed to be heartbroken when I told them that, no, I didn't find them attractive. ''If I can't even get gay guys into me,'' one drunken brother asked me, ''how am I supposed to get girls?'' 
Kyle Pendleton, Northwestern's director of fraternity and sorority life, kept urging me to visit Sigma Chi. It is, he told me, ''the model fraternity in many ways.'' 
 I could see immediately why Pendleton liked the place so much. The house is spotless and majestic. (Frankly, it looks and feels a lot like a sorority.) But more than that, Sigma Chi takes its mission as a new and redesigned fraternity very seriously, and it is, according to most fraternity guys on campus, the driest of the dry fraternities. 
 ''We don't want to be a house that thinks the only way to have fun is to be drunk, stupid and belligerent,'' Diego Berdakin, a sophomore and Sigma Chi's president, told me one afternoon as he gave me a tour of the house, with its beautiful woodwork and king-size beds (both thanks to big-spending alumni). ''We're looking to live up to the ideals that the fraternity was founded on. At the same time, we're trying to build our own legacy, a whole new model of what a fraternity can be. We're not interested in being anything like 'Animal House.' 
 ''If you look at this chapter five or six years ago,'' Berdakin continued, ''we were considered one of the top fraternities on campus, but I don't think the brothers back then really respected the fraternity. You could spend two straight days just trying to think up everything a fraternity could do wrong, and I'm sure they did it all.''
 In 2000, this chapter of Sigma Chi was shut down by its national headquarters for being too unruly, a far cry from what it is today. Last spring, as part of its New Chapter Initiative, the fraternity's leadership recruited about 45 Northwestern students to start the chapter again. Some never expected to join a fraternity but were intrigued by the idea of starting one from scratch. Others, like Berdakin, are engaging and likable students who wanted to join a chapter that wasn't about partying and hazing. And some joined because, as members of several other fraternities told me, ''no other chapter would take them.''
 While it's difficult to take issue with Sigma Chi's focus on things that actually matter (Berdakin spoke often about wanting to have a house ''with integrity''), something about the place spooked me. It struck me as too clean, too perfect. At one point, I had to use the bathroom and found myself staring at a sign above the sink that read: ''Wash your hands. Dirty hands spread disease.'' Was this the redesigned American fraternity? 
 Pendleton also spoke highly of Sigma Phi Epsilon, saying that while the chapter is wet, its focus isn't on drinking. The house was hard to miss, with a moose head and strobe light protruding from its top window. 
 Most Sig Ep chapters, including Northwestern's, have adopted the Balanced Man Program, which Sig Ep's national leadership developed in the early 90's to combat what the fraternity's national spokesman, Scott Thompson, called ''a fraternity culture of boozing, drugging and hazing.'' The program doesn't restrict drinking in the chapter house, but it does something nearly as radical and arguably more meaningful: it has done away with the ''pledge system,'' meaning that new members who join the fraternity have nearly all the rights and responsibilities of active members.
 ''New members don't pledge for a certain period of time, get hazed, get initiated and then show up for parties until they graduate,'' Thompson said. ''In the Balanced Man Program, men join, and they are developed from the time they join until the time they graduate. Part of that development focuses on building a sound mind and sound body, a simple philosophy that we took from the ancient Greeks.''
 Thompson supports Sig Ep chapters that choose to go dry on their own (a dozen have), but he says the fraternity doesn't force the issue. ''We believe that if we recruit smart men and put them in an environment where they respect each other, they're going to make smart decisions,'' he said. I heard similar reasoning from Nick Johnson and Jordan Cerf, Sig Ep seniors who spoke fondly of the Balanced Man philosophy and clearly valued their fraternity experience. They pride themselves on being a well-liked chapter where girls ''feel safe'' and know ''the door will be held open for them.''
 But Johnson and Cerf also talked a lot about having a good time. They were visibly giddy at the news that Kappa Alpha Theta, considered one of Northwestern's top sororities, had chosen to do Homecoming with them. ''That would have never happened 10 years ago,'' Cerf said. 
 When I asked them why, they struggled to put it delicately. ''I wouldn't want to use the word cooler, exactly, to describe us versus the guys from back then,'' Cerf said. ''But, you know, those guys were just starting out and weren't really known on campus.''
 Johnson assured me, ''They were all-around nice guys, but maybe, in terms of social presence, they weren't quite there.''
Before spending time with the Sig Eps, I was skeptical of the Balanced Man Program. Fraternities often coin new initiatives that, in practice, mean very little. But I left feeling thoroughly impressed. More than any fraternity boys I visited at Northwestern, the Sig Eps seem to be, well, balanced men. And they're proof that a wet fraternity doesn't necessarily mean an unruly one.
 They're also proof that there are other ways, besides outlawing liquor, to redesign the American fraternity. Going dry may be a necessary step for some chapters, but the more I hung around Northwestern's fraternity boys, the less I saw regulating alcohol as particularly relevant to the health and personality of fraternities. For me, the ideal fraternity would somehow combine the strengths of Northwestern's Sigma Chi, Sig Ep and Phi Delt chapters. It would stress integrity, character and leadership. But it would also be a place where fraternity boys are allowed to be fraternity boys, however unseemly and absurd their choices may appear to the rest of us. Without that, the redesigned American fraternity may be no more balanced than the one that was scrapped in the first place. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Party! (Just not here.) A room at the Phi Delta Theta chapter at Northwestern, now a dry fraternity.
Theo Michels, president of Phi Delta Theta at Northwestern, is responsible for keeping the fraternity flame burning -- without the alcohol.
With alcohol off-limits at the chapter house, Phi Delts resort to off-campus housing for their parties. Even these gatherings are subject to raids by the local police.
 Greg Bok, a sophomore brother at the Phi Delt house. The ban on alchohol, Northwestern Phi Delts agree, has had no effect on housekeeping. (Photographs by Gillian Laub for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT FRATERNITIES & SORORITIES (91%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (79%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); INSURANCE (74%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (74%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (72%); LITIGATION (71%) Colleges and Universities; Alcohol Abuse; Fraternities and Sororities; Insurance; Suits and Litigation; Colleges and Universities; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: PHI DELTA THETA (93%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (92%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INSURANCE COMMISSIONERS (59%) Northwestern University; National Assn of Insurance Commissioners

PERSON: Benoit Denizet-Lewis

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



157 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Echo of Gdansk Heard in Ukraine's Shout for Democracy

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: GDANSK, Poland, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
When the streets of the capital of Ukraine were filled with protesters a few weeks ago, the mayor of Gdansk, this battered, history-laden city on the Baltic, climbed up a ladder to drape a scarf in the Ukraine protest movement's trademark bright orange around the neck of a statue of Neptune, Gdansk's maritime symbol.
 ''We remember when there was the Solidarity movement in Gdansk, and the people of the free world helped us here,'' Mayor Pawel Adamowicz said in his office this week. He was explaining what he called the emotional component of his gesture of identification with the Ukrainian orange revolution.
 ''On the pragmatic level, Ukraine balances the influence of Russia,'' he said, adding a geopolitical reason for his gesture. ''We hope that Ukraine will become a European Union member and tightly tied to the West.'' 
 As they watched events unfold in their neighbor to the east, many veterans of the Solidarity movement saw history, if not repeating itself exactly, certainly echoing what began in this place, 25 years ago in August, when Solidarity was founded. 
 The Solidarity veterans are close observers and analysts of the details of the crisis in Ukraine. They are familiar both with the euphoria that comes right after the first success and with what one former Solidarity leader here called ''the gray winter'' of reality that follows.
 ''When I was on my way over there I was thinking what I could do in strategic terms to help people, and I decided on two and a half points,'' Lech Walesa, a founder of Solidarity and former Polish president, said in a conversation in his office here, recalling meetings he had with both sides in Ukraine early in the crisis.
 ''First, I asked each side whether it could use violence against the other,'' Mr. Walesa said. ''I told them, 'There are witnesses here,' so everyone had to give the answer 'no.' Second, I asked all the people whether there was any will to sit around the table with their enemies, and I told them that I would tell whatever answer they gave to the people on the streets.''
 And the half point? ''I told everybody to beware of provocation, which could destroy everything,'' Mr. Walesa said. Again the reference to Poland 25 years ago was clear. A quarter century after Solidarity's founding, several participants in the Polish revolution recalled their fear that the police would provoke an incident that would give them an excuse to start shooting.
 Of course, the world is not the same as it was 25 years ago. Back then, during the 16 months when Solidarity first was allowed to operate before martial law was declared at the end of 1981, it was the only self-governing, legally recognized labor union in the Soviet bloc. 
 The odds against the Poles, in other words, were much higher than they were for the pro-democratic crowds in Ukraine. The Poles were the pioneers; the Ukrainians have benefited from the outward radiation of what started here in Gdansk. In the Polish case, Western Europe, especially West Germany and France -- in contrast with the America of Ronald Reagan -- declined to support Solidarity, fearful as they were of spoiling the policy of detente with the Soviet Union. The almost automatic support from the West of Ukrainian democracy is one index of how things have changed.
 But the veterans of the Solidarity movement see important similarities in the two movements also, beginning with their attempts to avoid provoking violence. There was also the way the Poles handled the Soviets -- gingerly, but with a canny sense of how far they could go before bringing a Soviet invasion. Of course, that was not the only element in the picture. There were also the Soviet rulers themselves who chose in the end not to rely on the long tradition of armed interference in the affairs of their satellites. 
 ''In 1980, we didn't want any single person to go to the streets, and that was the reason for our success,'' said Jerzy Borowczak, the former worker at the Lenin Shipyard who organized the strike that began on Aug. 14 of that year.
 ''A bomb in the street and you give the police an excuse,'' he added, recalling an earlier protest movement in Gdansk, in 1970, when, as he told it, the police faked an episode of looting, blamed the workers and used it as an excuse to crack down.
 Mr. Borowczak was interviewed in the room at the former Lenin Shipyard where some of the movement's historic meetings took place. It is in a battered building in an area of brick sheds whose main characteristic is a kind of pervasive wear and tear. The shipyard in this sense illustrates as well as anything the ''gray winter'' -- the phrase is Mr. Borowczak's -- that followed in Gdansk.
 Few Solidarity veterans imagined when they went on strike in 1980 that their action would eventually spell the disappearance of the big state enterprises that gave them their jobs, and they seem to view that unexpected result with a mixture of bitterness and resignation.
 When Solidarity began, the shipyard had 16,000 workers and spread out over almost 420 acres; now it has 3,500 workers and has shrunk to about 200 acres. It was privatized; then it went bankrupt; then it was essentially sold back to the state. 
 Its tremendous debt load makes it uncompetitive in today's world, and sustaining it is inconsistent with the commitment of Mr. Adamowicz's government to allow the market economy to reign here. He says that 50,000 small- and medium-size businesses have been created in Gdansk since the arrival of democracy, the vanguard of a future in which shipbuilding does not figure prominently.
 There are ironies in this, not least that when, in 1992, a year after he became the triumphant president of a newly liberated Poland, Mr. Walesa was booed and jeered at a Solidarity Congress in Gdansk. It did not take long for the gray winter to arrive. 
 Then, of course, Mr. Walesa was defeated in the next election by a former Communist, Aleksander Kwasniewski, who, as a loyal Communist through the 1980's, opposed Solidarity and supported martial law.
 But then there is another twist to this story. Mr. Kwasniewski, in his continuing incarnation as president of Poland, was among the most visible of the European leaders who mediated in the Ukrainian crisis. 
 Mr. Walesa was asked what he thought about that.
 ''It only shows how big and beautiful our revolution was,'' he said. ''It's not just that Communism fell but that former Communists have been convinced to become democratic teachers. And they are saying that they can teach democracy better than Lech Walesa, so it's a double victory.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Lech Walesa, left, a founder of the Solidarity movement in Poland, spoke to striking workers at the Lenin Shipyard in Gdansk on Aug. 8, 1980. At right, Ukrainians cheered the opposition leader Viktor A. Yushchenko when he appeared on a giant screen at a rally in Kiev last week. (Photo by Ivan Sekretarev/Associated Press)
 (Photo by Erazm Ciolek/Reuters)Map of Poland highlighting Gdansk: The death rattle of Communism began with a strike in Gdansk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); RIOTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); POLITICS (68%); LABOR UNIONS (53%) Elections; Demonstrations and Riots; Organized Labor; Politics and Government; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%) Solidarity Movement (Poland)

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (58%) Richard Bernstein; Ronald Wilson (1911-2004) Reagan

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (93%) POLAND (94%); UKRAINE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) Ukraine; Poland; Russia; Ukraine

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



158 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Ideas & Trends: True Believers; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1527 words

HEADLINE: More Religion, but Not the Old-Time Kind

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

 BODY:
ALMOST anywhere you look around the world, with the glaring exception of Western Europe, religion is now a rising force. Former Communist countries are humming with mosque builders, Christian missionaries and freelance spiritual entrepreneurs of every possible persuasion. In China, underground ''house churches'' are proliferating so quickly that neither the authorities nor Christian leaders can keep reliable count. In much of South and Central America, exuberant Pentecostal churches, where worshipers catch the Holy Spirit and speak in tongues, continue to spread, challenging the Roman Catholic tradition. And in the United States, religious conservatives, triumphant over their role in the re-election of President Bush, are increasingly asserting their power in politics, the media and culture. 
 The tsunami in Asia could spur religious revival as well, as victims and onlookers turn to mosques, temples and churches both to help them fathom the catastrophe and to provide humanitarian assistance. 
 What does all this rising religiosity add up to? It is easy to assume that a more religious world means a more fractious world, where violent conflict is fueled by violent fundamentalist movements. 
 But some religion experts say that while it is clear that religiosity is on the rise, it is not at all clear that fundamentalism is. Indeed, there may be a rising backlash against violent fundamentalism of any faith. 
 The world's fastest growing religion is not any type of fundamentalism, but the Pentecostal wing of Christianity. While Christian fundamentalists are focused on doctrine and the inerrancy of Scripture, , what is most important for Pentecostals is what they call ''spirit-filled'' worship, including speaking in tongues and miracle healing. Brazil, where American missionaries planted Pentecostalism in the early 20th century, now has a congregation with its owns TV station, soccer team and political party. 
 Most scholars of Christianity believe that the world's largest church is a Pentecostal one -- the Yoido Full Gospel Church in Seoul, South Korea, which was founded in 1958 by a converted Buddhist who held a prayer meeting in a tent he set up in a slum. More than 250,000 people show up for worship on a typical Sunday. 
 ''If I were to buy stock in global Christianity, I would buy it in Pentecostalism,'' said Martin E. Marty, professor emeritus of the history of Christianity at the University of Chicago Divinity School and a coauthor of a study of fundamentalist movements. ''I would not buy it in fundamentalism.''
 After the American presidential election in November, some liberal commentators warned that the nation was on the verge of a takeover by Christian ''fundamentalists.''
 But in the United States today, most of the Protestants who make up what some call the Christian right are not fundamentalists, who are more prone to create separatist enclaves, but evangelicals, who engage the culture and share their faith. Professor Marty defines fundamentalism as essentially a backlash against secularism and modernity. 
 For example, at the fundamentalist Bob Jones University, in Greenville, S.C., students are not allowed to listen to contemporary music of any kind, even Christian rock or rap. But at Wheaton College in Illinois, a leading evangelical school, contemporary Christian music is regular fare for many students. 
 Christian fundamentalism emerged in the United States in the 1920's, but was already in decline by the 1960's. By then, it had been superceded by evangelicalism, with its Billy Graham-style revival meetings, radio stations and seminaries. 
 The word ''fundamentalist'' itself has fallen out of favor among conservative Christians in the United States, not least because it has come to be associated with extremism and violence overseas. 
 Fundamentalism in non-Christian faiths became a phenomenon in the rest of the world in the 1970's with ''the failure and the bankruptcy of secular, nationalistic liberal creeds around the world,'' said Philip Jenkins, a professor of history and religious studies at Pennsylvania State University. Among the ''creeds cracking up'' were nationalism, Marxism, socialism, pan-Arabism and pan-Africanism.
 ''From the 1970's on, you get the growth of not just more conservative religion, but religion with a political bent,'' said Professor Jenkins, the author of ''The Next Christendom: The Coming of Global Christianity.''
 Now, the future of fundamentalism is murky, with several contradictory trends at work simultaneously. 
 There is little doubt that one fundamentalism can feed another, spurring recruitment and escalating into a sort of religious arms race. In Nigeria's central Plateau State, Muslim and Christian gangs have razed one another's villages in the last few years, leaving tens of thousands of dead and displaced. In rioting in India in 2002, more than 1,000 people, most of them Muslims, were killed by Hindus in Gujarat state -- retaliation for a Muslim attack a day earlier on a train full of Hindus, which killed 59. 
 Husain Haqqani, a Pakistani political commentator and visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington, said that insurgents in Falluja, Iraq, recruited fighters with the false rumor that Christian crusaders with the Rev. Franklin Graham's aid organization, Samaritan's Purse, were on the way over to convert Muslims. (Mr. Graham is known throughout the Muslim world for his statement that Islam is a ''very evil and wicked religion.'') Fundamentalism does not necessarily lead to intolerance, said Professor Jenkins of Pennsylvania State. ''People with very convinced, traditional views can get along together for a very long time,'' he said. ''But sometimes we get into cycles where they can't, and we seem to be in one of those cycles right now.''
 Analysts are also seeing signs of a backlash as religious believers grow disenchanted with movements that have produced little but bloodshed, economic stagnation and social repression. 
 In last year's elections in India, voters repudiated the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, a Hindu nationalist group whose cadres had helped stir up violence in some Indian states against Muslims and others. 
 And in Indonesia, the world's largest Muslim country, mainstream Islamic groups in September helped elect as president a secular general who had been relatively outspoken about the threat posed by the radical group Jemaah Islamiyah, which is responsible for several acts of terrorism, including the bombing in Bali in 2002. 
 Fundamentalist movements also stumble because they plan for the overthrow, but not for the governing. Half the Muslim world is illiterate, Mr. Haqqani said, but the Taliban didn't make a dent in improving literacy when it ruled in Afghanistan. If Iran had a free and fair plebiscite today, Professor Marty said, ''the ayatollahs would be dumped.'' 
 For reasons like this, said R. Scott Appleby, a history professor at the University of Notre Dame and director of the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, ''it would be misleading to say fundamentalism is on the rise now.'' He added: ''I would say we're just more aware of it because these people are better organized, more mobile and more vocal than ever before.''
 In 2003, Professor Appleby and two other scholars, Gabriel A. Almond and Emmanuel Sivan, published ''Strong Religion,'' a book based on research done with Professor Marty for the Fundamentalism Project. The book's subtitle was the ''The Rise of Fundamentalisms Around the World.'' 
 NOW, Mr. Appleby said, ''There is some evidence, some literature that says fundamentalism is on the decline, that it has peaked or is peaking precisely because it has a tendency toward violence and intolerance, and those ultimately don't work. They lead to bloodshed, loss of life, and no recognizable economic upturn, and there is an exhaustion with it.''
 That is not to say that he does not foresee more bitter, sometimes violent religious clashes. By their very nature, fundamentalists endure because they are motivated by transcendant ideas like salvation or, in some places, martyrdom. Mr. Appleby said he did not expect to see growth, but a persistence of ''deadly pockets of would-be revolutionaries who are empowered to a greater degree than ever by a little technological savvy and organizational ability.''
 The American government is poorly prepared to make the necessary distinctions between what is merely religious fervor and what is potentially dangerous fundamentalism, said Thomas F. Farr, who left his post as director of the office of international religious freedom in the State Department about a year ago.
 ''Most of my foreign service friends would rather have root canal than talk to a Muslim imam about religion,'' said Mr. Farr, who now works with the Institute for Global Engagement, a Washington-based group working on international religious freedom. 
 What they need to ask, he said, is: ''Do these religions have within them exclusivist tendencies in an absolutist sense, or can they be open to other human beings outside their circle? These are inevitably theological questions.''


GRAPHIC: Photos (Collage by Kandy Littrell
photographs from Associated Press, Getty Images, Reuters, Paulo Fridman/Getty Images for The New York Times, Nikolai Khalip for The New York Times, Rina Castelnuovo, and the Collection of Francesco Bigazzi. (pg. 1)
(Photo by Jacob Silberberg/Getty Images)
(Photo by Punit Paranjpe/Reuters)
(Photo by Dita Alangkara/Associated Press)
 (Photo by Paulo Fridman/Getty Images for The New York Times)(pg. 4)ChartsNIGERIA -- Christians, left, pray together at the City of David Church in the affluent Victoria Island section of Lagos.Followers of largest religions, 2005(Pentecostals are found in most Christian traditions)Avg. yearly growth of selected faiths, 1990-2000CHRISTIAN: 61.4 million totalAll Nigerian Christians: 3% growthProtestant (33.4% of Nigerian Christians*): 4.7Roman Catholic (30.5): 4.3Anglican (31.8): 3.5Independent (43.2): 2.3MUSLIM -- 54.7 million: 2.7ANIMIST -- 13.6 million: 2.9*Percentages add up to more than 100 because many people affiliate with more than one religion.INDIA -- Indian Hindus perform an immersion ritual with a statue of Ganesh, one of their most revered deities.HINDU -- 810.4 million: 1.7% growthMUSLIM -- 134.1 million: 2.0CHRISTIAN -- 68.2 millionAll Indian Christians: 2.4Independent (53.8% of Indian Christians): 3.1Protestant (28.6): 2.6Roman Catholic (26.7): 2.5ANIMIST -- 41.9 million: 2.4INDONESIA -- In Jakarta, a celebration of Id al-Fitr marks the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.MUSLIM -- 121.6 million: 1.4% growthNEW RELIGION -- 50.0 million: 1.5Hindu or Buddhist offshoots or combinations of Christianity with Eastern religions.CHRISTIAN -- 30.5 millionAll Indonesian Christians: 1.8Roman Catholic (23.0% of Indonesian Christians): 2.5Protestant (46.6): 2.3BRAZIL -- Mass celebration at Igreja Brasil para Cristo, a Pentecostal church in So Paulo.CHRISTIAN -- 166.8 millionAll Brazillian Christians: 1.3% growthProtestant (18.2% of Brazillian Christians): 2.0Roman Catholic (93.5): 1.3SPIRITIST -- 8.9 million: 2.4Sects combining African, Amerindian and animistic traditions with Catholicism(Source by Center for the Study of Global Christianity at Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (98%); RELIGION (95%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (91%); RAMADAN (90%); FUNDAMENTALISM (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); LIBERAL MEDIA (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICS (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); TSUNAMIS (69%); SOCCER (50%) Religion and Churches; Religion and Churches

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Laurie Goodstein; R Scott (Prof) Appleby; Thomas F Farr

GEOGRAPHIC: LAGOS, NIGERIA (73%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (67%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (59%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%) ILLINOIS, USA (51%) INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); INDIA (92%); NIGERIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); CENTRAL AMERICA (88%); ASIA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



159 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: Talking Trash in Downtown Danbury

BYLINE: By ROB COX

 BODY:
WHEN James Galante, the owner of a Danbury waste management company, announced in April that he would bring the city a national sports franchise, the Trashers of the United Hockey League, the team made no bones about what kind of image it would project. They would be the bad boys of the league. Mr. Galante's 18-year old son, A.J., was made the Trashers' president. A.J. Galante dubbed the team the Evil Empire. The team's theme song is the Guns N' Roses hard-rock anthem ''Welcome to the Jungle.'' Its motto is ''Bad Boys Talkin' Trash.'' 
 Since the season began in October, the Trashers have lived up to their billing.
 ''Every town they arrive in, because of their bad-boy image, attendance spikes,'' said Richard Brosal, president and chief executive of the 14-team league. Not only have the Trashers received the most penalty minutes of any team in the league, the owner himself was arrested last month and charged with punching a referee. 
 Mr. Galante, 51, who owns Automated Waste Disposal, faces third-degree misdemeanor assault charges for allegedly striking James Harper, a referee, at a Dec. 1 game in Danbury. Mr. Galante, who four years ago served a prison sentence for tax fraud, is scheduled to appear in Danbury Superior Court on Wednesday on the charges, which carry a maximum penalty of a year in jail.
 To the thrill of the area's hockey fans and many businesses near downtown's Main Street, where the teams plays in the Danbury Ice Arena, the Trashers have given Danbury a taste of professional sports. The team is turning in an impressive first season: it is in first place in its division, has led the league in points and is a likely contender for the Colonial Cup in May, the U.H.L.'s version of the National Hockey League's Stanley Cup trophy. And with the N.H.L. shut down because of a lockout, the Trashers have been drawing fans starved for hockey, including, according to the team, several people who hold season tickets for the New York Rangers. On some nights, the 2,500-seat arena is sold out.
 Mr. Galante, who lives in nearby New Fairfield, has been increasingly involved in charitable activities, including giving money to Danbury Hospital and his town's high school, and he has started a foundation to help families with soldiers in Iraq. So it didn't come as a surprise when he brought the Trashers to Danbury.
 But his team's reputation and his recent arrest have come at an awkward time, when the country is debating the issue of violence in professional sports. Coincidentally, on Dec. 8, when Mr. Galante pleaded not guilty to punching Mr. Harper, it was the same day a Michigan prosecutor handed down charges against five National Basketball Association players from the Indiana Pacers for fighting with Detroit Pistons fans in late November. That brawl preceded another at a Southeastern Conference college football game in November between Clemson University and the University of South Carolina. Walter Flanagan, the state's attorney in Danbury, cited those incidents as one of the reasons he was aggressively pursuing the Galante case.
 ''On the heels of what happened in the Southeastern Conference and in Detroit, things are totally out of control,'' Mr. Flanagan told The Associated Press. ''No one is going to be coddled here.'' 
 Indeed, the incident has raised questions among area residents, including the mayor, about what kind of reputation the team projects for the city. Nobody disputes that the arrival of the Trashers has been good news for the downtown entertainment district, but some worry that the violence may scare away families or attract hockey hooligans to the city center.
 ''Anytime you can attract 2,000 people into a part of the city that has been, if not depressed then certainly a challenge, that's a good thing,'' said Mayor Mark Boughton, who has attended a couple of Trashers games. ''But when you go from one or two fights in a game to a point where you start fighting before the puck drops, you have a problem.''
 Reed Findlay of Newtown, a marketing executive and former college hockey player, said he would not take his two young children to a Trashers game because of the violence.
 ''Hockey is rough, but when it's just three periods of gooning it up for the crowds, no thanks,'' he said. Instead, he takes his family to see the Bridgeport Sound Tigers, a minor league team, because he said the games are less violent. 
 Stephen Bull, president of the Greater Danbury Area Chamber of Commerce, said the benefits to Danbury, economic and otherwise, from the arrival of the team far outweigh any worries about its image.
 ''Everybody knows hockey is a rough sport, so I don't think it's projecting a negative image,'' he said. ''Maybe it is more a function of parental supervision. You don't take young kids to a boxing match, so perhaps they should not attend a hockey game, either.''
 The younger Mr. Galante, a freshman business major at Manhattanville College in Purchase, N.Y., is unapologetic about what happens on the ice. ''We have a tough team, but we're also putting more pucks in the net than anyone else,'' he said. ''It's like Nascar racing. People want to see the crashes, not the same guys going around and around the track. Basically, we know what people want to see.''
 Fans saw a lot on the night of Dec. 1. At the end of the second period, Josh Elzinga of the Kalamazoo Wings and Brad Wingfield of the Trashers, who was leading the league in penalty minutes at the time, began pushing each other behind the Kalamazoo net. What happened next is the topic of some debate. About a minute later, Mr. Wingfield was on the ice, his leg broken, after he was knocked down by Mr. Elzinga. Mr. Wingfield, who will miss the rest of the season, was carried off the ice on a stretcher.
 The elder Mr. Galante was furious that the referees did not immediately call a penalty on Mr. Elzinga and shouted at them from his private box overlooking the rink from the second floor. Mr. Elzinga was removed from the game and eventually given a five-game suspension. 
 After a tumultuous final period in which 18 penalties were called, the game ended, but Mr. Harper and Mr. Galante started to argue in the visitors' penalty box. Mr. Harper accused Mr. Galante of hitting him and Mr. Galante was arrested. The U.H.L. issued a warning and undisclosed fine to Mr. Galante for leaving the owners' box. Mr. Harper was suspended as a referee for five games.
 Mr. Galante declined to be interviewed, but his lawyer, Hugh Keefe of New Haven, said Mr. Galante did not intentionally strike Mr. Harper. According to the testimony of a witness submitted as part of the defense, Mr. Harper leaned into Mr. Galante as he raised his hand in a pointing motion.
 Mr. Keefe said as a result of the national furor over violence in professional sports, the incident had been blown out of proportion by the state's attorney. ''They are treating this case like it is Jack the Ripper, yet these kinds of things happen at many sports events and do not result in legal arrest,'' he said.
 Stephen Sedensky, the senior assistant state's attorney who is leading the prosecution, declined to comment on the specifics of the case, but said, ''We are just handling it as any other case and treating Mr. Galante like any other defendant.''
 The younger Mr. Galante said the incident had given the Trashers ''a little bit of a black eye, at least until people know the whole story.'' But he said it had not hurt attendance. In fact, it may have helped business. The team sold out the game following the incident for the first time since opening night. Mr. Galante also said hats and T-shirts with the team's logo of a trash can slap-shooting a puck have since been flying off the shelves, making the team the top merchandiser in the league.
 Mayor Boughton said he is confident the two sides will find a way to settle their differences.
 ''Whatever happened, and the facts are under dispute, any kind of incident of fighting in pro sports is going to be up on the radar screen,'' he said. ''This is a bump in the road.''
 Tom Devine, owner of the Two Steps Downtown Grille near the arena, said he thought the rink and the Trashers had helped bring people into downtown Danbury. He said his restaurant is filled with Trashers fans on home game nights.
 ''The owner of the team may be in hot water for something that happened at a game,'' Mr. Devine said, ''but I can tell you he has done a lot for the downtown by bringing the team here.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: James Galante, left, owner of the Danbury Trashers, and his son, A.J., president. Below, team merchandise. (Photographs by Scott Mullin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFEREES & UMPIRES (90%); SPORTS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); ARRESTS (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); SENTENCING (72%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (72%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (72%); MISDEMEANORS (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); CHARITIES (68%); TAX FRAUD (67%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (67%); TAX LAW (65%) Hockey, Ice

ORGANIZATION: Trashers (Hockey Team)

PERSON: James Galante; Rob Cox

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (74%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



160 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Too Busy? Maybe the Butler Can Do It

BYLINE: By Anthony Ramirez. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com

 BODY:
BAL AGRAWAL'S long journey from metals specialist in India to job entrepreneur in Westchester County begins with a Romeo and Juliet story: his own.
 In his native Mumbai, when he was 23, he fell in love with a Portuguese Catholic woman named Candida who, Mr. Agrawal knew, would be an affront to his Indian parents.
 Mr. Agrawal married Candida and left for the United States. But, at 41, Candida fell ill and died of cancer, leaving Mr. Agrawal to raise their young son, Alok, alone. 
 ''Once the personal pain went away, I didn't dwell on it,'' said Mr. Agrawal, now 54 and living in Chappaqua, N.Y. ''I try to turn all my experiences, even those that are wounding, into something positive.''
 As a single father who was also a busy executive with the large industrial corporation, Praxair, Mr. Agrawal became increasingly focused on household errands and how he could never get around to doing some of them on time: supermarket shopping, housecleaning, the usual.
 ''They were the typical sorts of errands that everyone has,'' said Mr. Agrawal, a round-faced man whose speech gallops when he becomes enthusiastic. ''But unlike everyone else, I literally had no family here to help at all, since I had left my family in India.''
 Soon, his musings about ''Wouldn't it be great if I could just hire butlers?'' became ''What if I formed a company that offered a small army of butlers for hire?''
 For more than a decade, Mr. Agrawal, a former Praxair executive in charge of business development as well as a Ph.D. in metallurgy from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, thought about what he should do and how he should do it.
 Last year, having set aside a large nest egg, Mr. Agrawal decided to quit the big company and form a small company, which, after scores of false starts for names, he called Lifeworx.
 ''We're a part-time intelligent butler,'' Mr. Agrawal said. 
 If that description doesn't quite give a crisp picture of what Lifeworx does, or if the name Lifeworx seems vague, Mr. Agrawal will concede the point. ''I'm still working on sharpening the marketing,'' he said.
 He just knows that Lifeworx (the quirky spelling comes from his hunch that companies with an X prosper) is a lot better than the scores of names he rejected, like ''I.Q. for Hire,'' ''Wisehands'' and even ''Wise Guys.''
 Currently, Lifeworx has only a dozen employees: three organizers (who attack chaotic closets and other household space), three household cleaners, two pet-care groomers and walkers, one chef, a nurse, as well as an office manager and marketer. Mr. Agrawal sees adding more esoteric skills to the group, like academic research.
 For now, Lifeworx has more employees than it has customers: 10 clients so far, all from Westchester County. Most of them are busy professionals, including three physicians, but two are retired, one in his 90's in an assisted-living facility.
 Since Lifeworx is still small and less than seven months old, it is still working out its procedures. But the approach of Debbie Campos, 38, the Lifeworx chef, is fairly typical. A former chef for private clients in Westchester County, she is the mother of two school-age children. 
 ''My job,'' she said, ''is to provide whatever chef needs a client would want, whether it's regular daily meals, a special dinner for two, a cooking lesson, or a party.''
 For one client last month, Ms. Campos cooked a two-person dinner of risotto, chicken with bacon and sage, and roasted asparagus. When the client needs meals for children, she might cook beef and broccoli stir-fry for the parent and enchiladas for the youngsters.
 Even though she is the Lifeworx chef, her job does not stop at cooking. In recent weeks she has shopped for groceries, picked up prescriptions, shined shoes, and since it was the holidays last month, wrapped Christmas presents.
 The federal Bureau of Labor Statistics tracks people who do each of those things but not people who do all of those things, let alone companies that employ such jacks-of-all-trades. Terry Schau, a bureau economist, who examined several possible occupations and categories that Lifeworx employees might resemble, finally gave up. ''The company's pretty much unique,'' he said, a bureaucratic term of art meaning it can't be analyzed. ''I'm not sure what its outlook is.''
 But, Mr. Schau offered in an aside, ''They have a nice little niche if it succeeds.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: HAVE FOOD, WILL TRAVEL -- Debbie Campos, a chef, prepared a meal in Scarsdale, N.Y., for a client of Lifeworx, which provides home services for busy professionals and retirees. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); MATERIALS SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (63%); CLEANERS (50%) Domestic Service; Domestic Service; Professions; Retirement; Labor

ORGANIZATION: Lifeworx

PERSON: Anthony Ramirez

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (73%) INDIA (91%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



161 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: For Unemployed, Wait for New Work Grows Longer

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

 BODY:
When Fabiola Quitiaquez lost her job in New York City last May, she moved to the Atlanta area, confident that she would easily find work there.
 ''I thought maybe it would take two or three months,'' she said.
 But after six months Ms. Quitiaquez was still unable to find a job, even cleaning houses or caring for the elderly. As her unemployment benefits ran out in November, she found herself at odds with news reports of economic recovery. ''I realized what all these people like me were going through,'' she said. 
 Ms. Quitiaquez, 50, is one of about 3.6 million American workers who ran out of unemployment insurance benefits last year, the most in at least three decades, said Isaac Shapiro, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a research and advocacy group that supports extending unemployment benefits. 
 Even as overall unemployment dropped last year, the share of unemployed workers who have been jobless for more than six months -- the point at which most state benefits run out -- has remained historically high. As of November, about 1.8 million, or one in five, unemployed workers were jobless for more than six months, compared with 1.1 million when the recession officially ended in November 2001.
 Since the start of the recession in March 2001, the average length of unemployment has risen to 20 weeks from 13. 
 ''Usually at this point in a recovery, job creation is skyrocketing, but so far that hasn't happened,'' said Kevin A. Hassett, economic director at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research, a conservative organization. ''It's not a partisan issue, it's a fact. The labor market is worse than in the typical recovery.'' 
 For Ms. Quitiaquez and many others who run out of unemployment benefits, this has meant a steady stream of difficult choices, as well as emotional and economic stress. She needed emergency dental work. Her daughter's car required expensive repairs.
 ''When I was working, things like that would happen, but I was getting a check every week, so I just said, 'I'll pay for this now, but next week I'll get another check,''' she said.
 At Pfizer, where she processed data for clinical studies, Ms. Quitiaquez said she made as much as $1,002 a week before taxes. Her weekly unemployment check was $405, which she supplemented by drawing on savings and a severance package from Pfizer that she said she could not discuss. She sold her modest apartment in New York and bought a house in Atlanta. 
 Now she has cut corners on her medical care, and she has put off the car repair, even though her daughter has to use a screwdriver to change gears. ''I don't know how much that's going to cost us,'' she said. ''Then I have high blood pressure and cholesterol. But if you go to a doctor, that's a luxury.''
 Ellie Wegener, executive director of the Employment Support Center, a nonprofit group that works with unemployed job seekers in Washington, D.C., said that compared with past years more of the people coming to her group ''are living on thin ice,'' with higher expenses and lower savings. 
 ''There's a lot of different responses,'' Ms. Wegener said. ''One of the major errors people make when they're suddenly unemployed, whether they're skilled or unskilled, is say, 'O.K., I'll take a vacation.' They feel that they'll get a job easily.''
 When they do not find work, unemployment begins what Richard H. Price, a professor of psychology at the University of Michigan, calls a ''chain of adversity,'' which can include marital tension, psychological stress and other problems not immediately tied to the loss of income. 
 Dr. Price studied 756 people for two years after they lost their jobs. ''The first thing that people don't understand about job loss is that it isn't the job loss that gets you,'' he said. ''It's the cascade of negative life events that follow and that reverberate through families. You lose your health benefits, then, if someone in the family has an illness, the family is forced to ration health care. Or you can't send a child to college, or make a car payment -- and then you don't have transportation to look for a job. Or you can't sell your house because everyone else in the neighborhood is unemployed, so property values are down.'' 
 Cleon Cox, who runs a support group called Job Finders in Portland, Ore., said Internet job boards have added to the stress for some people by creating false expectations and soaking up time and money. 
 ''In the beginning, the Internet is exciting because there are so many listings out there,'' Mr. Cox said. ''People say, 'This is great.' But most of the time they end up very frustrated and depressed. One guy said, 'It's as though my incoming phone line has been cut, because I'm sending stuff out there and getting nothing back.' I had a guy who sent 500 resumes, and what got him is he didn't get one response.'' 
 Mark Laska, a computer programmer in Hopkins, Minn., navigates a different pattern of long-term unemployment. For most of the last decade, he has found short periods of well-paid work, sometimes as a computer consultant, alternating with longer stretches without a job. This year he was unemployed until August, except for a one-day-a-week job he found at Walgreens. He does not have health insurance and goes to the emergency room when he needs medical care. He has not exhausted his unemployment benefits, but he has been homeless and once lived in the basement of a laundry. 
 ''They say stress is highest when you don't know what's going to happen next,'' Mr. Laska said. ''That's what I deal with day to day.''
 Though he would like a permanent job, he said, his resume and the job market make that difficult. 
 ''If I tell people all the jobs I did, they say, 'You're not steady,' or 'It looks like you don't want a permanent job, because you haven't worked one,''' he said. ''But I can't find one. Nowadays in the job market, the type of work available is part-time or contract work, or now they're calling it 'seasonal work.' You don't get benefits.''
 When Loretta and Eleanor Jones, sisters who live together in Hempstead, N.Y., both were laid off in May, they made a point not to run up credit card debt. They cut down on expenses, and were determined to make the most of their time. They cared for their mother, and both enrolled in training programs for certificates in electrocardiography and phlebotomy. 
 Loretta Jones, 42, lost her job as a lab assistant at Nassau University Medical Center. Her sister, 43, a senior collector at Chase Manhattan, said her department was moved to Texas and Florida. Their unemployment benefits ran out last month. 
 ''We're both going to be looking for jobs, but we hope school will improve us,'' Loretta Jones said. ''Our mother was already sick, so it gave us a chance to make sure she was being taken care of.''
 For Ms. Quitiaquez in Atlanta, being out of work and without unemployment benefits holds no such prospects. If she cannot find a job, she said, she will have to move in with her parents in the Bronx. Her lengthy unemployment has made her think differently about work and the self-esteem associated with it. 
 ''When I was working, I was always thinking of getting ahead, and my title was so important,'' she said. ''Now I don't care if I have a title. All I care about is to get a job. And to have health benefits.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Fabiola Quitiaquez, above, in Lawrenceville, Ga., where she moved after losing her job in New York. At right, Loretta and Eleanor Jones of Hempstead, N.Y., have cut expenses since May, when they were both laid off. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (75%); BUDGETS (75%); SEVERANCE PAY (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%) Labor; Unemployment

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (66%); PFIZER INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (56%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (51%); PFEB (BRU) (51%); PFE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (66%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (51%)

PERSON: John Leland

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



162 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; CHRONICLE / URBAN POLICY; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: In the Ghetto

BYLINE: By Leslie Kaufman. 
Leslie Kaufman covers urban poverty issues for The Times.

 BODY:

STREET WARS
Gangs and the Future of Violence.
By Tom Hayden.
New Press, $25.95.

BOARDWALK OF DREAMS
Atlantic City and the
Fate of Urban America.
By Bryant Simon.
Oxford, $35.

ROOT SHOCK
How Tearing Up City Neighborhoods Hurts America, and
What We Can Do About It.
By Mindy Thompson Fullilove.
Ballantine, $25.95.
 Books that have influenced the urban-policy debate over the past few generations have combined two features: they have created vivid pictures of the problems they address, and they have used bold strokes to sketch out solutions.
 This formula has served advocates on both ends of the political spectrum. On the left, Michael Harrington described the plight of America's forgotten poor and insisted that only a comprehensive expansion of medical, housing and cash benefits from Washington could remedy the injustices caused by accidents of birth. On the right, Charles Murray saw lives drained of meaning by the cycle of dependence and poverty and held out the possibility of redemption through self-reliance.
 Many of today's most celebrated books about the problems of our cities have taken us deep into the intimate details of lives crushed by urban circumstances; ''Random Family,'' by Adrian Nicole LeBlanc, and ''American Dream,'' by Jason DeParle, are first-rate achievements of journalistic empathy. Yet they shy away from grand policy pronouncements. These days, it seems harder to match stories of urban desperation and disarray with convincing policy prescriptions. And as some new books demonstrate, when writers attempt to employ the classic formula, they often fall short.
 In ''Street Wars: Gangs and the Future of Violence,'' Tom Hayden, the 1960's community organizer and former California state senator, gets off to a promising start by focusing on the recent upsurge in urban gang violence. As it turns out, police crackdowns in the 1990's did not so much destroy Los Angeles street gangs as temporarily displace them to Central America. Soon they returned with a vengeance; gang-related homicide rose 50 percent between 1999 and 2002.
 Hayden can be adept at directing our compassion. He is able to make a hero of sorts out of a dark character like Michael Herrara, a drug addict who risked returning to prison on a parole violation in order to head off a war brewing between gangs in Culver City and Santa Monica. But Hayden might have spent some of his narrative sympathy on the police and public officials who have to protect the rest of us from these rough young men. He is too determined to show that ''the system'' is corrupt. True, in Los Angeles it has been, and Hayden documents this with various government reports and newspaper articles. But that doesn't change the fact that the Los Angeles Police Department has a hard -- and necessary -- job to do.
 As for how he'd deal with the gangs, Hayden is eager to breathe new life into strategies proposed a decade ago by various left-leaning advocates. He wants the police to engage in shuttle diplomacy, conducting peace summits between warring gangs, building truces and even offering incentives in the form of jobs. Would sticks accompany these carrots? Don't count on it. Indeed, at one point, Hayden offers a telling aside about his son Troy, who, when a teenager, started hanging out with gang members and ''tagging'' the byways of Los Angeles with his graffiti. Hayden did nothing to stop the boy. ''Maybe I was a blind enabler, but maybe, too, he was right to rage against the hypocrisy of the society we had bequeathed him,'' Hayden writes. This is not the way to establish credibility as a crime fighter. 
 By contrast, Bryant Simon, a professor of history at Temple University, uses the mistakes of the urban past in''Boardwalk of Dreams: Atlantic City and the Fate of Urban America'' to present a cautionary tale about Atlantic City's rise, fall and rebirth, told through the prism of race relations.
 Between the two world wars, the seaside resort pioneered the development of gaudy, themed hotels that were magnets for the fast-growing populations of middle-class immigrants from neighboring Philadelphia and New York. For this clientele, a weekend at an ersatz Blenheim Palace was a slice of the American dream.
 But the scene was far less attractive behind the bright lights and the boardwalk. The key to Atlantic City's success, Simon argues, was its decision in the 1920's to keep blacks out of the resort areas; segregation made the fantasy retreat feel safe. Whites interested in a taste of danger and the transgressive had to go to the black side of town, where they could find striptease joints, drag shows and the erotic caperings of a famous act called the ''Sextuplet Dancers.'' Atlantic City was, in effect, our first Disneyland, sanitized for the middle class and removed, in large part, from the public square. 
 Even while lamenting Atlantic City's garish past, Simon lovingly resurrects it. But his race thesis doesn't hold up since, by his own account, the city prospered well before the worst of the segregation. White flight coincided with the civil rights movement of the 1960's, as Simon shows, but integration was only one factor. Just as important was the spread of car culture and air travel, which made other vacation options available. 
 Is Atlantic City's recent comeback a return to its ugly history? Simon seems to think so. As he points out, impoverished local blacks have not benefited from the city's re-emergence, in large part because the state siphons away so many of the tax dollars generated by gambling. But this is a far cry from the days of segregation. Nor, as Simon seems to intimate, are other American cities thinking of imitating Trump-style Taj Mahal development. The casinos were a desperate answer to a desperate decline -- hardly a template for reviving urban America.
 A book even more disappointing in its policy pronouncements is ''Root Shock: How Tearing Up City Neighborhoods Hurts America, and What We Can Do About It,'' by Mindy Thompson Fullilove, a professor of psychiatry and public health at Columbia University. Fullilove wants to inspire a generation of black professionals to rebuild the thriving and diverse ghettos of the 1940's and 50's, urban enclaves that have received a bad rap in her view. Though the products, largely, of racism, they were also places where blacks could live apart from white prejudice and nurture their talents. The ghettos gave us geniuses like Miles Davis and Paul Robeson.
 Fullilove's romanticized view of the urban past draws much of its energy from the rage she feels at its demise. The villain is the Housing Act of 1954, which funneled millions into urban renewal. Black neighborhoods in many cities were thoughtlessly plowed under to make way for highways, office towers and supposedly more humane (often high-rise) housing. The effects were ruinous. Fullilove adds little to the many existing accounts of this public policy disaster, but for those who may not be aware of it, she will open eyes. 
 Fullilove's account may in fact inspire some black professionals to opt for marginal urban neighborhoods over leafy suburbs. She relates a number of inspiring personal stories, including her sister-in-law's struggle to rebuild a middle-class black community in the toughest corners of Orange, N.J. But boosterism is not much of an agenda, and it hardly comes to terms with the deeper problems that have left so many parts of urban America in a state of chronic disorder and underdevelopment.
 As people who deal with the world of urban poverty know, describing these deeper problems is easy. It's finding solutions that's hard. Though we have seen notable progress in recent years in reducing violent crime and welfare dependency, New York and other big cities still face record levels of homelessness, unemployment among black males in excess of 50 percent and a flood of ex-convicts being released from prison with little in the way of education or job prospects. 
 Stories of the hardships these people face are always welcome, as are historical accounts that explain how we got here. But much remains to be done, and the big thinkers seem to have turned their attention elsewhere. What we need from writers now, odd as it sounds, is more pontificating in the grand old style -- and the grander, the better. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Viktor Koen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); LITERATURE (90%); GANGS (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); WRITERS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); PAROLE (67%) Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature

PERSON: Leslie Kaufman; Tom Hayden; Bryant (Prof) Simon; Mindy Thompson Fullilove

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); CENTRAL AMERICA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



163 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2637 words

HEADLINE: German's Claim of Kidnapping Brings Investigation of U.S. Link

BYLINE: By DON VAN NATTA Jr. and SOUAD MEKHENNET

DATELINE: MUNICH 

 BODY:
On the afternoon of Dec. 31, 2003, Khaled el-Masri was traveling on a tourist bus headed for the Macedonian capital, Skopje, where he was hoping to escape the ''holiday pressures'' of home life during a weeklong vacation.
 When the bus reached the Serbia-Macedonia border, Mr. Masri said, he was asked the usual questions: Where are you going? How long will you be staying? Mr. Masri, a German citizen, did not think much of it, until he realized that the border guards had confiscated his passport. 
 The bus moved on, but an increasingly panicked Mr. Masri was ordered to stay behind. A few hours later, Mr. Masri, a 41-year-old unemployed car salesman, said he was taken to a small, windowless room and was accused of being a terrorist by three men who were dressed in civilian clothes but carrying pistols. 
 ''They asked a lot of questions -- if I have relations with Al Qaeda, Al Haramain, the Islamic Brotherhood,'' recalled Mr. Masri, who was born in Lebanon. ''I kept saying no, but they did not believe me.''
 It was the first day of what Mr. Masri said would become five months in captivity. In an interview, he said that after being kidnapped by the Macedonian authorities at the border, he was turned over to officials he believed were from the United States. He said they flew him to a prison in Afghanistan, where he said he was shackled, beaten repeatedly, photographed nude, injected with drugs and questioned by interrogators about what they insisted were his ties to Al Qaeda. 
 He was released without ever being charged with a crime. The German police and prosecutors have been investigating Mr. Masri's allegations since he reported the matter to them last June, two weeks after his return to Germany. 
 Martin Hofmann, a senior national prosecutor in Munich who handles terrorism cases and is in charge of the Masri investigation, and another official, a senior organized crime investigator in southern Germany, say they believe Mr. Masri's story. They said investigators interviewed him for 17 hours over two days, that his story was very detailed and that he recounted it consistently. In addition, the officials said they had verified specific elements of the case, including that Mr. Masri was forced off the bus at the border. 
 Still, much of Mr. Masri's story has not been corroborated. His assertion that he was held by Americans in Afghanistan, for example, is solely based on what he said he observed or was told after he was taken off the bus in Macedonia.
 Mr. Masri said he was confounded by his captors' insistence that he was a Qaeda operative. He attends a mosque in Ulm, Germany, that has been closely watched by the authorities because several suspected terrorists have worshiped there. But those authorities say Mr. Masri has never been a suspect. 
 Mr. Masri's lawyer, Manfred R. Gnjidic, said he suspected that his client was swept into the C.I.A.'s policy of ''renditions'' -- handing custody of a prisoner from United States control to another country for the purposes of interrogation -- because he has the same name, with a slightly different spelling, as a man wanted in the Sept. 11 attacks. The policy has come under increasing criticism as other cases have come to light recently.
 Although the German authorities say they have no specific suspects in the Masri case, they say they are looking into the possible role of the United States and other countries. 
 ''It is an unusual case,'' Mr. Hofmann said. ''The political dimension is huge. Under German law, we can charge a person with kidnapping, but not a country. Countries cannot kidnap people.'' 
 Officials at Germany's national intelligence agency said they are also investigating. They said they asked the F.B.I. for assistance last fall but have received little help. 
 A senior administration official said the Bush administration had been aware of these allegations for some time, but he referred questions to the F.B.I. and the C.I.A.
 In a series of interviews, neither the C.I.A. nor the F.B.I. would deny or confirm Mr. Masri's allegations. A C.I.A. spokeswoman said the agency would not comment at all. Senior F.B.I. officials in Washington acknowledged that they received a request for help from the Germans last October, and said they were assisting in the investigation. The officials disputed that they had not worked aggressively on the case.
 ''This is a very ongoing thing, and we are working together with the Germans to resolve it,'' a senior official said. ''Our hope is we can get to the bottom of it.'' The official declined to discuss whether the bureau had had any contact with the C.I.A. or Pentagon about the allegations.
 Golan Pavlovski, a spokesman for the Interior Ministry of the Republic of Macedonia, said he had no information about Mr. Masri's case. 
 When he returned home last June, Mr. Masri said, he felt relief but also rage. Asked whom he blames, Mr. Masri, a burly, soft-spoken man, looked at his hands for a long moment before saying, ''Of course, I blame the Americans first.''

Similar Cases
 Mr. Masri's allegations bear similarities to the case of Maher Arar, a Canadian born in Syria who was suspected of being a Qaeda operative. Mr. Arar, who was detained in New York in 2002, says he was sent by the United States to Syria, where he says he was repeatedly tortured during 10 months in prison.
 A second detainee, Mamdouh Habib, an Australian, has asserted in court papers that he was tortured in an Egyptian prison for nearly six months in 2001 before being transferred to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The allegations were contained in a motion filed with a federal court recently. Mr. Habib's lawyer has asked the federal district court in Washington to block the Bush administration from sending him back to Egypt, asserting that he would be tortured again there.
 The C.I.A. began the renditions program in the early 1990's, but its use has increased since the Sept. 11 attacks. Human rights organizations, who say the policy is tantamount to government-sponsored kidnapping, estimate that dozens of ''high value'' detainees are being held in secret locations around the world. C.I.A. officials have acknowledged that the agency conducts renditions, but say they do not condone the use of torture during interrogations. 
 Mr. Masri, who had not gone public with his case, agreed to give an interview last month after being approached by The New York Times. During the interview, he spoke without notes, and in great detail, about his case. He said he was able to recount his time in captivity because he wrote down his experiences right after he was released. 
 The timeline was corroborated by documents, including a bus ticket and a stamp on his passport in Albania on May 29, the date he said he was released. He returned to Germany on June 3. His account also matched details in a report about his case written by Amnesty International, whose officials interviewed Mr. Masri on June 21. 
 ''Mr. Masri had been questioned twice for a lot of hours, and he always has said the same things, he never changed details,'' Mr. Hofmann said in an interview about his country's investigation. ''Therefore I don't think it would be possible that someone could invent such a story.''
 Mr. Masri said his ordeal began after he decided to go on a short vacation without his family after arguing with his wife, choosing Skopje because it was inexpensive and friends had recommended it.
 After being interrogated the first night in Macedonia, Mr. Masri, who speaks German and Arabic, was taken to a motel on the outskirts of Skopje, where he said several men held him for 23 days. ''They told me: 'You are not arrested. You aren't handcuffed, are you?''' Mr. Masri recalled. But he said he was not permitted to leave.

Questions About Al Qaeda
 He said the men continued to question him about Al Qaeda. After several days, Mr. Masri said he lost his temper, demanded to speak with officials from the German government and tried to escape. ''One man put his pistol in his hand and showed it to me, to stop me from leaving,'' Mr. Masri said.
 Another week went by, he said, before another man arrived to question him. ''He was nice to me,'' he recalled. ''He said we'll make a deal -- you say you are an Al Qaeda member, and sign a paper saying that, and we'll put you back on a plane and you will be deported to Germany.''
 Mr. Masri said he refused. The man left but returned two days later, he said, and this time he was more combative. ''He said I'm not cooperative, I bring problems on myself, they know everything about me,'' Mr. Masri said. He said the man asserted that Mr. Masri was originally from Egypt and had been to a Qaeda training camp in Pakistan -- allegations that Mr. Masri said he repeatedly denied.
 After three and a half weeks, Mr. Masri said he was told that he could return to Germany. The Macedonians took a statement from him on videotape to show he was in good health when he left their country, he said. Afterward, Mr. Masri said, he was permitted to leave the motel, but a few steps down the road, a pickup truck pulled up next to him, and several men grabbed him.
 Mr. Masri said that a hood was put over his head but that he believed he was driven to the airport because he could hear the roar of planes. He said he was taken to a room and beaten. He said his clothes were cut off with knives, and he heard the sounds of cameras taking pictures. ''After I was naked they took off my mask so I could see, and all the people were in black clothes and black masks,'' he said. ''There were seven or eight people.''
 Mr. Masri said a couple of men put him in a blue warm-up suit, handcuffed him and tied his hands to his belt, put plugs in his ears and blindfolded him. He said he was put on a plane, where he was forced to lie on the floor. Someone injected his arm, he said, and he fell into a deep sleep.
 After an unknown number of hours, he said, he awoke to find that the plane had landed. He said he was taken to a building and imprisoned in a tiny, cold cell. ''Everything was dirty -- a dirty blanket, dirty water, like from a fish aquarium,'' he said.
 On the walls in his cell were words written in Arabic and what he believed was Farsi. Mr. Masri said that his captors and fellow prisoners told him he was in Kabul, Afghanistan.
 That first evening in prison, Mr. Masri said, a man he assumed was a doctor, wearing a thin black mask, came to his cell to take a vial of blood. He said he believed that the doctor was American because he spoke English. Mr. Masri said he was repeatedly punched in the head and neck by several guards who accompanied the doctor. He also said he was forced to run up and down stairs with his arms shackled behind his back.
 The following morning, Mr. Masri said, an interrogator walked into his cell and, in a thick Lebanese accent, began shouting at him. ''He told me, 'Where you are right now there is no law, no rights, no one knows you are here, and no one cares about you.'''
 Mr. Masri said the man had a stack of documents and told him they knew ''everything'' about him, including that he was an associate of Mohamed Atta, one of the Sept. 11 hijackers, and Ramzi bin al-Shibh, who is believed to have helped the hijackers. They also accused him of being a senior Qaeda operative who was trained in Jalalabad, Afghanistan, he said. ''I denied everything -- I kept saying, 'No, no, no.'''
 His lawyer, Mr. Gnjidic, said he thought that his client had been confused with the Sept. 11 suspect Khalid al-Masri, because that man is believed by American authorities to have had contact with Mr. bin al-Shibh and Mr. Atta and to have been partly responsible for directing them to a Qaeda training camp in Afghanistan. It was there that the two men met Osama bin Laden, who enlisted them for the Sept. 11 mission. 
 More weeks went by, and Mr. Masri said he then met a man who presented himself as a top lieutenant at the prison. He believes that man was also an American, based on his accent.
 ''They asked me about Ulm, how many people go to the mosque, how often do they pray,'' he said. ''I told them. When I asked why I was there, I never got an answer.''

A Hunger Strike
 In March, Mr. Masri said he began a hunger strike. On the 35th day, he said an Afghan prison guard told him, ''The Americans don't care if you live or die.''
 Two days later, he said, he was beaten again and forcibly fed liquid through a tube shoved down his throat.
 Mr. Masri said he then ended his hunger strike. He said he was getting to know his fellow prisoners -- there were two Pakistani brothers and a man from Tanzania who had been there for several months. He also said there was a Pakistani man who had been there nearly two years. 
 ''I'm sure those men will take revenge, after what was done to them,'' Mr. Masri said. ''Some said to me -- we hope to get out of here and then have the power to make something happen against the Americans.''
 Weeks went by. In May, Mr. Masri said he met a man he believed was German and who was introduced as ''Sam.'' The man posed the same series of questions -- mostly about any dealings he may have had with Mr. Atta and Mr. bin al-Shibh. ''He was friendly,'' Mr. Masri said. ''So I said, 'Can you please tell me if my family knows where I am?' And the German said, 'No, they don't know.''' 
 The German authorities said they were unable to confirm Mr. Masri's account of a German agent.

The Return Home
 A week later, Mr. Masri said, he was blindfolded, taken to the airport and put on a flight, and then placed on a bus and driven for six or seven hours. His blindfold was removed, and a man told him to walk down a deserted, winding mountain road, he said. ''I had the feeling after a few steps, they'd shoot me in the back.'' 
 He walked around the bend and came upon a border crossing, where three men in uniforms waited for him, he said. Mr. Masri said he told one of the men about his five months in captivity. ''The man was laughing at me,'' he said. ''He said: 'Don't tell that story to anyone because no one will believe it. Everyone will laugh.''' 
 Mr. Masri asked where they were; the man said in northern Albania, near the Macedonian border. The border officer handed Mr. Masri a plastic box containing the belongings that were taken from him on the first day of his captivity, including his passport and cash, he said. The man told him he was free to go, and his passport was stamped by the nation of Albania, on May 29, 2004.
 From there, he bought an airplane ticket and flew to Frankfurt. Once in Germany, Mr. Masri said he returned to his hometown, Ulm, but his wife and four sons, ages 2 to 6, were not at home. ''I feared the worst -- I feared something happened to my family,'' he said. Four days later, he found them at his wife's mother's home in Lebanon.
 In an interview, Mr. Masri's wife, Aischa, said she had moved back to Lebanon after not hearing from her husband. She said she began thinking, ''Maybe he has gone to marry another woman.''
 Mrs. Masri, 29, said she did not expect to see him again. ''The boys have cried a lot in Lebanon. They always have asked me, ''Why are we here, Mom, and where is Daddy?''' she said, and then began to weep. ''From time to time, I called his friends in Germany and asked them if they heard anything from him or about him. But no one knew anything.''
 Mr. Masri said he was still trying to rebuild his life. He said he had no steady employment, and almost no friends. ''The phone doesn't ring -- people have heard, and they don't want to see me,'' he said.
 It was not until last August that Mr. Masri was told by his lawyer that he had the same name as the Sept. 11 suspect.
 Mr. Masri said he was bedeviled by questions that he and the German authorities still could not answer. ''There are so many questions,'' he said. ''How did it happen? Why did it happen? I don't know.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Khaled el-Masri said he left his wife and children for a weeklong vacation and returned to them after five months of captivity. (Photo by Dieter Mayr for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); INTERVIEWS (87%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (86%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); ORGANIZED CRIME (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); TORTURE (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); RELIGION (67%) Terrorism; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; Kidnapping; Torture; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Prisoners of War; Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (82%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Orgn); Central Intelligence Agency

PERSON: Don Jr Van Natta; Souad Mekhennet; Khaled El- Masri

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); SERBIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ALBANIA (79%); LEBANON (79%) New York City; Washington (DC) ; Macedonia (Former Yugoslav Republic); Albania; Germany; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



164 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 4730 words

HEADLINE: The Anti Europeanist

BYLINE: By Christopher Caldwell. 
Christopher Caldwell, a new contributing writer for the magazine, is a senior editor at The Weekly Standard.

 BODY:

I. The Raging Squire Last month, Robert Kilroy-Silk -- the best-known member of Britain's most-talked-about political party, the anti-European U.K. Independence Party (UKIP) -- found himself being covered in animal feces by an angry stranger. The bucket-wielding assailant ambushed Kilroy-Silk on his way to a radio appearance in Manchester, shouting something about avenging Kilroy-Silk's controversial remarks on Islam. It was good that he did, because people dislike Kilroy-Silk for such a great variety of reasons that not stating your grievance directly would risk misunderstanding.
 In elections for the European Parliament on June 10, UKIP (pronounced ''you kip'') won 12 of the United Kingdom's 78 seats. (Turnout was 38 percent, up significantly from the last European parliamentary election.) UKIP's stated goal was to pull Britain out of that very Parliament -- in fact, out of the European Union altogether. Much of UKIP's success can be attributed to Kilroy-Silk, who was elected to represent the Midlands in the European Parliament. He came to the party after years of wild success as a morning-TV-talk-show host. UKIP activists tend to be a little odd or to have curious private theories about this or that; Kilroy-Silk, while highly opinionated and eccentric enough in his way, was at ease striding the national stage. By the end of summer, he was striking fear into the once proud Conservative Party. It is just possible that he and UKIP will transform the politics of Britain and of Europe.
 Kilroy-Silk lives at Beel House, a 17th-century manor in Buckinghamshire (when he isn't at his spread in Marbella, Spain). The house's previous owners include Ozzy Osbourne and Dirk Bogarde. You approach the place down a wooded driveway of about a quarter-mile that ends in a ring of coral-colored pebbles beneath several gargantuan cedars of Lebanon, their lower boughs carefully propped on posts. ''Politics has never been my whole life,'' Kilroy-Silk said in the front room. ''A very important part. But I've always had a lot of other interests. Look around you.'' There was a herd of fallow deer across a meadow. Out back were the Vietnamese pheasants and bantams that Kilroy-Silk breeds.
 At 62, he is an exotically handsome man, with a very un-English facial glow and ice blue eyes. Arguments rage in British gossip columns over whether he achieves his coloring through tanning lamps or creams. ''Tangerine man,'' Boris Johnson, editor of The Spectator and a Tory member of the British Parliament, calls him.
 Kilroy-Silk was born in 1942, the son of a navy hand named William Silk, who was killed in action the following year. His mother married Silk's friend John Kilroy, hence the hyphenated name. Robert was brought up in a tough working-class neighborhood in Birmingham. When he told me of the big gatherings that his extended family now enjoys at Beel House, he noted with some pride that his relations live in public housing: ''Every one of them lives in a council house, or a council house that they bought, and they're virtually all manual labor.''
 After studying politics and economics at the London School of Economics, Kilroy-Silk was, for seven years, at the height of student unrest in the late 60's and early 70's, a university lecturer in political philosophy. This stage of his life appears to embarrass him a bit. When asked if he was on a path to a career in academia, he answered with a quick: ''No! My whole interest from age 16 -- from earlier -- was politics.'' He taught a course on political philosophy from Aristotle to Marx, but he is proudest of the course he taught on modern political ideologies, which he describes as ''communism-socialism-anarchism-global village-Daniel Bell. . . . ''
 For a dozen years after 1974, he held a seat in the British Parliament for the Labor Party. On his way to Westminster to take his seat, he told a filmmaker he would like to be prime minister within 15 years. No one dismissed him as nuts. ''If he'd stayed true to the Labor Party, he'd be in the cabinet now,'' Britain's minister for Europe, Dennis MacShane, told me.
 Instead, Kilroy-Silk went on TV. In 1986, BBC producers, hoping to imitate the success of Phil Donahue in America and fascinated by the phenomenon of Oprah Winfrey, turned Kilroy-Silk into ''Kilroy,'' as his show was called. It was patterned exactly on its American models, right down to a peripatetic format and topics that lurched between the mawkish and the lurid: sex addicts, adopted people seeking their birth families, does astrology work?
 Women, particularly working-class women, loved Kilroy. The quality press, if it dealt with him at all, dismissed him. The Times of London called him ''the most unctuous man in broadcasting.'' But he also occasionally did shows on, for example, the international arms trade. To the smarminess that comes with the territory, he added something tougher and smarter than an American would expect under the circumstances: an in-your-face, working-class common-sensicality that made him more like a hard-bitten, boned-up newspaper columnist than a TV presenter. Indeed, he turned to column writing too -- first in a serious way for The Times in the late 80's, later in a piece-o'-my-mind grab bag of populist gripes, which he writes for The Sunday Express to this day.
 Kilroy-Silk's television success might also have continued had not his secretary, last January, mistakenly re-sent a nine-month-old column to The Sunday Express, which reprinted it under a new headline, ''We Owe Arabs Nothing.'' The column had failed to draw much attention the first time it was published. The second time around, the uproar was immediate from Muslim groups. Of the Arabs, Kilroy-Silk wrote:
 ''Few of them make much contribution to the welfare of the rest of the world. Indeed, apart from oil -- which was discovered, is produced and is paid for by the West -- what do they contribute? Can you think of anything? . . . What do they think we feel about them? . . . That we admire them for the coldblooded killings in Mombasa, Yemen and elsewhere? That we admire them for being suicide bombers, limb-amputators, women repressors?''
 The BBC suspended Kilroy-Silk and then forced him to resign.
 A few months later, he was a U.K. Independence Party member and a candidate for the European Parliament. It was a natural fit. Kilroy-Silk has been skeptical of European integration since his Labor days and liked UKIP's nonconformist verve. Meanwhile, his firing had upset many viewers. His arrival in UKIP married his buzz to the party's and drew support from Joan Collins and other conservative celebrities. In the June elections for the European Parliament, the Tory and Labor parties together took less than half the British vote. UKIP's taking 16 percent and a dozen seats (of 732 Europe-wide) meant its delegation was almost as large as that of Ireland or Denmark. Suddenly British opposition to the European Union was unignorable. It was even a bit chic.
 As for Kilroy-Silk, he was again in the limelight, having won back everything he had lost with his departure from the BBC, and then some. Suddenly he was a pivotal figure in the party -- not just as a publicity gimmick but as a tactician and theoretician. With his Labor pedigree, he could pull voters out of the woodwork where no one in UKIP had thought to look for them -- he even insisted forcefully on the need to welcome ethnic minorities into the British political family. And he seemed -- for the first time in his professional life, perhaps -- to be part of a thoroughly sympathetic fellowship, a band of grateful allies who would never fire him for lapses against political correctness. He was not breeding resentment and bruising egos. But that was before he sought to take over the party.
UKIP, like many rejectionist parties elsewhere in Europe, sees the nation as under threat from a distant clan of nit-picking, overeducated, privileged liberal bureaucrats for whom the European Union is the culmination of humankind's political evolution. Often, but not always, such parties combine nativism with class resentment. They tend to rely on a charismatic figure to give them direction. Kilroy-Silk seems born for that task. His career and his worldview have a lot to do with the embitterment that Britain's class system still leaches into the country's politics. Journalists snicker at his ''unmistakable Brummie accent,'' Brummies being people from Birmingham. Kilroy-Silk's fellow Brummie Judy Rumbold wrote in The Guardian, ''My theory is that when, rarely, Brummies are lucky enough to be given a platform, they are outspoken and bumptious in an attempt to cover up or overcompensate for the shortfalls in their intonation and what is perceived by many to be a serious lack of intellectual clout.''
 Just as a strong European Union could wind up bringing back the pre-Thatcher British malaise of overregulation, in the view of many UKIPpers, so the bien-pensant snobs who promote the European ideal could be reasserting a version of the old country-house condescension. Kilroy-Silk is well heeled, well read and well dressed, but social condescension may be the only thing that can make him express hatred. ''I hate authority that isn't accountable,'' he told me. And: ''I hate snobs.'' And later: ''I can't abide anybody who talks down.''
 Against a background of phoniness, snobbery and class conflict, the popular media can look like a way out. Phonies talk about things like European convergence; real people watch shows like ''Kilroy.'' ''The British people are fed up with being lied to,'' Kilroy-Silk said. ''I know it from my show for 17 years.'' The show, to him, was one long focus group.
 But media success is not the same as political success, and Kilroy-Silk's chat-show buoyancy may lead him to alienate yet another constituency: his fellow members of the European Parliament. In Brussels in late October, the president of the parliamentary chamber threatened to have him ejected when, in the tense moments before a scheduled vote on whether to accept the candidates for a new European commission, Kilroy-Silk began pounding his desk and hollering: ''Oi! Oi! Is this a proper parliament?'' Graham Watson, the British leader of the liberal-democrat grouping, sneered, ''I'm quite ashamed that Britain is known for its football hooligans and even more so when I see their political representatives here in Parliament.''

II. Cranks, Weirdos and Gadflies
''The man on the Clapham omnibus may not understand the legal difference between obligations under treaty and obligations under a constitution,'' Godfrey Bloom, a UKIP member of the European Parliament, or M.E.P., was saying. He was sitting in the lobby of the Thistle Hotel in Bristol during a Sunday morning lull in UKIP's annual convention in October. ''But the English people know when they're being conned.''
 Bloom is an emblematic figure in UKIP. He is smart, good-natured and moderate in many of his positions. He has a central worry as a member of Parliament and as the investment-fund manager he is in civilian life: namely, that the European Union will reimpose much of the business-killing regulation that Britain broke free of only after a decade of strife over Thatcherism.
 This is not an outre position. But in a UKIP man's hands it can begin to seem quirky. When Bloom insists that he is sincerely outraged over an issue like the requirement that British butchers use the metric system, or when his fellow member of the European Parliament Jeffrey Titford claims to shudder at the prospect of British athletes competing in the Olympics under the European flag, it is hard to tell whether they mean it or are having a little joke. Mike Nattrass, the party's deputy leader and a European M.E.P., speculated in the fall, a few days after the Beslan massacre, that Britain's position in the European Union was not unlike Chechnya's in Russia. ''I hope we never have to fight our way out,'' he said. Another UKIP European M.E.P., Tom Wise, has said he doesn't think any plane hit the Pentagon on Sept. 11, 2001, and refers baffled interlocutors to a French Web site for the proof. Steve Reed, chairman of one UKIP chapter, wrote to The Yorkshire Post defending oil over alternative energy on environmentalist grounds. ''Fossil-fuels are constantly being produced on the tectonic conveyor-belt,'' he explained, whereas ''taking energy from winds and tides irreversibly enervates the weather system and slows the rotation of the Earth.''
 UKIP's annual party conference was not designed to ease worries about the party's seriousness. Out in the lobby at the convention hall, Ben Buckland, a kilt-wearing bookshop owner from a small town in Northern Ireland, who earlier that morning marched the M.E.P.'s down the aisle with a bagpipe fanfare, revealed that he had always been skeptical of those who considered European union a Catholic conspiracy until he read Adrian Hilton's ''Principality and Power of Europe,'' which one of the makeshift bookstalls was selling, along with volumes comparing the European Union to the Holy Roman Empire and the Third Reich and subscriptions to This England magazine (the patriotic quarterly ''for all who love our green and pleasant land'').
 Nearby were photographic shrines featuring some of the celebrities who have endorsed UKIP: Joan Collins, who clarified in October that she was a ''patron'' of the party, as opposed to a ''supporter''; the former cricketer Geoffrey Boycott; and (a zealot until his death in April) Norris McWhirter, editor of the Guinness World Records book. There was no such publicity for the party's smattering of former Tory M.P.'s (like Piers Merchant and Jonathan Aitken) whose careers have been stalled by various scandals. The American political consultant Dick Morris, who joined UKIP as a strategist two years ago, when both he and the party were down on their luck, was at the Bristol convention, over near the bar, meeting a bemused-looking Kilroy-Silk for the very first time.
 At Beel House, when I had remarked to Kilroy-Silk, ''There's one thing I found strange about your party . . . ,'' he flashed a broad smile and interrupted, with mock astonishment: ''Only one? I've found many.''

III. Should Brussels Worry?
The European Union has been around in some form for half a century, but the Continent's nonbureaucratic citizens are only just beginning to take it seriously. From a group of six nations that joined in the 50's to bind France and Germany together through a coal-and-steel union, ''Europe,'' as it is confusingly called, grew gradually into a larger European Economic Community. Britain -- after being vetoed in the 60's by Charles de Gaulle -- signed up in 1973, and its citizens passed a referendum approving membership two years later. The 1992 Maastricht Treaty committed the countries to turning the economic union into a political one. By 2007, the 25 countries in today's European Union should have either signed or rejected a constitution meant to set the stage for a unified European government that may eventually make policy on economics, diplomacy and defense.
 Europe's citizens differ sharply on whether this is truly a good idea, with feelings varying from country to country. In Denmark, which barely accepted the Maastricht Treaty and (like Britain) chose not to abandon its currency for the euro, attitudes toward Europe can be quite hostile. In Spain, whose economy was modernized largely thanks to European ''structural funds'' (subsidies), the European Union wins steady majority support. But Europe's governing classes are not similarly split. ''Europeanism'' is the policy of all the mainstream left and right parties in most of Europe's major countries. The many Europeans who are suspicious of the entire project complain of a ''democratic deficit.'' This creates a rich vein of opportunity for populism, and Kilroy-Silk is a master at working it. At his Manchester radio appearance, the one where he had been showered with dung just before arriving, he harped on the cabinet of the British prime minister, Tony Blair, assailing its members for being an unaccountable elite who impose ''one standard for them, another for the rest of us.''
 The nature of popular resistance to European integration (or ''Euroskepticism'') varies widely. In France, it includes a powerful corner of the Socialist Party, which fears that the constitution will drag France into free-market arrangements that could destroy its social compact. Resisting, too, is Jean-Marie Le Pen's fascistic National Front, which fears the erosion of Frenchness -- cultural and demographic -- that will result from the European Union's bias toward open borders and (again) free markets. The resistance also includes a party led by the European M.E.P. and aristocrat Philippe de Villiers, who works closely with UKIP. De Villiers has built a history theme park in Puy du Fou that includes a sound-and-light show about the Vendee uprising against the French revolutionary government, which began in 1793 and brought tens of thousands of common citizens into alliance with royalists -- and the lessons of the uprising are not lost on Euroskeptics. The park draws 20,000 visitors a day in the summer.
 Such resistance, in all its variety, is replicated across Europe. Poland's Euroskeptics include anti-Semites and Poles worried about the European Union threat to the United States-Polish defense relationship. There are Swedish Greens, fearful Greek monks and Czechs who want to give their country a chance to breathe after the cold war before seeing it swallowed up in another (albeit more benign) multinational empire. As a result, an intense public-relations game is played out in every European country. For the anti-European camp, resistance is a matter of despising things that it is healthy to despise -- like unaccountable bureaucrats and arbitrary regulation. For the pro-European camp, resistance to ever greater union is a matter of despising things that it is noxious to despise -- like foreigners, particularly dark-skinned ones. As the former European external-affairs commissioner Chris Patten put it: UKIP, in its rejection of Europe, embodies ''a particularly unattractive, blazered xenophobia. They live in a fantasy world of conspiracies against gallant Blighty, white cliffs, Dambusters, Panzer helmets, a world in which every foreigner is a threat, a world which is totally at variance with the one in which we have to earn our living and keep the peace.''
 British Euroskepticism is particularly important because it involves a global tug of war. Many Europeans hope that a united Europe will be large enough to compete with the United States for world leadership. Britain's full integration would be necessary for Europe to function as such a superstate. For one thing, London has the only world-class financial-services sector in Europe. For another, although France spends as much as Britain on its army, only Britain's military has the experience to fight at an American level. At the same time, American influence in Europe greatly depends on Britain's not disappearing into a generic ''European'' identity. A baseline pro-Americanism is certainly the norm in UKIP. Kilroy-Silk, however strident his patriotism, regrets not having gone to graduate school at Harvard, admitting, ''I might never have come back.''
 British Euroskepticism is also particularly intense. Many Britons claim -- not without ample evidence -- that their thousand-year-old constitutional tradition has a better track record of guarding liberties than the Continental traditions that provided most of the basis for the European Union. The unease that results when local eccentricities are flattened out by globalization is present in all countries, but Britain is a place with more eccentricities than most. The European Union can be a convenient scapegoat for the end of a world of cooked breakfasts, drafty houses, nondecimal currency and afternoon tea and its disorienting replacement by a world of gay rights, immigration, espresso and laws against smoking. There is a strong mood of longing for the past among Britons. And unlike most continental powers, Britain has no shameful World War II past, the specter of which pro-Europeans can wave in front of voters elsewhere as a tried-and-true means of checking patriotic nostalgia.
 Euroskepticism runs across the British political spectrum. Its two leading champions over the past half-century were arguably the late Enoch Powell on the right of the Tory Party and Tony Benn on the left of Labor. (Kilroy-Silk has some admiration for Benn, but he was embarrassed by the way even his Labor colleagues deferred before Powell's erudition and high-flown oratory.) In recent years, Euroskepticism has been stronger on the right, and has threatened to break up any Conservative electoral coalition that tries to hold a middle-of-the-road position on the European Union. So Tories were in a panic when they gathered for their party conference at Bournemouth in early October. What the Tories saw in UKIP was a Nader effect writ large. The winnability of dozens of Tory seats in coming British national elections -- including that of Oliver Letwin, the shadow chancellor of the exchequer and a Tory rising star -- now appeared to depend on whether a UKIP Euroskeptic ran and siphoned off Tory votes.
 David Davis, the shadow home secretary and Tory-party-leader-in-waiting, set at 50 the number of seats the Tories could lose as a result of UKIP's diluting the conservative vote. The American-style conservative John Redwood, brought into the party leadership to revivify the Euroskeptic current, urged stealing UKIP's clothes. So did the party's co-chairman Liam Fox, whose remarks at a private party meeting had been secretly taped and published in The Times of London. ''The No. 1 issue to get UKIP voters back to the Conservatives is immigration and asylum,'' Fox reportedly said. When they used the term Europe, ''what they meant was foreigners, a lot of them, to be frank. It is acceptable to say, 'I am anti-Europe.' It is not acceptable to say, 'I am anti-immigrant.'''
 Many top Tories, however, took solace in the hope that UKIP's Euroskeptic politicians, even if they were sitting on a gold mine of potential votes, would have no clue what to do with it.

IV. Who Dares, Wins
It was obvious even before June's European Parliament election that many of the people flooding into UKIP belonged to Kilroy-Silk more than they belonged to the party. Naturally, they would wish to see him take over as party leader from Roger Knapman, who was elected to the post in 2002. Knapman is a canny political operator. He was a Tory M.P. for a decade until being swept away in the Blair landslide of 1997. He is well liked among the party's old guard and works closely with Nigel Farage, the party's European parliamentary leader. The elfin Farage, 40, fond of smoking, drinking and talking about smoking and drinking, is indeed a compelling orator. His spiel doesn't vary much -- in fact, you're apt to hear him say verbatim from a dais the same thing he said at a cocktail party the night before -- but it is a good spiel. His speeches give a distilled version of UKIP's program: an ''amicable divorce from the European Union and its replacement with a free-trade agreement, which is what we thought we voted for in the first place.''
 Kilroy-Silk had something considerably grander than this in mind, a new and potent British party, and until October his takeover of UKIP looked inevitable. The reason was not just his magnetism. It was money. Paul Sykes, a 61-year-old high-school dropout from Yorkshire, had turned a scrap-metal exporting company into a $1 billion real-estate fortune. This gave him a lot of free time, which he devoted increasingly to Euroskeptic activities. Sykes financed the anti-European Democracy Movement in the 90's. Since then he has pursued his political interests by financing candidates -- spending $10 million over the past decade, according to some estimates. Kilroy-Silk claimed that Sykes would put up either $40 million or $60 million -- in either case, dozens of times what UKIP had to spend during the summer's campaign -- to contest the general election in 2005, provided he (Kilroy-Silk) was at the helm.
 Such was the state of play on the Saturday of the Bristol conference, when a partywide debate was scheduled to iron out a central philosophical question: Should UKIP husband its resources to topple only those British parliamentary candidates who promote European integration? Or should it contest all seats, with a view to becoming a ''regular'' political party, even at the risk of splitting the anti-Europe vote? Knapman had pronounced himself eager to hear the party's views on the matter.
 But Kilroy-Silk wasn't interested in chitchat. He was interested in sweeping the party off its feet. Early Saturday afternoon, he stood before 900 people under a white spotlight in a pitch-black theater and gave a dazzling performance. He began with a flourish of flattery (''It was an amazing thing you did on June the 10th''), and then worked through a repertory of effects. He deployed reams of statistics, and he eventually worked the crowd into a feeling of victimhood. (''They call you and I xenophobes just because we want to govern ourselves.'') Toward the end, people were beginning to shout ''Thank you! Thank you!'' Then Kilroy-Silk turned to substance. The idea of making common cause with the Tories over Europe, he said, was preposterous. ''The Conservative Party is dying,'' he said. ''Why would you want to give it the kiss of life? What we have to do is kill it.''
 Maybe Kilroy-Silk should have waited for the afternoon debate, as Knapman had wanted. Because threatening the Tory Party in this way did threaten to divide the Euroskeptic vote. That bothered Sykes. He announced that he would not finance UKIP for the British national elections.
 It appeared that the steam had gone out of Kilroy-Silk's leadership challenge before it had begun. Weeks later, his candidacy was rejected in a leadership-sponsored poll of UKIP's local committee chairmen. But by now Kilroy-Silk was willing to destroy the party to save it. He called the poll ''amateurishly rigged'' and began to denounce the leadership as incompetent and corrupt. In late October, hours before a meeting in which it was rumored that Farage would move for his ouster, Kilroy-Silk resigned from the party parliamentary grouping. He announced that he would remain a UKIP member, however, and that he planned to take over the party by taking his case to UKIP's rank-and-file voters. As Knapman said of his rival, ''He's a death-or-glory man.''
 Knapman often compares UKIP with the Scottish National Party or its Welsh equivalent, the Plaid Cymru. He and his allies hope that the party will grow over the decades from a small marginal party into a small party with some influence -- that if they just sit perfectly still and declare their Britishness with sincerity, an electorate will grow on them like moss.
 Kilroy-Silk says he believes in something more radical. It may be that having read his Lenin and Gramsci and Sorel in college, he has a distinctly 20th-century idea of how parties come to power. He says that movements like UKIP, while not ''fads'' exactly, have only a brief window of time in which to seize the advantage. He constantly harps on this theme in his speeches (''The opportunity is here today,'' he said in Bristol), and even sitting around his living room in Buckinghamshire, he said: ''What people don't understand is there's a lot of smoke and mirrors here. We've got an influence all out of proportion to our size, and we have to seize the moment.''
 For now, Kilroy-Silk is in an ambiguous position. He is a candidate for leadership of the party but not on speaking terms with its leaders. ''In a way I'm set free,'' he told me. ''I don't have to defend the deputy leader talking about fighting our way out, like Chechnya a few days after Beslan. I will be an independent person, untrammeled.'' Like most in UKIP, he preferred Bush to Kerry in the last election. But he has strong views in favor of gay rights and abortion that few of his colleagues share, and he insists, ''My view on none of these issues will be altered by what the party says.'' It will be his way or the highway. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Mark Todd)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (78%); MAMMALS (77%); RELIGION (56%) Biographical Information; Politics and Government; Legislatures and Parliaments

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%) European Union

PERSON: BORIS JOHNSON (50%) Christopher Caldwell; Robert Kilroy-Silk

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (88%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (72%) ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (72%) UNITED KINGDOM (99%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); ENGLAND (88%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (72%); LEBANON (56%) Great Britain; Europe; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



165 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1354 words

HEADLINE: A Return To Normal (If There Is A Normal)

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM

 BODY:
SO this is what normal feels like.
 Last year, for the first time in more than a decade, stock mutual funds posted gains that were in line with the historical rate of return for equities. 
 Thanks in large part to a fourth-quarter rally that was mostly a post-election run-up, the average general domestic stock fund returned 11.9 percent in 2004, according to Morningstar Inc. That compares with the 10.4 percent that stocks have gained annually, on average, dating back to 1926.
 ''The markets are beginning to normalize,'' said Philip Edwards, managing director of investment services at Standard & Poor's. ''Some of the volatility is beginning to bleed out.'' 
 Among all stock funds that invest in domestic equities, including specialized funds, the average gain was 12.7 percent, fueled by a surge of 10.6 percent in the fourth quarter. 
 The 2004 returns, though average, were viewed by many people as a major victory for the markets, which had to trudge through a battlefield of uncertainties during much of the year. Those uncertainties included the war in Iraq, the presidential election, rising interest rates, high oil prices and slowing corporate earnings growth.
 Moreover, the year-end rally for stocks was a welcome turnaround from the third quarter, when domestic equity funds lost slightly more than 2 percent, and from the second quarter, when the stock market was largely flat. 
 For a generation of fund investors who came of age in the 1990's, last year was a change from volatile years of feast or famine. 
 In 2003, for example, the Standard &Poor's 500-stock index broke out of the bear's grasp and rallied by an impressive 28.7 percent. That was preceded by three years of significant losses during the bear market, which came after five years of gains of more than 20 percent each in the mid- to late 1990's. An investor would have to go back to 1993 to find another year when domestic stock funds delivered either low double-digit or high single-digit gains.
 ''This is the first year I can recall where the strategists actually got it right,'' said Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank in Chicago. 
 For investors who fled equities during the bear market years, 2004 demonstrated the hazards of keeping all of one's money on the sidelines. Last year marked the second consecutive year of gains for stocks and stock funds. And the fourth quarter showed the high cost of being out of the market even for a few months.
 International stock funds had particularly strong performances. Thanks in part to the continuing decline of the dollar, Americans who invested abroad were able to generate sizable returns both in the fourth quarter and in 2004 as a whole. The average international equity fund was up 13.7 percent in the quarter, raising its 2004 gains to 18.3 percent. 
 Funds that focus on stocks in emerging markets did even better. For the year, diversified emerging-markets equity funds were up 25.2 percent, on average, while those that specialize in Latin American stocks gained 40.1 percent. Latin American funds were the best-performing category of funds tracked by Morningstar, both for the quarter and the year.
 Despite the run-up in these shares, market strategists continue to favor emerging markets for 2005. In fact, nearly a quarter of global fund managers surveyed recently by Merrill Lynch think that emerging markets will be the year's best-performing asset class. By comparison, only 14 percent say they think that United States equities will prove to be best.
 ''The only equities we can recommend buying with any enthusiasm are non-U.S. equities,'' said Ben Inker, director of asset allocation for the investment management firm GMO, based in Boston. He said international stocks were still cheaper than domestic stocks based on their price-to-earnings ratios. And within international stocks, emerging-markets shares look cheaper than those of the developed markets.
 Susan M. Byrne, chairman and chief executive of Westwood Management, a registered investment adviser based in Dallas, said risk-averse investors who believed that the emerging markets would continue to shine but were fearful of these risky investments might want to put money instead into blue-chip domestic companies that stood to benefit from the development of the emerging markets. 
 The emerging markets weren't the only surprise of 2004. Heading into the year, many strategists were predicting relatively modest returns for real estate funds, because long-term interest rates were expected to rise. 
 But continuing concerns about the state of the job market in the United States and relatively benign inflation data kept yields on the 10-year Treasury securities low. That, in turn, kept mortgage rates from rising much, which helped sustain another strong year for real estate funds. According to Morningstar, the average fund that invests in real estate-oriented equities rose 15.7 percent in the fourth quarter, raising its 2004 total returns to 32 percent.
 The decline in yields on 10-year Treasuries -- to 4.22 percent at the end of the year from 4.27 percent at the start -- came as a shock to many market strategists, especially because the Federal Reserve Board raised short-term rates five times in 2004.
 Because long rates did not move in sync, government bond funds posted another strong year. The average long-term government bond fund, for example, rose 2 percent in the fourth quarter and 7.8 percent for the year.
 Conventional wisdom says the Fed will continue to raise rates throughout much of 2005. And for the second year in a row, economists are predicting that long-term rates will also rise. ''I think the big headline in 2005 will be that bond yields finally move higher,'' said Stuart Schweitzer, global investment strategist at J.P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management. 
 If that happens, investors could see another shift in the markets. The era of small-company stock funds outperforming other categories may finally come to an end, market strategists say. 
 Historically, small-capitalization stocks tend to outperform in the very early stages of a recovery, but typically take a back seat to shares of large, blue-chip companies once economic recoveries mature. So far, this transition from small to large has not materialized, in part because earnings for small companies are expected to grow faster than those of the blue chips. 
 But one reason for small-cap outperformance may be the cheap financing that low interest rates have offered to young companies. If rates rise significantly, a big source of that cheap capital may dry up.
 ALTHOUGH stocks have now risen for two consecutive years, some analysts wonder whether a third positive year is possible.
 Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist for S.&P., studied bull markets dating back to 1942 and found that stocks explode in the first year of such periods, surging 38 percent, on average. Then, in second years, stocks tend to perform modestly, rising 12 percent, on average. In the third year of rallies, however, the average gain was only 3 percent.
 Investors are taking a somewhat sober outlook for 2005 because the years immediately after presidential elections tend to be the worst for stocks, based on four-year cycles. Ned Davis Research studied the performance of the S.&P. 500 from 1888 to 2003 and found that in the year just after presidential elections, the S.&P. 500 has advanced only 2.9 percent, on average, versus a gain of 11.2 percent in the pre-election year and 8.4 percent in the election year itself. (In midterm election years, the index rose 3.3 percent, on average.) 
 ''Our feeling here is, everything is going to be modest'' in 2005, said Vincent Gallagher, portfolio manager at the Needham funds. ''By that I mean, modest increases in interest rates, a modest increase in employment, and modest G.D.P. growth.'' 
 Combine that with question marks surrounding oil prices, China's economy and Iraq's political situation, and there is still much uncertainty in the markets.
 ''Things look like they could be good or O.K.,'' Mr. Stovall said. ''But what's the reason they could be great?''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustration by Tim Robinson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); BONDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); IRAQ WAR (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (80%); MORNINGSTAR INC (72%)

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (80%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (80%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (80%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (72%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%)

PERSON: Paul J Lim

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



166 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1954 words

HEADLINE: Two Tracks Converge

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
AN unusual convergence of events may be opening a way for a top-to-bottom refashioning of public transportation on the East End, where traffic snarls and Hamptons summer gridlock have brought cries for years for something to be done, but where local opposition to new or wider roads remains fierce.
 The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, already increasing fares and reducing service for the new year to close budget deficits, wants to raise an additional $1 billion by selling or leasing properties including parking lots, train yards and stations.
 On the East End, some elected officials and groups want to explore creating an East End transportation authority that would buy or lease the Long Island Rail Road tracks that run along the North and South Forks, transforming them into the arteries of a new light rail and shuttle bus transit system. 
 Some of the basic ingredients for a future deal seem to be there. But the five towns and nine villages that make up the East End would need to agree first on a common course of action, and the authority, which owns the L.I.R.R., would need to be persuaded that are financial advantages to ceding control of the railroad's eastern extremities. 
 Even the most optimistic of East End transportation advocates agreed that making all that happen would take some doing, but several of them indicated that they were poised to give it a try. 
 ''The M.T.A. certainly isn't winning any awards for how they are running the system out here,'' said Hank de Cillia of Bridgehampton, a spokesman for a private advocacy group called the Five Town Rural Transit Committee. ''One of our arguments to them would be that we are an insignificant, tiny little part of their empire, and we think we could run it better.''
 (Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, also has designs on parts of the L.I.R.R. track system, having proposed a mass transit light rail loop for the Hub area in central Nassau that would incorporate the railroad's Oyster Bay and West Hempstead lines. But the plan is tentative and financing is nowhere near being secured.)
 Tom Kelly, an M.T.A. spokesman, said he had not even heard of the proposed East End authority and could not comment on whether the M.T.A. would consider lease or sale of East End tracks. ''This is not something we have explored,'' he said. ''I won't say its premature, I just don't know the legality of it. It might not be feasible.'' The Long Island Rail Road public affairs office, informed of the proposal, did not offer any comment.
 But legislation to create an East End transit authority has already been introduced in Albany. Assemblyman Fred W. Thiele, Jr., a Republican from Sag Harbor, wrote a bill last year to create what would be called the Peconic Bay Regional Transportation Authority. It would cover the towns of Southampton, East Hampton, Shelter Island, Riverhead and Southold, and the nine villages within them.
 The bill did not come to a vote, but Mr. Thiele said he would reintroduce it this month. He said he believed that East End officials supported the plan, but added that he had not discussed the proposal with M.T.A. or Long Island Rail Road officials.
 ''We have certainly talked to the M.T.A. about the type of service they provide now, and quite frankly it has been their lack of responsiveness that has resulted in this,'' he said.
 Mr. de Cillia's group visualizes one-, two- or three-car self-powered trains running half-hourly on North and South Fork routes, supported by shuttle buses waiting at the stations to carry riders to or near their final destinations. This, Mr. de Cillia said, would be a better way to run a railroad in an area with 29 percent of Long Island's area but less than 5 percent of its year-round residents.
 Currently the L.I.R.R. serves the North Fork with two eastbound and three westbound trains weekdays and two round trips on weekends connecting Greenport and Pennsylvania Station. There is also one round trip connecting Riverhead and Pennsylvania Station on weekdays. On the South Fork, the railroad runs five westbound and six eastbound trains on weekdays except on Friday, when there is a seventh eastbound train. On weekends there are five eastbound and four westbound trains.
 The East End plan also envisions small-scale, primarily seasonal ferry and water taxi service with bus and rail links. Routes might include service between Orient Point and hamlets on the North and South Forks. The Cross Sound Ferry Company carries passengers and vehicles between Orient Point and New London, Conn. 
 The group contends that its proposal would avert further surrender to cars and roads while serving residents, visitors and second homeowners. Its advocates say it would accommodate freight trains in off-hours, connect seamlessly with the Long Island Rail Road and carry tradespeople to reduce the daily ''trade parade'' that East End residents blame for congesting roads, particularly on the South Fork. The group said tradespeople could initially drive their vehicles to secure parking locations near job sites and then travel to and from the locations by rail. They point out that many commuters to the East End work in restaurants, schools and area hospitals and had no need to travel with tools and heavy equipment.
 Mr. de Cillia, a business consultant, said the group had been concerned more with what had to be than on how to do it, but recognized that creation of the new transportation authority might be necessary.
 Southampton voted on Dec. 17 to make exploring an authority a part of the town's master plan. ''This is really where our focus is,'' said Steve Kenny, a Southampton councilman. ''What we would really like to see now is the M.T.A. coming to the table.''
 Mr. Thiele said a bill that created a new authority for the explicit purpose of immediately replacing the M.T.A. on the East End would have slim chance of passage. ''That's probably an uphill battle,'' he said. 
 But he said chances were far better for establishing a new authority that would work cooperatively with the M.T.A. He said the new authority could be financed by what he said was a fair share of fares and money the East End paid in sales taxes, mortgage taxes and a number of other taxes to the M.T.A.
 ''From the research we've done so far it appears that when it comes to the M.T.A. the East End is definitely a creditor nation,'' he said. ''If we had our fair share, we believe a train and shuttle bus service could be covered.''
 Mr. de Cillia's group estimated that East End residents, second homeowners and visitors accounted for $40 million in revenues routed to existing rail and bus service. The group said the amount far exceeded what the East End got back in services, but made no estimate of the difference.
 A state-created authority would have the power to sell tax-exempt bonds to finance its operations and buy M.T.A. assets and new equipment. But backers of the new authority said large-scale borrowing was not part of their plan.
 Instead, they spoke of securing federal financing for new light rail cars and exploring the possibility of leasing tracks. Mr. de Cillia said the M.T.A. might even agree to cede the tracks to the new authority.
 Mr. Thiele said the M.T.A.'s announced interest in selling or leasing assets might be a sign the time was right for significant changes. ''We may be underestimating this thing,'' he said. ''Maybe the M.T.A. would be glad to let someone else take over.''
 Whether towns and villages could reach agreement would be another matter. Some are currently at odds over transportation issues. 
 Southold is suing East Hampton in federal court in an effort to knock down East Hampton ordinances that ban car-and-driver ferries and limit passenger ferries. Southold and Shelter Island, which has joined in the action, contend that they are being victimized by traffic to and from the Cross Sound Ferry terminal in Orient and points on the South Fork. 
 Joshua Y. Horton, the Southold supervisor, said it was unfair for East Hampton to bar ferries that could relieve traffic problems on the North Fork and Shelter Island. ''That is the transportation issue that needs to be addressed,'' he said.
 East Hampton, meanwhile, would be the terminus of a new limited-access highway built along the Long Island Rail Road tracks that is proposed for further study in the transportation plan the Southampton town board added to the town's master plan on Dec. 17.
 The road, which Southampton officials concede would be unlikely to be built, would begin at the eastern end of County Road 39 in Southampton and end at the East Hampton town line near the East Hampton Airport.
 William McGintee, the East Hampton town supervisor, said Southampton officials had given assurances that no road along the railroad would be built without his town's consent. ''Any plan for that is not worth the paper it's written on without East Hampton agreeing,'' he said. 
 Mr. McGintee said he was more favorably disposed toward an East End transportation authority. ''It is an interesting concept,'' he said. 
 But North Fork officials had questions. ''I am certainly not a naysayer in regard to enhanced transportation,'' Mr. Horton said. ''But I am not sure a new authority with brand-new bonding authority is the answer to that. There are agencies already in place, and we should be fighting to have better representation and service from those agencies.'' 
 The Greenport mayor, David Kapell, said he had heard what he described as ''loose talk'' about an authority. ''I don't place much credence in that,'' he said. ''Whether or not an authority is a viable alternative is a very complicated issue.''
 ''In my opinion, smaller units of government do not operate efficiently from an economy standpoint,'' Mr. Kapell said. ''It's hard for me to understand how you could create a smaller authority that people could afford to pay for. The problem is one of economics.''
 The five towns and nine villages are part of a $500,000 federally financed initiative to find a regional consensus on transportation and land use. If a consensus were reached, it would target county, state and federal financing for transportation.
 The New York Metropolitan Transportation Council began the initative, known as the Sustainable East End Development Strategies, or Seeds, program, in 2001. Other participants include the M.T.A., the Long Island Rail Road and state and Suffolk County transportation agencies. 
 Gerry Bogacz, a planning group director in Manhattan for the council, said the initiative would not weigh directly on the question of whether a new transportation authority was warranted. ''Seeds is trying to build a consensus on what needs to be done,'' he said. ''Once that consensus is reached, it's a question of how do you implement that consensus.''
 Some local officials said the initiative had taken so long they doubted it would yield useful results. But a wealth of statistical information compiled by Seeds about a range of transportation options will be available soon.
 Patricia Thiele of Sag Harbor, the Seeds coordinator, said data from computer modeling of transportation alternatives would be released in April. Ms. Thiele, who is not related to Assemblyman Thiele, said alternatives studied included road widenings, new roads, increased rail and ferry service and different types of services. 
 Mr. de Cillia, who took part in the initiative, said he had reviewed some of the results. ''I have seen enough to know that if you make more investment in transit you are going to get more riders,'' he said.
 Mr. Bogacz said the results could help lead to an inter-municipal agreement in 2006. ''The data will hopefully tell a story that people will be able to read,'' he said. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: A REFASHIONING of East End transportation could occur if the Metropolitan Transportation Authority sells or leases tracks to a proposed East End transportation authority. Here, the view east from Navy Road in Montauk. (Photo by Doug Kuntz for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
This track in Southampton could possibly be leased or bought by a proposed East End transporation agency. (Photo by Doug Kuntz for The New York Times)(pg. 9)
 Assemblyman Fred W. Thiele Jr. (Photo by Doug Kuntz)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (73%); COUNTIES (72%); BUDGETS (71%); LEGISLATION (61%); BUDGET DEFICITS (56%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (55%) Railroads; Renting and Leasing; Transit Systems; Buses; Railroads

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority; Long Island Rail Road Co

PERSON: John Rather

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



167 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN/Clinton Hill, Brooklyn; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1461 words

HEADLINE: Into the Big Leagues, With Prices to Match

BYLINE: By SUZANNE HAMLIN

 BODY:
SANDWICHED between Fort Greene and Bedford-Stuyvesant, Clinton Hill in Brooklyn might just be the quintessence of urban living in New York City. It is affluent and not so, seedy and grand, ethnically diverse, a magnet for artists, musicians and filmmakers, and so rich in architectural style that even now, with escalating property prices, a new group of buyers is prowling its landmarked blocks in hopes of finding an overlooked gem.
 ''Like the rest of brownstone Brooklyn, we've had a huge surge of buyers this past year, particularly from Manhattan,'' said Merele Williams-Adkins, a broker with the Corcoran Group who lives in Clinton Hill with her husband, Terry Adkins, a sculptor and a professor in the graduate school of design at the University of Pennsylvania, and their two children. 
 One-time Manhattan residents, the Adkins moved to Clinton Hill in 1995 from the East Village, and bought a Classic Six co-op for $155,000. They sold it in 2001 for $577,000, and bought, for $610,000, a 4,000-square-foot brownstone on Grand Avenue, a property that is probably worth well over $1 million today. 
 However, based on Corcoran's just-released year-end report, ''well over a million'' might be a low-ball figure for a substantial property in this part of Brooklyn. According to the report, the rise in the combined prices for condos, co-ops and town houses, from 2003 to 2004, in Fort Greene and Clinton Hill averaged 35 percent. For town houses alone, the increase was 59 percent.
 Once considered ''secondary neighborhoods,'' Fort Greene and Clinton Hill have traditionally been the fallback choice for buyers shut out by prices in Brooklyn Heights, Cobble Hill and Park Slope (and, more recently, Carroll Gardens and Boerum Hill). And while they may be lumped together by brokers, the neighborhoods can no longer be considered the housing equivalent of a brand-name warehouse sale. 
 Roslyn Huebener, the co-owner of Aguayo & Huebener, a Brooklyn real estate firm, just closed on her ''retirement house,'' which cost $2.15 million and faces Fort Greene Park. 
 ''But then in 1985, people thought I was crazy when I bought five houses in Clinton Hill for $225,000 each,'' she said.
 Both neighborhoods can claim proximity to the Brooklyn Academy of Music and Fort Greene Park, which was designed by Frederick Law Olmsted and is midway through a restoration. But Clinton Hill is farther away from the commercial streets of downtown Brooklyn, making it, to many of its residents, the better choice. It is also farther removed from mass-transit hubs, although street parking, fiercely contested in Fort Greene, is somewhat easier in Clinton Hill.
 Centered on the five square blocks of Pratt Institute, the venerable art and design school founded by Charles Pratt in 1887, Clinton Hill today seems very much like the thoughtfully planned community it was intended to be when it was conceived almost 170 years ago. 
 Originally a large parcel of land owned by the Dutch, Clinton Hill became a neighborhood in the 1800's, a rural retreat for some of New York's most prominent industrialists, who built their imposing mansions along Washington and Clinton Avenues. In 1875, Charles Pratt, an oil executive and philanthropist, built a mansion on Clinton Avenue, followed by one for each of his four sons as they married. Subsequent neighbors included the Bristols (of the Bristol-Myers company) and the Underwoods (of typewriter fame). 
 These grand properties, looking today much as they did then, rarely change hands, although one of the grandest, the 12,000-square-foot mansion built by the Pfizer family at 280 Washington Avenue, is expected to come onto the market in early February, priced at $3,595,000, according to Paula Hollins, the listing broker at Corcoran. 
 Row houses followed on the surrounding streets, built in an eccentric smorgasbord of styles, something for every fantasy and taste. Along with Victorian brownstones and limestones, there are block after block of Italianate town houses, imposing Romanesque properties, graceful antebellum frame houses and possibly the greatest collection of carriage houses in the city. 
 Apartment houses were built beginning in the early 1900's through the 1940's, many to house families connected to the nearby Brooklyn Navy Yard. In 1954, Robert Moses razed a five-block area for urban renewal, and in the 1950's and 1960's, many one-family houses became rooming houses. 
 By 1979, when Naida McSherry bought a ''darling house on St. James Place for $43,000,'' Clinton Hill was considered well off the map.
 ''Almost every house was still full of original details but neglected,'' she said. ''Not because the owners didn't care, but because they didn't have the money to fix them up.''
 Once a home furnishings designer who moved from Greenwich Village to Brooklyn seeking space, Ms. McSherry became so enamored of Clinton Hill that she became a real estate broker, retiring last year after 25 years in the business.
 Ms. McSherry said the one thing she tried not to do as a broker was sell to investors. 
 ''I wanted people who bought here to live here,'' she said, ''and to get involved in the neighborhood.'' 
 Clinton Hill does not have a huge supply of housing on the market. Rentals, in two- and three-family houses, are filled almost immediately by Pratt students and faculty members. 
 In the last year, condos, co-ops and houses in the $900,000 to $1.5 million range have sold, often with full-price offers or above, within a couple of days of coming on the market. 
 In the early part of the 20th century, Italian-American families made up the largest part of Clinton Hill's population, which has expanded today into a polyglot community that includes Caribbean immigrants, blacks and Hispanics. 
 Hundreds of often vibrantly plumed Pratt students are also highly visible members of the community, as are artists, designers, architects, writers and photographers drawn by the physical beauty, quirkiness, rough edges and energy in the neighborhood, and the quality most residents cite as Clinton Hill's most precious -- its diversity.
 There is no problem with where to hang out in Clinton Hill anymore. Both Fulton Street and the once-seedy Myrtle Avenue are filling up fast with take-out places, casual restaurants and shops. In the middle of it all is the Pratt Institute, which in the last decade under its president, Thomas F. Schutte, has notably increased its community involvement, always a hallmark of the school. 
 Clinton Hill's weak spot has always been its underperforming elementary and high schools, and many parents send their children to private, alternative or parochial schools.
 St. Joseph's College, headquartered on Clinton Avenue, houses the Dillon Child Study Center, which has highly sought-after preschool and kindergarten programs. And Public School 11, because of increased involvement by parents, is coming on strong. 
 ''It is thrilling to watch,'' Ms. McSherry said. ''It used to be that young people would move here, but then they would have children, and as soon as they were old enough for grade school, they'd pack up and leave.'' 
 Local preservationists are keeping an eye on other changes. 
 ''All we fear now is the developers,'' said Sharon Barnes, a resident of Clinton Hill since 1986. She is co-chairwoman of the Landmarks Preservation Committee of the Society for Clinton Hill, a community group that monitors major condo conversions and new high-rises, many of which, she says, seem to go up overnight, in spite of opposition. 
 Not all of Clinton Hill is landmarked. Some blocks, identified by their brown street signs, are protected from high-rise development, while others, not yet designated, are open to change. Besides changing the landscape, many in the community feel that real estate prices will drive out many less-affluent residents. 
 ''Clinton Hill has been one of the few communities in New York City to maintain its level of racial and economic diversity,'' said Ron Schiffman, a professor at the graduate center for planning and the environment at Pratt. For 42 years an expert on community development, Professor Schiffman was instrumental, with Robert F. Kennedy, in forming the Bedford-Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation, still considered a model for community development. 
 ''Watchdogs are needed, though,'' he said. ''What is Clinton Hill's greatest strength, its diversity, may now be its most vulnerable aspect.''

Gazetteer

POPULATION: 24,364
AREA: 0.56 Square Miles
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $40,735.99
MEDIAN PRICE OF A TOWN HOUSE: $1,060,000
MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $668,000
MEDIAN PRICE OF A CO-OP: $310,000
MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $229,000
MEDIAN PRICE OF A CONDOMINIUM: $502,000
MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $431,000
DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN: Five miles
ZIP CODE: 11238


GRAPHIC: Photos: A view of Washington Avenue, between Lafayette and Greene Avenues, in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn, which is home to some of the most richly diverse architecture in New York City. (Photograph above and top On the Market photograph by Phil Mansfield for The New York Times
bottom two On the Market photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)
On the Market CLIFTON PLACE -- This town house, at No. 18, has two bedrooms and two baths, and a ground-floor rental unit, and is listed at $1,385,000. (718)210-4010.
CLIFTON PLACE -- The town house, at No. 143, has four bedrooms and two baths, and a separate rental unit, and is listed at $1,250,000. (718)832-4154.
 CLINTON AVENUE -- This prewar co-op, at No. 149, on the first floor of a walk-up, has one bedroom and one bathroom and is listed at $279,000. (718)210-4015.Map of Brooklyn highlighting Clinton Hill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); SCULPTURE (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ANNUAL REPORTS (75%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (73%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); MUSIC (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (62%) Geographic Profiles

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (55%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%)

PERSON: Suzanne Hamlin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City; Clinton Hill (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



168 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; COMMUNITIES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: In Maplewood, A Smudge on the Jewel

BYLINE: By TERRY GOLWAY

DATELINE: MAPLEWOOD 

 BODY:
WHEN residents of this picture-postcard community of 23,000 want to show off their town to visiting relatives and friends, they invariably take them to a quarter-mile strip of Maplewood Avenue known to the locals as ''the village.''
 Lined on both sides with quaintly decorated storefronts, downtown Maplewood looks less like a small corner of suburban New Jersey than it does a small town in rural Ireland. (The authentic Guinness sign outside a local pub certainly adds to the effect.) The main road through the village peters out, exhausted by all this charm and atmosphere, just beyond the several-block-long commercial strip. Tucked away from interstates and county roads, downtown Maplewood has no traffic lights, and pedestrians stroll leisurely across its two-lane main street at any hour of the day. 
 Residents and township officials agree that downtown Maplewood is one of the community's chief selling points. ''Maplewood village is a jewel, one of the greatest single attracting forces for people who want to live in a convenient suburb,'' Mayor Fred Profeta says.
 But the recent closing of one of Maplewood's landmarks, a pharmacy turned gift shop, and its imminent replacement by the village's third nail salon has underscored the concerns of a growing number of residents about their jewel's sparkle. 
 ''I've had people ask why we can't ban certain kinds of businesses,'' said Virginia Falconer, manager of the Downtown Alliance, a local civic and business group. ''Of course, we can't do that.''
 Coincidentally, a study of Maplewood's economic future -- commissioned by the town council and released in mid-December -- discovered a smudge or two on the downtown jewelry. While the study concentrated mainly on the revitalization of Springfield Avenue, a heavily trafficked road leading from Newark to Springfield, it found that for the downtown village, ''an influx of personal service operations'' had replaced traditional retail stores.
 For many Maplewood residents, preservation of downtown's look, ambience and mix is no less important than its relatively highly regarded public schools and well-kept parks. The addition of yet another nail salon just steps from two competitors was greeted by some like the screech of well-painted nails on a blackboard.
 ''There is a legitimate concern about the balance between retail and service enterprises in the village, and with the addition of another nail salon, we are tilting further toward service,'' Mayor Profeta said. ''You don't want to get out of balance.''
 But in recent years, some of those charming shops -- an old-fashioned five and dime, a cheese store, a bookstore, two pharmacies (one of which doubled as a hardware store) and a men's clothing store -- have closed. In their place, for the most part, are real estate offices, restaurants and the nail salons.
 ''Maplewood village has its appeal, but I don't find it that useful,'' said Tom Reingold, who moved to Maplewood from Edison about 18 months ago. ''I see this as a worsening problem, because the rents are getting higher, leading to less and less usefulness of the shops in town.'' 
 The larger issue Maplewood faces is perennial, and one that confronts New Jersey towns well beyond this one in Essex County: How does an older suburban community maintain its embracing downtown atmosphere in the face of competition from shopping malls, chain stores and Internet retailers? 
 Indeed, downtown Maplewood -- with no Starbucks, McDonalds, or Blockbuster Video in the village -- has a distinct look.. Residents get their coffee, hamburgers and videos -- not to mention antique furniture, children's shoes, toys, women's clothing, haircuts, salmon steaks, eyeglasses, wine, household items and jewelry -- from independent shopkeepers. 
 If the modern American streetscape is defined by the bright lights of brand names, then downtown Maplewood is a throwback to a quieter, black-and-white past. And it wishes to remain that way. 
 ''Maplewood village is unique because it is not a drive-through town, and it never will be,'' said Dan Kaslow, who has lived here for 20 years. ''It has always been a real village, with charm and character, and I don't see that changing.''
 It is up to people like John James, a local architect who serves as president of the Downtown Alliance, and his colleagues to recruit new businesses and makes sure that merchants, property owners and residents are content. 
 Mr. James acknowledged that his group is concerned by the departure of retail stores and their replacement by service businesses. He cited high rents, which range from $41 to $50 per square foot, and inadequate parking as obstacles to recruiting retail businesses.
 Nevertheless, the alliance successfully recruited a bookstore, now called Goldfinch Books, after the venerable Book Stop closed several years ago. And while some residents bemoaned the loss of the town's men's clothing store two years ago, a successful Irish pub and restaurant, St. James Gate, has taken the clothing store's place. 
 ''You don't hear people talking forlornly about the clothing store anymore,'' said Hank Zona, whose house is a two-minute walk from downtown Maplewood. ''You hear a lot of nostalgia for businesses that were around for a while, but were they viable businesses?''
 Mr. Zona noted that while St. James Gate is one of several restaurants that have replaced traditional stores, the result is not necessarily bad. ''My wife Maryjane grew up here, and her family says there was nobody out on the street after 5 o'clock,'' he said. ''That's not true anymore.''
 Maintaining a mix between retail and service is crucial, Mr. James said, because of the demands of residents and business owners alike. ''There seems to be a general feeling that they like the mom-and-pop feeling,'' said Mr. James. 
 Town officials have their eyes fixed on one of the village's few charm-challenged buildings, a postal facility that reeks of postwar utility. There's a movement afoot to persuade the Postal Service to move its nonretail operations to Springfield Avenue, the more commercial strip about a mile from downtown, freeing up parking and retail space.
 The possible conversion of the post office is years away, but according to Mr. James, the time to start planning is now. 
 ''We try to look at things from a five- to seven-year perspective,'' he said. ''We want to be looking forward and assessing what could be better as opposed to waiting for a major problem.''
 Not that he anticipates any such problems. ''The village isn't perfect,'' he said, ''but it's not broken, either.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In downtown Maplewood, there are no traffic lights, and pedestrians think nothing of strolling leisurely across the main two-lane street.
 The impending opening of the village's third nail salon has raised eyebrows. (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (87%); NAIL SALONS (87%); SUBURBS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (71%); HISTORIC SITES (71%); HARDWARE STORES (66%); PHARMACIES (66%); BOOKSTORES (66%); CHEESE SHOPS (66%) Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (53%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (53%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%)

PERSON: John James; Terry Golway

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Maplewood (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



169 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: Losing That Boxy Look Gives Trailer Parks a New Image

BYLINE: By ROBERT JOHNSON

 BODY:
BARBARA POTTER points proudly to some of the best features of her new home near Nashville: hardwood floors, high ceilings, a fireplace and a hot tub in the master bathroom. Even better, she managed to get all of that, and more, in 2,200 square feet bordered by a wraparound wooden deck for less than $90,000.
 Best of all, she said, is the neighborhood: ''no singlewides.''
 Mrs. Potter, a retired medical assistant, and her husband, Ed, a meat cutter, live in a mobile home park. But the Potters' home, bought in 2000, doesn't fit the stereotype of the boxy trailer that haunts this segment of the housing industry. 
 Abuse has been heaped on mobile homes and the people who live in them for years: residents have long endured characterization as ''trailer trash'' for their economic circumstances, and the prefabricated structures' vulnerability in hurricanes and tornadoes has made them a staple of storm-disaster news coverage.
 Although a lot of older mobile homes across the nation are showing their age badly, a new breed of upscale mobile homes has started making over the image of the trailer park. The Potters' home, for instance, sits in a park called Southshores that allows no singlewides, the narrow trailers of years past. Such rules have become more common in recent years as some parks try to go upscale and shake the old image of bottom-of-the-barrel housing. 
 The new era of fancier mobile homes has emerged in the wake of a sales slump. Shipments of manufactured houses -- the industry's favored term to differentiate them from recreational motor homes -- plummeted by more than 50 percent to about 170,000 in 2003 from 354,000 in 1997, according to the Freedonia Group, a consumer research firm in Cleveland. The drop was in large part caused by the low mortgage rates that have made conventional homes more affordable. As sales dropped, many mobile home makers have reassessed the market and redesigned their products.
 Companies like Holiday Homes in Milford, Ohio, are taking aim at relatively affluent baby boomers who are either newly retired, or still working but downsizing their housing space because they are empty nesters. ''This market is huge and you have to give them what they want,'' said Daniel Rolfes, the company's president. ''This niche wants to spend less on housing maintenance, and they don't need as much room, but they are demanding amenities.''
 They're driving up prices, too. Despite the drop in the number of mobile home sales since 1997, the average price is up 29 percent. That's largely attributed to the sale of larger and more luxurious products. The typical mobile home of 2005 is about 1,600 square feet, compared with 1,400 in 1997. All this raises costs, of course, and the price per square foot of a mobile home in the United States is more than $32 now, compared with $28 in 1997. But that's still far below the average $75 a square foot to build on site. 
 Another factor in the price rise is stricter construction and installation standards to make the buildings better able to withstand strong winds. But many of the extras are cosmetic, such as pitched roofs and faux brick exteriors. Even two-story mobile homes with staircases are appearing.
 ''The old box-style with a flat roof was dictated by the ability of manufacturers to move them down the production line,'' Mr. Rolfes said. ''But now we're finding some consumers won't accept that, so we're adjusting our factories.''
 Robert N. West, president of the California Manufactured Housing Institute, a trade group, said the consumer in his state has a new standard. ''They don't want the neighbors to be able to tell that their house is a factory-built,'' he said. That's important, he added, because most new mobile homes being sold in California aren't in the so-called parks with similar housing, but in neighborhoods of mostly conventional houses.
 Rick Boyd, a vice president of Clayton Homes in Maryville, Tenn., said his company's major sales potential is probably in its Oakwood Homes subsidiary, which offers manufactured houses in the $100,000 to $300,000 range. ''The customer is looking for better carpet, upgraded countertops and real oak cabinets,'' he said.
 Mrs. Potter, the retiree from Nashville, would agree. ''Our house doesn't look or feel like a mobile home in any way,'' she said. ''We have a breakfast island in the kitchen and a high archway between the den and the dining room.''
 The sea change occurring in the mobile home market has caught the attention of the billionaire investor Warren E. Buffett, whose company, Berkshire Hathaway, acquired Clayton Homes for about $1.7 billion in 2003. Clayton, in turn, bought the Oakwood Homes Corporation for $373 million. Mr. Buffett could be getting into the mobile home market at just the right time; with mortgage rates now climbing, more customers may be attracted to relatively inexpensive manufactured housing.
 Still, the industry's sales numbers aren't perking up much yet. ''We're seeing marginally better traffic at our retail centers than a year ago,'' said Chris Nicely, Clayton's vice president for marketing.
 Many manufacturers are counting on high-end customers for a rebound. Mr. Rolfes of Holiday Homes points to his high-end segment, with prices ranging from $120,000 to $300,000. In 2002, that division's first year, sales were $1 million; they rose to $5 million in 2004, and Mr. Rolfes projects $10 million in 2005. ''While those aren't huge numbers in terms of the industry, that seems to be where the growth is,'' he said.
 The forecast for recovery in overall mobile home sales, according to the Freedonia Group, will be slow and steady, rising to 190,000 units annually in 2007. Though far below the 1997 level of manufactured homes sold, Freedonia projects that sales in dollars will roughly equal the 1997 peak of $11.8 billion. 
 To get there, and beyond, though, more of the amenities trend will have to trickle down to lower-end mobile homes, said Mr. Rolfes, who is wary that any future drop in mortgage rates could send budget-minded buyers into the site-built conventional housing market again. ''Instead of just mass production, we're going to have to become mass-customizers -- finding ways to offer a more residentially acceptable home, without the stigma, to the consumer who earns $30,000 a year,'' he said.
 Owners of less-than-luxurious manufactured houses say they welcome an image upgrade for the lifestyle. Sharon Barlow, a cook who lives in a 1987 model in a mobile home park in Peoria, Ill., said she had to reassure her 18-year-old daughter about the image of their residence. ''I can deal with other people's impression of 'trailer trash,''' she said. ''It was difficult at first for my daughter. I had a long talk with her. It's not the trailer that makes the 'trash.'''


GRAPHIC: Photos: FACTORY-MADE LIVING -- Ed and Barbara Potter, far left, in their new mobile home in Antioch, Tenn., a suburb of Nashville. At left is a factory-made house that sells for $190,000
above left, one for $190,000
and above right, one for $200,000. All are from Potterhill Homes. (Photo by Christopher Berkey for The New York Times)
 (Photographs by Potterhill Homes) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAILER PARKS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MOBILE HOME MFG (75%); EMPTY NESTERS (74%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (73%); WEATHER (73%); SALES FIGURES (69%); MODULAR & MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS (68%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (67%); MARKET RESEARCH (62%); BABY BOOMERS (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (61%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Housing; Mobile Homes; Trailers; Sales

PERSON: Robert Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



170 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Audits Criticize U.N. Handling Of Oil-for-Food

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER

 BODY:
Internal United Nations audits of the so-called oil-for-food program in Iraq criticize an office, led by a former top aide to Secretary General Kofi Annan, for failing adequately to supervise and audit the companies hired to inspect the oil moving out of Iraq and goods going in under the multibillion-dollar program.
 An early sampling of 10 reports obtained by The New York Times yesterday chide the United Nations' Office for Iraq Program for permitting the program's major contractors to overcharge the United Nations and understaff posts at ports and borders where oil and goods were supposed to be monitored.
 Altogether, the auditors have prepared 58 reports, totaling about 400 pages, many of which criticize how the aid program was administered. 
 The audits were conducted during several years of the program and have now been collected by Paul A. Volcker, who heads a United Nations-appointed commission that has been investigating charges that billions of dollars were diverted from the program. Mr. Volcker's committee is forwarding copies to member nations. 
 Copies were sent late on Friday to several Congressional committees that are also investigating the program. Mr. Volcker is to make the audits public on Monday.
 Charges of fraud and abuse in program intended to keep Iraq's oil proceeds out of the hands of Saddam Hussein, so they could serve the needs of Iraq's needy, have ignited considerable anger in Washington, and even calls for Mr. Annan to resign. The audits reviewed by The Times, conducted by the United Nations' Office of Internal Oversight Services, do not contain allegations of bribery or corruption. But they do identify problems with all three of the program's main contractors hired to inspect transactions under the oil-for-food program, which was created in 1996 to ease the effect of sanctions on the Iraqi people. 
 The United Nations, however, denied allegations that the audits showed that the United Nations did not adequately monitor the program. Stephane Dujarric, a spokesman for the United Nations, said the audits showed that ''this was a highly audited and supervised program.''
 ''But these reports should not be seen as a final conclusion of how the program was run,'' he said. The oil-for-food program, he added, was a ''highly complex program, done in difficult political circumstances.'' He said Mr. Annan had not seen the audit reports yet.
 Still, the audits seem likely to increase pressure on Mr. Annan to respond to Congressional calls for greater accountability and transparency in United Nations programs. Congressional investigators who are now reading the audits say they reinforce questions about poor stewardship by the United Nations played a major role in widespread corruption in the administration of sanctions against Iraq.
 The reports cite many accounting and operational lapses within the Office of the Iraq Program, which was headed by Benon V. Sevan, one of Mr. Annan's close aides. The auditors write, for instance, that Mr. Sevan's office permitted its own employees to lose money and thousands of dollars worth of equipment in the field and allowed its contractors to overcharge the United Nations and to understaff critical inspection posts where Iraqi oil and imported humanitarian goods were supposed to be inspected.
 The reports look closely at three major contractors, Saybolt Eastern Hemisphere, Cotecna Inspection Services and Lloyds Register of Shipping.
 The supervision of Saybolt, the Dutch-based company hired to inspect oil shipments from Iraq, was so poor, the auditors found, that it was difficult to evaluate its performance. ''No procedures had been established to monitor the services of the contractor,'' states one report, dated July 3, 2002. 
 In an interview on Thursday, Mr. Volcker said that the internal audits ''don't prove anything,'' but do show how the United Nations was urged to tighten up its supervision of the program. ''There's no flaming red flags in the stuff,'' he said.
 The audits show, however, that United Nations officials repeatedly warned Mr. Sevan's office about its poor supervision of its own personnel and its major contractors. One Congressional investigator who has examined about two-thirds of the documents said it was clear that Mr. Sevan's office failed to supervise the program's inspectors. ''They did not do their job,'' he said.
 One report, dated July 21, 1999, on Lloyds Register, a British customs service that monitored sales of food and other basic goods, noted that Lloyds billed the Office for Iraq Program for 1,800 days when Lloyds agents, who were paid $770 per day, were not at their posts in Iraq as required, but traveling. The auditors instructed the Office for Iraq Program to recover $1.38 million in possible overcharges. 
 This 14-page report also complains that ''no on-site verification'' of Lloyds invoices was done ''to determine that the contractor had delivered the services as invoiced.''
 Lloyds deployed its inspectors in December 1996, but since goods contracted for in January 1997 did not arrive until March of that year, money was wasted, according to the report. ''A substantial portion of the first three months' expenditure amounting to $1.97 million could have been avoided,'' the report notes.
 Such practices, the auditor noted, raised questions about whether Lloyds contract should have been extended, as it was on several times. 
 For its part, Mr. Sevan's office is reported to have complied with many of the auditors' findings and recommendations, but challenged others. In several instances, the outcome of disputes between Mr. Sevan's office and the auditors is unclear.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); AUDITS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); CORRUPTION (88%); BRIBERY (86%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (71%); ETHICS (65%); TERRORISM (59%) Oil-for-Food Program (Un); Foreign Aid; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Bribery; Ethics

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) Saybolt Eastern Hemisphere; Cotecna Inspection Services ; Lloyds Register of Shipping; United Nations

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Judith Miller; Paul A Volcker; Kofi (Sec Gen) Annan; Benon V Sevan

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



171 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; SOAPBOX; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Honest Work, Honest Pay

BYLINE: By KELLY CONKLIN. 
Kelly Conklin is the co-owner of Foley-Waite Associates, an architectural woodworking firm in Bloomfield.

 BODY:
IT started simply.
 Twenty-six years ago my wife, Kit Schackner, and I wanted to make fine furniture. Our first shop was once a livery, an 800-square-foot hole in the wall. We renovated the second floor into living quarters, set up rudimentary machines, laid out our tools and opened for business. Survival and reality were our first callers: we soon realized we could not wear all the hats, do all the work, make a living and have a life. So we started hiring. 
 If someone had said then that I'd be staring down the $10,000-a-week payroll I face now, I'd have said they were crazy. Add health insurance, a simple I.R.A., workers' comp, liability insurance and our facility, and we chase another $5,000 a week. Most of these costs could be reduced or eliminated in the Wal-Mart mentality that dominates contemporary business culture. Maybe I should learn Chinese while demanding concessions from my vendors and my employees. The last thing I should do is support increasing the minimum wage -- but I do. 
 Today, our company produces custom cabinets and furniture and supplies specialty moldings and doors that complete the interiors of some of America's most expensive homes. Staff job descriptions range from sweeping floors and driving our van, to engineering, designing and managing projects. In between are the skilled and imaginative artisans who produce the tangible product that must stand up to intense scrutiny. Using machinery that can remove a hand just as easily as it cuts a piece of wood, we work some of the most exotic and costly materials in the world. Disaster is always one inattentive moment away. 
 Work like this doesn't come cheap. And experienced workers are so rare and valuable that when someone with a good attitude, a clean driver's license and the requisite ID to prove employability comes along, we grab that person and try to hang on to him or her.
 Fair wages enhance business growth. A reasonable minimum helps small employers attract entry-level workers. It allows workers the chance to gain job skills and move up the wage scale toward financial security. But forcing people to work for less than a living standard rigs the game. It invites resentment, anger and, ultimately, failure. Employees working enthusiastically to improve the product, streamline the process and build relationships based on predictable reliability, trust and quality are the keys to profitability and longevity. That applies if you make hamburgers or jumbo jets. 
 No one is getting rich here. That includes me. But owning a small business is more than counting up the day's receipts. Small business produces 90 percent of new jobs in this country, while engaged in the creative and rewarding interaction of people and ideas. By working to accomplish a mutual goal everyone enjoys the rewards: from the guy who sweeps the floor and drives the van, to the designer/engineer who manages our projects. 
 As long as other businesses pay a fair wage and provide basic benefits, we can compete with anyone. But we have little protection against unfair competition from illegitimate operators willing to skirt the law and exploit the desperate. In fact, the only protection we have is the floor supplied by the minimum-wage law. It is not perfect; god knows it's flouted regularly. But it does establish a widely disseminated standard that tends to raise wages, even among those who work in the shadows. Without this standard, the bottom is as low as anyone needing a meal. Allowing or encouraging bottom-feeding hurts everyone in the economic food chain.
 A fair wage doesn't only promote opportunity and ensure a level playing field. It also plants the seeds of consumption. In the New York City region (in our case, Essex County) we calculate rock bottom to be about $11 an hour for an individual, or about $22,000 a year. If that seems like a lot, try some quick math: from weekly take-home pay of $343 deduct your phone bill, commuting costs, food, rent, utilities and health insurance contribution (don't forget annual deductibles and co-pays). If you have anything left, try again -- you made a mistake. 
 That doesn't leave much for our entry-level worker to spend as a consumer. Yet, without his or her consumption, my customers (among the wealthiest in the world) will ultimately see a reduction in their return on investment, putting the crunch on me. So do us all a favor, support a reasonable minimum wage of at least $7.50 an hour. 
 While you're at it, ask your landscaper what he pays his employees -- then imagine living on it.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); JOB DESCRIPTIONS (75%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (74%); LIVING STANDARDS (74%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); DRIVERS LICENSES (65%) Labor; Small Business; Minimum Wage; Wages and Salaries

PERSON: Kelly Conklin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



172 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: SPENDING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: C'mon, Get Happy, but the Calm Will Take Some Cash

BYLINE: By JENNIFER ALSEVER

 BODY:
JUDY FORSYTH could make a payment on a luxury car for what she spends each month on stress relief. 
 Ms. Forsyth, a Silicon Valley computer consultant, forks over nearly $500 a month for spa treatments, massages, incense and yoga products. She has paid $160 for a game that uses biofeedback to help her meditate.
 ''The expense is right up there with rent,'' said Ms. Forsyth, 45, who spent $10,000 on a recent trek to India for peace and relaxation. ''In the Silicon Valley, it's crazy; the stress is unbelievable. Sometimes it's really hard to sit and meditate.'' 
 People like Ms. Forsyth who are working longer hours and carrying larger workloads are a big force driving a lucrative new market centered on relaxation. Time-pressed Americans increasingly want to buy their serenity off the shelf, and countless companies line up to sell it to them in the form of personal consultants, specialized video games, vitamins, yoga, massage, biofeedback, self-help books and hypnotism training. In 2003, Americans spent $36 billion on relaxation products, according to the Natural Marketing Institute, a consulting and research firm in Harleysville, Pa. 
 The list of possibilities is long. A $20 pen from RedEnvelope.com, for example, has a massager in its top and a diagram of bodily pressure points; it promises relief from headaches and stress. SeiFu meditation cushions are offered for $95 at Dharma.net, while circulation machines -- chairs with cushioned ankle rests and electric controls -- are $165 and intended to stimulate circulation and to relieve muscle tension. And LearningMeditation.com offers pendant jewelry that ''helps your personal energy.'' 
 While the products may benefit buyers, at least one critic questions the size of the marketplace that has emerged to meet Americans' desire for relaxation. ''No matter what kind of problem we suffer from, someone always offers a product as a solution,'' said John de Graaf, a co-author of ''Affluenza: The All-Consuming Epidemic.'' 
 ''As overworked and overstressed Americans, we suffer from time poverty,'' he said. ''In part, that results from our overconsuming and always wanting more and more.'' 
 But in an uncertain economy, many people, including Ms. Forsyth, feel increased pressure to work even more. Out of fear of losing her job, she said, she often sacrifices personal time. ''If I get laid off, it's going to be pretty hard to get a job,'' she said.
 That kind of tension has created an open market for a number of businesses. The Centerpointe Research Institute, a company in Beaverton, Ore., offers Holosync, a set of CD's for $160 with rainlike sounds and Tibetan bell tones that, when heard through headphones, promise to create new neural pathways between the right and left hemispheres of the brain, improving memory and reducing anxiety and stress. 
 People who buy the first CD package from the company then get multiple pitches by mail to buy other products. Centerpointe's founder, Bill Harris, said his company, which has 25 employees, would generate $10 million in sales in 2004. 
 Rob Deming, a technology manager in Philadelphia, bought a 10-CD set of the Holosync system for $65 on eBay. He liked it. Because he bought the CD's unused, he was able to register with Centerpointe as a new user. But he said the subsequent marketing pitches, which arrived in the mail every couple of weeks promoting books, CD's and other meditation products, annoyed him. He said the whole 12-level Holosync program was offered to him for $3,500.
 ''It's really a turnoff,'' Mr. Deming said. He said he has spent $600 over the last two years buying a variety of other, less expensive meditation CD's. ''You can walk into a local Barnes & Noble and find a whole selection of CD's,'' he said. ''It is out there and readily available for $15, not $3,500.''
 Mr. Harris, Centerpointe's founder, said the additional marketing was just part of business. ''If we send something you want, you buy it. If you don't want it, throw it away.'' 
 Mr. Harris said Centerpointe provided new customers with 10 follow-up support letters, a copy of his book and a free set of six CD's with recordings of talks he has given. ''It's a lot of extra stuff we send them,'' he said.
 ANOTHER company, Wild Divine, in Eldorado Springs, Colo., developed a video game, ''The Journey to Wild Divine,'' to teach breathing exercises and meditation. Priced at $160, it comes with three clip-on finger monitors that plug into a computer and measure heart rate and perspiration level. 
 Players rarely use the keyboard but instead rely on controlling their breathing to travel through various scenarios in the two-hour game. Players who can successfully relax their heart rate by using slow deep breathing, for instance, will master juggling balls in a Mediterranean courtyard and move on to the next task. But those who cannot relax will cause the balls to fly off the screen. Wild Divine's founder, Kurt Smith, said he had set out to create a tool that people could use to ease tension without leaving their desks. 
 ''People's minds are spinning and spinning,'' said Mr. Smith, a yoga enthusiast and medical device entrepreneur. ''They're looking for a way to stop.'' 
 Since its introduction last January, Wild Divine has sold 25,000 copies of the game. The next version, in April, will let up to 18 people play simultaneously over the Internet. 
 And a new breed of specialists has emerged to ease life's turmoil by offering seminars and one-on-one counseling. A growing number of people now make a living as ''life coaches,'' ''health coaches'' or ''spirituality coaches,'' providing a wide variety of services, like identifying sources of stress or organizing living spaces.
 Typically, coaches charge $300 to $500 a month for three or four 30-minute calls and some shorter emergency phone calls. 
 Ronni Sandroff, a publishing executive, paid about $3,000 for nine months of coaching to spur her creativity in order to write a novel. The coaching, she said, helped her realize that stress was preventing her from reaching her goals and that most of the stress came from work.
 ''My job drained me emotionally,'' said Ms. Sandroff, who lives in Fort Lee, N.J. ''Once we dealt with the stress, it liberated me to do other things. It was really worth it. It was the most profound change I have had in my life since my daughter was born, and she's in her 30's.'' 
 A number of groups, like the International Coach Federation, offer certification for coaching, often requiring up to a year of study, including weekend workshops, telephone-based classes and a final test.
 Other experts offer stress-relief seminars, which teach everything from doodling to hypnotism. ''Hypnotism really gets to the root of the problem,'' said Mark Gagnon, a magician in Montpelier, Vt., who charges companies $1,000 to $3,000 for seminars at which he hypnotizes employees. He also sells a CD that people can listen to at home to hypnotize themselves.
 ''Stress is often a subconscious thing,'' he said. ''A lot of products mask the stress.'' 
 IN Los Angeles, Carol Ross Edmonston teaches seminars on doodling, aiming to have people live in the present with pen and paper and forget future or past worries.
 ''In these seminars, I'm really getting you to think, really getting you to look at whether you really have a strategy on how you handle chaos, how you cope,'' said Ms. Edmonston, 56, who twice survived breast cancer and discovered doodling's relief potential while sitting in a doctor's waiting room. 
 She said she was not motivated by money when presenting corporate seminars. ''My life doesn't depend upon making 'X' amount of money,'' she said. ''I'll work within their budgets.'' She has received as little as a couple of coffee gift cards and as much as several thousand dollars for her seminars.
 Ms. Edmondston is also co-author of ''Create While You Wait: A Doodle Book for All Ages,'' which sells for $12.95.
 Still, she recognizes that there are market forces converging on the overstressed. ''There are so many gimmicks that marketers will come up with when they see a problem,'' she said. ''Stress isn't going to go away. It's a fast-paced world.''

QUICK READ

For those on a quest for serenity, the variety of available products is nearly endless. Here is a sampling.

SCENTED INHALERS
LearningMeditation.com sells a $20 scented ''whiffer'' that looks like a wood pen but is really a ''personal aromatic inhaler'' that is said to enhance your awareness and give you a ''soothing break.''

HOT STONES
Gaiam.com sells sets for heating 50 polished massage stones and placing them along the spine of your back. The $225 kit promises to hit acupressure points and ''ease tightness, calm mind and spirit, and cleanse toxins from the body.''

LIGHTS AND HEARTBEATS
A $39 machine from Relaxor uses battery power to flicker any of seven colored lights inside a crystal ball and to play a number of relaxing sounds, from a heartbeat to a bird song.

SOOTHING SOUNDS
From Brookstone, the Nature Sounds Massage System, at $60, has two speakers on top of a neck massager. You can hear the sounds of rain or crashing waves as you relieve tension in your neck.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Judy Forsyth, a computer consultant, has a meditation altar, complete with a computer game that is intended to help her relax. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); MASSAGE SERVICES (91%); BIOFEEDBACK (90%); YOGA (90%); MEDITATION (90%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (77%); COMPUTER GAMES (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); TOYS & GAMES (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); LITERATURE (72%); WRITERS (72%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%) Stress (Human); Consultants; Recordings (Video); Vitamins; Yoga; Massage; Biofeedback; Books and Literature; Hypnosis; Industry Profiles

ORGANIZATION: Natural Marketing Institute

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); TIBET (79%); CHINA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



173 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Our Towns; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: A Land Deal, A Tax Bill And a Dispute

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Sherrill, N.Y. 

 BODY:
AT the SavOn convenience store in this tiny, tidy upstate city of 3,000 or so, a gallon of regular gas goes for $1.86, a pack of Marlboros goes for $3.75, and the history goes on forever.
 So to understand why the United States Supreme Court will hear arguments on Tuesday in the dispute between the city and the tribe, you need to sort through enough history to make your head spin: which tribes sided with the colonists and which with Great Britain in the Revolutionary War, the relative merits of the 1788 Treaty of Fort Schuyler, the 1794 Treaty of Canandaigua and the 1838 Treaty of Buffalo Creek.
 The core issue sounds simple: When the Oneidas bought land for the store in 1997 that was once part of their ancestral homelands, was the property again part of Indian country and thus exempt from local taxes, as the Oneidas claim? Or was it subject to taxes, as it had been under its previous owner, as the city claims? Within that simple question are all the ancient and contemporary grievances roiling upstate. 
 The saga of the SavOn station begins when? Centuries ago when only Indians inhabited New York? In 1788 when, under the Treaty of Fort Schuyler, New York purchased more than five million acres of Indian land? During the first years of the new federal government, when Congress asserted that only that government could approve and ratify land sales by Indian tribes?
 Legal briefs cite all three, but the dispute's immediate roots go back over the past two decades, when, largely because of the success of the Oneidas' Turning Stone Resort and Casino in Verona, the tribe found itself with the kind of clout upstate that it had lost more than two centuries ago. Flush with casino cash, the tribe began buying up land across Oneida and Madison Counties.
 When the Oneidas bought the land in Sherrill, they got a property tax bill from the city for about $3,000. They refused to pay, arguing that because the property was tribal land, it was part of a sovereign nation and exempt from local taxes. The city filed for eviction, and the legal battle was on. So far, the Federal District Court and the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit have ruled in favor of the tribe. 
 The Oneidas' argument is simple, and backed by considerable case law: Only the federal government can revoke a tribe's land ownership and tax exemption, and that hasn't happened. The city's argument is more complex, citing various treaties, the passage of time and the lack of tribal presence on the land, and alleging a gap in the Oneidas' existence as a tribe.
 But the dispute's power as a local cause celebre goes beyond the minutiae of ancient treaties. Sherrill's city manager, David Barker, says it's unfair and absurd for one local business to be able to pick and choose what taxes it will pay while others can't. An amicus brief by Madison and Oneida Counties says that Indians, who make up 0.3 percent of the population of the counties, have bought more than 16,000 acres of land that cost the counties about $1.5 million in lost property taxes and $8 million to $10 million in lost sales taxes that other residents have to make up.
 ''Our founding fathers would be rolling over in their graves if they ever thought it would come to this,'' said G. Robert Witmer Jr., a lawyer representing the two counties.
 THAT sense of unfairness runs through Sherrill, from Michael Bates at the struggling, for-sale gas station down the road from the SavOn, to Terry Dillman, who says her grandfather was 100 percent Oneida. 
 ''They've had a great ride, but it's time for them to pay their taxes like everyone else,'' said Barbara Butler, who had just bought two cartons of cigarettes at the SavOn for the price of what one carton would have cost elsewhere in town.
 But it's not that simple. Advocates for the Oneidas say they make payments to many local communities and schools in the form of voluntary ''silver covenant'' grants agreed upon with local governments. An amicus brief filed on behalf of various tribes says that the predictions of harm to local governments are belied by the experience of tribes in New York and elsewhere and, in fact, ''nothing has so improved the previously depressed economy of the Sherrill area as the casino built by the Oneida nation.''
 Daan Braveman, a law professor at Syracuse University, said the case reflected the Catch-22 that Indians face: Their sovereignty is not a divisive issue only as long as they remain too poor and powerless to do anything with it. Even some critics of the tribe say much of the blame should fall on the state for failing to adopt and enforce uniform tax compacts with the tribes.
 As for the passage of time, Harry R. Sachse, a lawyer in Washington who represents various tribes, said what belonged to the Indians then belongs to them now. 
 ''If you gypped them back in the time they didn't even speak English, and enough time goes by, that means you can gyp them forever?'' he asked. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (88%); PROPERTY TAX (88%); CONVENIENCE STORES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); NATIVE AMERICANS (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); SALES TAX (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); APPEALS COURTS (72%) Taxation; Oneida Indians; Indians, American; Sales Tax; Property Taxes; Treaties; Tax Exemptions; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (58%) savOn (Store) (Sherrill, NY)

PERSON: Peter Applebome; David Barker

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) New York State; Sherrill (NY); Oneida County (NY); Madison County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



174 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1523 words

HEADLINE: Vanguard Sprints but Says It's Not Racing

BYLINE: By TIM GRAY

 BODY:
JACK J. BRENNAN, chairman and chief executive of the Vanguard Group, is saying, as he has many times before, that his company isn't trying to become bigger. As Mr. Brennan speaks, he chops the air with his open hand for emphasis. ''We've never had a growth objective,'' he says. ''Ever. And we never will. Vanguard's goal is to deliver value to the client. How big we are is irrelevant.''
 Not pursuing bigness for its own sake is a core tenet at the company, which is based in Malvern, Pa. Even so, Vanguard's assets under management swelled during 2004; it says that some $56.4 billion flowed into the company's stock and bond funds. Through December, Vanguard, which sells its funds directly to investors, had surpassed $815 billion in assets under management. That makes it the country's second-largest mutual fund company, behind Fidelity Investments in Boston, which manages $892 billion in mutual funds and an additional $134 billion in trust assets.
 Not everyone believes that Vanguard isn't aiming to surpass Fidelity. ''Vanguard is trying to become a one-stop shopping place,'' said Roy Weitz, publisher of FundAlarm, a Web site that follows the mutual fund industry. ''They're becoming the down-to-earth version of Fidelity.'' Lately, Mr. Weitz said, Vanguard has seemed intent on attracting new customers, not just better serving existing ones. 
 Daniel P. Wiener, editor of the Independent Adviser for Vanguard Investors, a newsletter based in Watertown, Mass., echoed Mr. Weitz's observations. ''Bigness in itself isn't necessarily good,'' he said. ''But if you're going to be a financial supermarket, you've got to have aisles for every customer to walk down.''
 Some of Vanguard's recent growth probably resulted from scandals at some smaller companies like Strong Capital Management, where the founder, Richard S. Strong, traded at his customers' expense, and a host of other companies, where hedge funds were allowed to trade illegally. Many shareholders who fled such companies' funds probably ended up at Vanguard, which has long had a reputation as a stalwart protector of small investors.
 Even so, Mr. Brennan's strategies almost certainly have added to his company's Schwarzeneggerian bulk. Those measures include offering financial planning services and many new financial products. The growth accompanying these changes has presented opportunities and, occasionally, headaches for Vanguard customers.
 During the bear market, the company allowed its staff to shrink through attrition: doing more with less is another Vanguard tenet. Then, as the mutual fund scandals spread in early 2004, new money rushed in faster than Vanguard expected. 
 ''When the volumes hit us, we weren't ready,'' said Michael S. Miller, managing director for planning and development. ''We have a service standard that we'll answer every phone call within three rings. It's seconds we're talking about. We weren't doing seconds early in the first quarter. We were sometimes stretched into minutes, sometimes many minutes.'' Vanguard hired about 900 people during 2004, bringing total employment to about 10,500. The telephone times have returned to normal, said Dalbar, a Boston company that tracks customer service in the financial services industry.
 There is plenty of evidence that Vanguard's thrift helps its shareholders more often than it hurts them. It has enabled the company to keep pushing down average costs, increasing net return for shareholders. ''For retail investors, they're still the cheapest game in town,'' said Jeffrey Ptak, a senior mutual fund analyst at Morningstar.
 In 1993, Vanguard's funds carried an annual expense ratio of 0.3 percent, or $3 for every $1,000 invested, said Lipper, the mutual fund research company. In 2004, that number was down to 0.23 percent. The industry's average expense ratio rose to 1.35 percent from 1.02 percent over the same period.
 IN August, Fidelity cut the expense ratios on several index funds, including one that tracks the S.&P. 500, to 0.1 percent. For small investors, the ratio on the Vanguard 500 Index fund is 0.18 percent. 
 ''They agreed to waive part of their fee,'' Mr. Ptak said of Fidelity. ''That's the catch.'' The waiver could end at any time, he said. Vanguard says it sells services at cost to fund shareholders, who own the company. 
 ''With Vanguard, the fact that the fee has remained as low as it is for so long, that's the guarantee,'' Mr. Ptak said.
 A benefit of Vanguard's size is that the company can experiment, tiptoeing into new lines of business, without costing its shareholders much money. If these experiments show promise, they evolve into products or services.
 ''Anything we can do to diversify our business and create a better balance in our asset mix is something we'll do because it's to your advantage as a customer,'' Mr. Brennan said. ''You want us to be the most financially robust organization in the world. You want us to have staying power and deliver economies of scale.''
 Since Mr. Brennan became chief executive in 1996 Vanguard has expanded its ability to counsel customers about their finances. Today, shareholders can turn to an array of services from online calculators to personalized financial plans put together after consultations with investment advisers. 
 The cost of these services can depend on how much money an investor has at Vanguard. A person with no assets at Vanguard, for example, would pay $1,500 upfront for a full-fledged financial plan. A customer with more than $1 million in Vanguard assets would pay $250. 
 Giving advice signals a cultural shift at Vanguard. Historically, the firm catered to self-sufficient investors who worried mainly about costs. People who were willing to pay more for advice went to full-service brokers. Brokers, for their part, weren't inclined to sell funds from Vanguard because it wouldn't pay them sales fees, called loads in the fund business.
 In recent years, though, Vanguard has begun building closer relationships with brokers. In 2001, it introduced exchanged-traded shares for two of its funds. Brokers can sell these shares as they would any exchange-traded stock or bond, and their customers pay the brokerage commission. By September 2004, Vanguard had E.T.F.'s for 20 funds. 
 Vanguard calls its exchanged-traded shares Vanguard Index Participation Equity Receipts, or Vipers. They trade on the American Stock Exchange and enable investors to zip in and out of the company's funds. Vanguard otherwise discourages frequent trading because it drives up the costs for longer-term shareholders.
 At least one prominent mutual fund expert frowns on exchange-traded funds, saying they do little but encourage speculation. He is John C. Bogle, Vanguard's founder and former chairman and chief executive. ''While sector E.T.F.'s may well represent a better way to speculate, place me firmly in the camp who believe that any speculation is the ultimate loser's game,'' he said in a September speech.
 For many investors, Mr. Bogle continues to represent the spirit of the company he started in 1975, though he has no official role within its management. He remains popular among hard-core hobby investors and even has groupies who call themselves Bogleheads. 
 He has long fought for better mutual fund management and disclosure practices in the industry. And he has not been shy about calling attention to the recent mutual fund scandals and the shortcomings of competitors.
 Though he retired in January 1996, shortly before receiving a heart transplant, Vanguard provides him with an office and a small staff. And Mr. Bogle, who on a day in early December was padding around his office in wide-wale corduroys and a rose-colored sweater, hungers to be heard. He works 60 hours a week, writing speeches, books, opinion pieces and studies for finance journals. 
 In contrast, Mr. Brennan, wearing Gucci loafers on the same December day, gives every indication that he couldn't care less about public attention; he jokes about his disdain for it, wisecracking about executives who like to see their faces on magazine covers. In conversation, he makes little effort to ingratiate himself, answering succinctly and correcting questions he doesn't like. Annoyance flashes across his face when he is contradicted.
 MR. BRENNAN'S dislike of public attention extends to his pay, which Vanguard refuses to disclose. In fact, Vanguard will not discuss the compensation details of any of its ''crew members,'' its term for employees. (Mr. Bogle borrowed Vanguard's name from Adm. Horatio Nelson's flagship at the Battle of the Nile, and the company hews to the nautical theme. Its cafeteria is the ''galley''; its gym, ''Ship Shape.'' Models of boats decorate some of its halls.) 
 Vanguard's refusal to discuss compensation belies another bit of company orthodoxy, namely that it is owned by fund shareholders. Not everyone accepts that as a given.
 ''They want me to believe that I'm an owner if I'm a shareholder,'' Mr. Wiener said. ''But I have no rights. I only have the right to walk, which anybody has investing in any fund.''
 Lately, of course, few peoplehave been walking away from Vanguard.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Vanguard maintains a nautical theme throughout its landlocked headquarters -- from a campus walkway, above, to its cafeteria, right, to its fitness center, left. Jack Brennan, its chairman, above right, says the firm does not seek bigness for its own sake. (Photographs by Ryan Donnell for The New York Times)(pg. 33)Chart: ''Formula for Growth''Vanguard has become the second-largest fund company in part by keeping its expenses much lower than the industry average.Graph tracks Vanguard's U.S. assets (Equity, bond and money market funds) from 1995-2004.Graph tracks Vanguard's expenses as percentage of assets (as well as the industry's average*) from 1995-2004.* Through November.(Sources by Vanguard
 Lipper Analytics)(pg. 33)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); BONDS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (74%); BOND FUNDS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (73%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (69%); SCANDALS (66%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (65%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: FMR CORP (71%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (58%); STRONG CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Vanguard Group Inc; Fidelity Investments Inc

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (71%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (71%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: John J Brennan; Tim Gray

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



175 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Behind the Bouncing Ball of Oil Prices

BYLINE: By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
YOU wouldn't expect to walk into a drugstore and find regular toothpaste selling for as much as $6 a tube. You might be equally surprised if the price dropped to $1.50. But in the market for oil, where forecasts for prices now vary by a factor of four, that kind of range may soon become a reality.
 The future price of oil is a topic on which very intelligent, well-informed people can have completely different views. Michael J. Economides, a professor of chemical engineering at the University of Houston who has advised Russian oil companies, predicted this week that oil would soon sell for more than $100 a barrel. Frederick P. Leuffer, a senior managing director and senior energy analyst for Bear Stearns, forecast that oil would average just $25 a barrel in 2005. 
 The peculiar thing is, each could be correct at some point this year. Oil prices, now at about $45 a barrel, can be extremely volatile, spiking and plunging within weeks. If they were not, the current level of uncertainty might seem much less rational. Where does the volatility come from, though, and is it likely to persist?
 The first question has some obvious answers. The market for oil carries more risk of huge shocks to supply and demand than most markets for commodities. 
 Sure, it is possible that scientists will someday discover that orange juice causes cancer, but that thought probably doesn't keep many traders up at night.
 The demand for oil, however, could be hurt in an instant -- for example, if someone invented a portable cold fusion generator that could safely power a car or heat a house. It would take time for countries to switch to the new power source, and oil would still be needed for producing plastics and other products, but the writing would be on the wall.
 On the supply side, conflicts and cartels haven't been able to cut off or control the world's coffee or cocoa. But every time a butterfly flaps its wings in the Persian Gulf, a hurricane hits London and New York.
 There is clearly plenty of room for unexpected turns in the price of oil, and perhaps that justifies the huge range in predictions. Yet according to Stephen Figlewski, a professor of finance at New York University, uncertainty can actually increase volatility.
 It can happen in two ways. The first occurs when uncertainty is perceived as risk, Professor Figlewski said, as in the case of shares in a company. If the shares are seen as risky, fewer people might trade them. As a result, the market would be less liquid, and prices would be likely to move in fits and starts rather than in smooth, continuous trends. 
 ''A little bit of new information, or buying or selling demand pressure, will push the price a lot,'' he said.
 The second occurs when there are many buyers and sellers but poor information, as in the market for illegal drugs. If someone decides to sell drugs above the market price, buyers may assume that the correct price has changed, even if they don't know why the price is rising. With better information, no one would buy, and the price would stay at its old level. But the lack of information means that the price might hover at an inefficient level -- either higher or lower than the competitive price -- without the knowledge of the buyers and sellers. This case, Professor Figlewski said, may be more applicable to the market for oil.
 The explanation fits with Professor Economides's view, too. With colleagues at the University of Houston, he has created a model for the market price of oil based only on demand and available supply, putting aside the political hiccups that affect prices in reality. If oil were to trade on a free market with buyers and sellers acting like profit-seeking businesses, he said, the average price would be $29 or $30 a barrel.
 What keeps prices high and may push them higher, Professor Economides said, is fear. 
 ''People are worried about supply more than anything,'' he said. ''That's really what creates a lot of the volatility in the market. It's human psychology. It's not really an economic fundamental.''
 Some of those worries are justified, he added. Militancy by Venezuela and Iran, the Russian government's control of major oil companies and terror in Saudi Arabia could combine with rising Chinese demand to send oil prices ''through the roof,'' he said.
 But Mr. Leuffer of Bear Stearns was not buying it. In fact, at Professor Economides's prices, he would be selling.
 ''The event I'm telling you to look for is no event,'' he said. ''No event, no calamity, will be the death toll of high oil prices.''
 The biggest disaster for oil buyers, Mr. Leuffer said, would be a terrorist strike on Saudi Arabia's oil fields. The fact that no such strike has happened, he asserted, is evidence enough that it probably will not happen soon. He also dismissed concerns about Venezuela, whose president, Hugo Chavez, has often advocated higher prices. ''For years, we worried about the Chavez government. But the fact of the matter is, he's still there, he just won another election, and they pump.''
 Prices could fall quickly, Mr. Leuffer said, as speculators find themselves on the wrong side of their bets. ''You still have a speculative premium in crude oil of $13 to $15 a barrel in today's price. As the price goes, down, it encourages the speculators to liquidate those positions.'' Risking comparisons to the famously laconic Yogi Berra, he concluded, ''to get prices to go down a lot, you need to get them to go down a little first.'' 
 But even with low prices in the next year, volatility could continue and even increase. Ups and downs, Mr. Leuffer explained, benefit Saudi Arabia, which has the world's biggest reserves. High prices provide needed revenue to support the Saudi government in the near term, he said, but a long plateau of high prices could encourage people to seek other sources of energy. Occasional periods of low prices are just the thing to keep them hooked, and to guarantee a century of Saudi fiscal stability.
 ALL of this is good news for holders of options to buy and sell oil. With prices jumping around, it's more likely that those investors will find profitable prices for trading. But volatility by itself is rarely good news for buyers or sellers, apart from the Saudis. Prices took their toll at gasoline stations on their way up, but on the way down they left overoptimistic governments of oil-producing countries facing big budget deficits.
 How to end the volatility? Professor Economides suggested switching vehicles to natural gas, though the United States would still need about a quarter of its current oil purchases to make plastics and other byproducts, and the shift would certainly take more than a decade, he said. Perhaps, in the meantime, a little peace would do.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks near-month crude oil futures contract (and price per barrel) from Jan. 2004 through Jan. 2005. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ENGINEERING (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); CARTELS (72%); COFFEE (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (72%); PLASTICS (50%); CANCER (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: Frederick P Leuffer; Michael J Economides; Daniel Altman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



176 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Nation; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: For College Football, Perfect Isn't Enough

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
WHEN the college football season concluded on Tuesday night, three top teams had achieved something that you might think would be cause for great celebration: a perfect record, undefeated and untied. 
 Perhaps surprisingly, in a sport where teams play only 11 to 14 games a season and there are huge differences in talent and ability even among the 117 colleges in Division I-A, the top tier of competition, undefeated seasons are fairly rare. Sometimes, no team manages it; there haven't been three in one season since 1973. 
 So there ought to be elation at the ultimate success achieved by the football programs at the University of Southern California, Auburn and the University of Utah, right? So many young people being justly lauded as a reward for effort and teamwork? 
 But somehow in sports, a glut of success is too much. It isn't specific enough. No one wants to chant, ''We're among the best!'' 
 Instead, fans, commentators and columnists are in collective gripe mode over the fact that no flawless formula exists to anoint one of these teams as the certain and unarguable best in the country. In the end, the combination of polling, computer analysis and the outcome of bowl games -- especially the four gathered under the rubric of the Bowl Championship Series -- still leaves room for debate over which team is the elite of the elite, the one and only victor.
 And even though there is a widespread consensus this year that Southern Cal -- which gave the previously undefeated University of Oklahoma a sound thrashing on Tuesday at the Orange Bowl in Miami -- is the finest team in the land, that still leaves fans of Auburn (which defeated Virginia Tech in the Sugar Bowl) and Utah (which beat the University of Pittsburgh in the Fiesta Bowl) bleating with dissatisfaction that the crowning was determined by fiat and not on the gridiron itself. 
 Now, you may think this is not a problem that is crying out to be fixed, but that would be because you are not someone obsessed with ultimate victory. You probably don't hold with the notion that the only triumph worth crowing about is an unshared one. But for those critics of the National Collegiate Athletic Association who find its management of bowls and polls wanting, the proper attitude is one that Gore Vidal borrowed from La Rochefoucauld, famously saying: ''It is not enough to succeed. Others must fail.''
 Football Vidalians want to set up a playoff system, an end-of-season tournament pitting the top teams -- 4 or 8 or 16 of them -- against one another in a series of elimination rounds, the way college and pro basketball and baseball do. Pro football and the lower echelons of N.C.A.A. football work that way, too. 
 But doing that in Division I-A would either mean ending the long-established system of bowl games, or adding more games to a season that already overtaxes student athletes. 
 After the 1997 season, when two colleges, Nebraska and Michigan, laid equal claim to the No. 1 ranking, the Bowl Championship Series was established ''to determine the national champion for college football while maintaining and enhancing the bowl system that's nearly 100 years old,'' according to the mission statement on its Web site. 
 Before 1998, the bowls operated independently of one another, and though many of them had contractual agreements with specific conferences, they still ended up competing for the best teams and matchups. The B.C.S. is essentially a peace treaty, an agreement among the four biggest bowls to take turns as a national championship game, choosing participants through an arcane formula combining polls and computer rankings. It sounds good, but it has resulted every year in palpable unfairness, howling controversy and a general view that the solution has only made the problem worse. 
 Thus, annually, come the thunderous demands of football fundamentalists that it is high time for the single-superpower theory to assert itself. But it remains unclear what was actually wrong with the bowl-and-poll system as it was before the B.C.S. For college athletes, a bowl berth is, after all, a palpable reward for a season well played. It catalyzes enthusiasm on campus and among alumni. The games make substantial economic contributions to the universities whose teams play in them; they fill the coffers of the communities in which they are held. Corporate America considers them valuable enough to pay premiums for naming rights. (The Chick-fil-A Peach Bowl!) 
 This is good, no? Everybody wins?
 There were 28 bowl games this year -- 56 teams sharing the postseason, with all their young athletes enjoying national television exposure. And on the field, while the designated national championship game was a one-sided dud, the Rose Bowl (Texas 38, Michigan 37), the Capital One Bowl (Iowa 30, Louisiana State 25), the Outback Bowl (Georgia 24, Wisconsin 21) and the Liberty Bowl (Louisville 44, Boise State 40) were 60-minute thrillers. Think of all those students on winter vacation, following their teams to an alien part of the country, painting their faces in school colors and screaming ''We're No.1!'' at the roving television cameras. Absent a true playoff, they are never really proved wrong. 
 This is college, remember, and these are kids. A tournament that elevates a single victor also spreads around the experience of losing; you can't end up with more than one perfect team. Why dash so many dreams?


GRAPHIC: Photos: Equally undefeated: Matt Leinart and Pete Carroll after U.S.C. won the Orange Bowl
Jason Campbell of Auburn after a December victory. (Photo by Marc Serota/Reuters)
 (Photo by Ric Field/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (93%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BASEBALL (73%); BASKETBALL (73%); WRITERS (52%) Football; Bowl Games

ORGANIZATION: AUBURN UNIVERSITY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (83%); NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (59%) National Collegiate Athletic Assn; University of Southern California; Auburn University; University of Utah

PERSON: Bruce Weber

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



177 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: About That Old Computer

 BODY:
Now that the holidays are over, we find ourselves wondering what the happy owners of new computers and televisions did with their old models. This is not idle curiosity. Unless these electronic devices are redeployed as coffee tables, they might wind up as trash on the streets of New York. That is not illegal -- although it should be. E-waste, as it is known, is toxic. It is also the next big challenge in managing the city's mountain of garbage. 
 A computer monitor or TV can contain seven pounds of lead, buried beneath the screen. Usually there are various amounts of two other heavy metals, mercury and cadmium, in the cathode ray tube or in components like circuit boards. Cellphone batteries contain some of the same pollutants.
 Many discarded electronic devices end up with the regular trash at an incinerator in New Jersey, where they can produce toxic fumes. Or they are taken to a landfill, where pollutants leach into the soil. Within two years, there may be 500 million obsolete computers in the United States, many of them here. Add to that the televisions orphaned with the proliferation of flat-screen models, and you begin to get the picture.
 The city has addressed the problem in a limited way, by, for example, sponsoring recycling events with equipment makers Dell and Lexmark. One event on Staten Island last fall retrieved five tons of electronics. But by one estimate, there are more than 75,000 tons of personal computers discarded yearly in the city and that doesn't count those stored by owners who would like to get rid of them. A bigger push is needed. Mayor Michael Bloomberg seemed to acknowledge that when he called for an initiative for electronics recycling in his solid waste management plan last year, a good first step, especially coming on the heels of the example the mayor has set on other recyclables. His decision to restore programs to recycle glass, plastics and metals was good for both the environment and the economy.
 The City Council is taking its own lead on e-waste and is working on recycling legislation that may call on the Department of Sanitation to schedule several special pickup days for electronics. That promises to be a useful element in a wider solution.
 New York can learn what not to do by studying California's struggles with an e-waste recycling program, which it finances with an upfront fee of as much as $10 on the purchase of televisions, PC's and other devices. The program has created a whole new bureaucracy and a process so inconvenient it may be discouraging participation. 
 A better approach may be to hold manufacturers responsible for the products they produce. Some companies do have programs to take back computers, although they charge the consumer. Maine -- taking a cue from European countries and Canada -- requires municipalities to help collect the items for delivery to a consolidator, who manages the recycling and bills the manufacturers. Besides providing a way to keep poisons from the air, soil and water, this system might also encourage a more intelligent and less toxic design of our machines.
 E-waste deserves urgent attention. In the meantime, New Yorkers need to do their part and resist the urge to just dump stuff on the street. We recommend that consumers explore recycling options. One way is to go to www.nycwasteless.org and examine its lists of manufacturers' take-back programs for old computers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); ELECTRONICS RECYCLING (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (86%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); COMPUTER MONITORS (78%); LANDFILLS (77%); CIRCUIT BOARDS (77%); WASTE REDUCTION (77%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (76%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); SPONSORSHIP (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT MFG (55%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%) Electronics; Editorials; Hazardous and Toxic Substances; Recycling of Waste Materials

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



178 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: A Plan to Resurrect a Queens Rail Line

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Dreams and Schemes for an Abandoned Rail Line'' (Jan. 2):
 The very best solution for the derelict Rockaway Beach Branch of the Long Island Rail Road in Central Queens is to build a combination rail and trail. 
 The disused 4.1-mile segment of this strategically located rail line lies almost in a direct path between Midtown Manhattan and Kennedy International Airport. Its restoration would permit the long sought direct, high-speed one-seat ride rail service from Grand Central Terminal and Penn Station to each of the six on-airport rail stations recently constructed by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. 
 A new rail line would increase economic activity in Woodhaven and other communities along the route and would cut 20 to 30 minutes off travel time to the Rockaways. The restored rail line would cost less than one-tenth of what the Port Authority plans to spend to link Kennedy to Lower Manhattan, while serving five times as many passengers. 
 By using modern state-of-the-art track design and rail cars, noise and vibration would be kept to a minimum. 
 Most residences are a considerable distance from the rail line, with only backyards, garages and tool sheds abutting the line. The wide right of way has plenty of room to include a linear park as well.

George Haikalis
Greenwich Village

The writer is president of the Institute for Rational Urban Mobility, an advocacy group on transportation issues.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SPEED TRAINS (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (78%); AIRPORTS (76%); PORT AUTHORITIES (76%); WRITERS (73%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (73%) Railroads

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (70%)

ORGANIZATION: Long Island Rail Road

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (70%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (70%)

PERSON: George Haikalis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



179 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: New Visions for Tomorrow's Army

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Increasing the size of our military forces assumes that the burden of national security policy should fall solely on them. This is the same mistake the administration has made.
 Today, the military is our dominant policy instrument, with missions ranging from combat to occupation, humanitarian relief, reconstruction and governance. Naturally, it is overstretched. Ask instead how we can use all the ''tools of statecraft'' in synergy -- diplomacy, economic policy, foreign assistance, public diplomacy and intelligence -- to address, in collaboration with allies and friends, the fundamental problems underlying the current threats: inequity in the global economy, failed governance and ''tribalism'' (ethnic and religious hatred). 
 That strategy would make increasing the size of the military unnecessary, relieve the stress on current forces, create hope and enhance global security, all at the same time.

Gordon Adams
Silver Spring, Md., Jan. 2, 2005

The writer is director of security policy studies, Elliott School of International Affairs, George Washington University.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); GLOBALIZATION (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%) United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: Gordon Adams

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



180 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: New Visions for Tomorrow's Army

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Unless we recognize the inappropriateness of running Army recruitment as if it were a corporation, enlistment will continue to fall short. The Army is a unique institution underpinning our democratic society. Its powerful attraction is the opportunity to be honored for serving the nation. Current efforts reduce service to a tasks-for-money proposition. 
 The men and women fighting overseas today have rewritten the ''contract'' between the Army and America, showing us all how it should be understood. 
 To fix recruiting, the Army's civilian leadership has to forgo its cost-benefit mentality and take actions that ensure that soldiers' families are supported economically, provide the greatest safety of equipment and tactics possible and aggressively facilitate the re-entry of soldiers back into society when their service is completed. Anything less makes declarations of honor ring hollow.
 Until we can value our military as the ultimate opportunity to contribute to free democracy, recruiting will languish.

Christine Wright-Isak
Fort Myers, Fla., Jan. 3, 2005

The writer, a sociologist who has lectured at the Army War College, is a professor of marketing and advertising at Florida Gulf Coast University.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (93%); MILITARY RECRUITING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); WRITERS (73%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) United States Armament and Defense; Draft and Recruitment (Military)

PERSON: Christine Wright-Isak

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT MYERS, FL, USA (51%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



181 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: The Safety Net, in Europe and America

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 The weakness of David Brooks's analysis is that the deficits created by the Republicans have transformed the low-tax, high-growth model into a low-tax, high-deficit, moderate-growth model that has yet to produce the gains in job growth promised for our money. 
 Instead of producing a model of high growth and good-paying jobs, the Republican strategy has left the government unable to cover its basic obligations. Now we are being asked to gamble what little Social Security benefits we have left in the stock market to cover for the Republicans' inability to do something fiscally responsible like balance a budget or produce a surplus.

Michael Scott
San Francisco, Jan. 4, 2005


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); BUDGETS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) United States Economy

PERSON: Michael Scott; David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



182 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: The Safety Net, in Europe and America

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 One key fact that David Brooks and other conservatives leave out when comparing the European and the American economic systems is that women, particularly mothers, work at far lower rates in Europe than in the United States today. 
 Mr. Brooks does not break down the reasons ''Americans work 50 percent more than Germans, French and Italians.'' The greater participation of American women in the work force increases the amount that we work compared with Europeans, helps drive our economy and increases our overall tax revenue. 
 Cultural and pragmatic changes like stronger legal barriers to gender discrimination in hiring and simply making lunch available to children at school would go a long way to help the European economy without lowering taxes and cutting social programs.

Julie Gosse
Ithaca, N.Y., Jan. 4, 2005


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WOMEN (90%); CONSERVATISM (88%); WOMEN WORKERS (88%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (72%); GENDER EQUALITY (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (59%) Women; Wages and Salaries; United States Economy

PERSON: Julie Gosse; David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (90%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



183 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2199 words

HEADLINE: George Jetson, Meet the Sequel

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
THE Sequel is totally cool. 
 General Motors' latest hydrogen car prototype, called the Sequel, will be unveiled today at a press preview of the North American International Auto Show here. It is a car unlike any other and a glimpse of a possible, very different, automotive future. Most important, it runs on a hydrogen fuel cell, so its only tailpipe emission is water vapor, not the smog-forming pollutants and greenhouse gases that come out of gasoline-powered cars. 
 So why do environmental groups see the Sequel not as a panacea for cars' environmental shortcomings but as G.M.'s latest Trojan horse? 
 G.M. has trotted out impressive hydrogen-fueled cars before -- most recently the Sequel's predecessor, the Hy-wire. G.M. says it will theoretically be able to mass-produce fuel cell vehicles affordably by 2010 -- even though most competitors, which are also working on the technology, say it will be decades before such vehicles are viable. 
 And G.M. hardly screams green in the present. In the 2003 model year, the average fuel economy of G.M.'s cars and trucks fell to its lowest point in two decades. And the company has lobbied vigorously to block more stringent fuel regulations and has taken major roles in lawsuits against California's antipollution rules. 
 ''There's no sign by General Motors that they have any inclination to act in the here and now,'' said David Doniger, policy director of the climate center of the Natural Resources Defense Council and a senior Environmental Protection Agency official in the Clinton administration.
 Lawrence Burns, G.M.'s vice president for research and development, says G.M. makes many vehicles that are the most fuel-efficient in their class. It also makes many laggards, though, and its Hummer is Detroit's least fuel-efficient brand. But Mr. Burns says the fuel cell can end gasoline's grip on the industry. 
 ''It could flat-out reinvent the automobile,'' he said in a recent interview. ''The environmentalists who think we're doing a head fake with this, either they're not listening to that part of the story or believe we've made it up. But the engineer in me says this is the greatest opportunity certainly in my career to truly come up with a better machine.''
 Hydrogen fuel cell cars are not to be confused with hybrid electric cars, which were brought to the United States in the late 1990's by Honda and Toyota. A hybrid vehicle uses an electric motor alongside an internal combustion engine. Hybrids work pretty much like regular cars; drivers just have to go to the gas station a bit less often. And hybrids are already here: more than 80,000 were sold in America last year. 
 By contrast, a fuel cell represents an entirely new way of propelling a car. A single cell is a waferlike device that separates hydrogen atoms into electrons and protons, using the electrons to generate a current. The byproduct of the process is water vapor, formed when the leftover hydrogen protons are combined with oxygen from the air. A whole stack of these wafers -- 372 in the Sequel -- is required to generate enough power for a car. The Sequel's stack is stored in a steel case a bit larger than a VCR. 
 Fuel cells have been around for more than a century. They provided power for the lunar landers, conveniently spitting out water for astronauts to drink. Back in the days of lunar landers -- in the 1960's and 70's, when G.M. was dominant among American corporations -- the company built the first automotive fuel cell prototype. The system, however, was clunky and filled an entire van, called ''Electrovan,'' and was sort of a cross between the Hindenburg and Scooby Doo's Mystery Machine. 
 More recently, G.M. and other automakers have been able to wedge fuel cell systems under the hoods of conventional vehicles, and the companies are convinced that riding on top of a tank of compressed hydrogen is no less safe than riding on top of a tank of gasoline.
 But G.M. also sees the technology as an opportunity to reimagine the automobile. All of the Sequel's essential components are housed in a surfboardlike platform under the car. While G.M. has displayed a similar idea at previous shows, the Sequel has been engineered to be a real car that complies with crash test regulations. 
 G.M. says it has been able to double the range of fuel cell vehicles in less than three years, to the point that the Sequel can travel 300 miles before refueling, making it the first hydrogen prototype that can go as far between fill-ups as a conventional car.
 At a glance, the Sequel looks like a modern blend of an S.U.V. and a station wagon. Because the fuel cells used in cars would operate at about 180 degrees Fahrenheit, they require more cooling and thus about twice the radiator space of a conventional car, so honeycombed radiator surfaces are nestled around the front taillights, in the back and on the sides. 
 Under its skin, if it is not quite ''The Jetsons,'' the Sequel is at least a car for the digital age. Braking, steering and other control systems will operate electronically, more like the systems on a modern jet than the mechanical and hydraulic controls on a conventional automobile -- though there will be backup conventional braking and steering controls. As a result, the Sequel will have far fewer moving parts than a normal car. 
 ''We've taken advantage of the fuel cell to electrify the automobile,'' said Chris Borroni-Bird, the G.M. engineer who was director of the Sequel project. ''It's an instant response, like turning the light on.'' G.M. estimates that the car can decelerate to a stop from 60 miles an hour in about one less car length than a conventional vehicle can -- and that it can get moving much faster. 
 Mr. Burns called it ''a sequel to the first hundred years of automotive transportation'' -- hence the name -- and a car with the potential to ''remove the automobile from the environmental debate.'' 
 Environmentalists, however, have wearied of G.M. trotting out whiz-bang prototypes. After all, the company toured the last hydrogen prototype, the Hy-wire, to every continent but Antarctica. If G.M. has been the industry's boldest visionary on hydrogen power, environmentalists also see it as the industry's chief obstructionist. 
 For instance, when the Bush administration proposed a 7 percent increase in fuel economy for sport utility vehicles and pickups in 2002, G.M. submitted a 330-page rebuttal -- an argument that dwarfed the combined filings of its competitors -- that said the change would hurt the company. 
 ''They tend to be the ringleader of the opposition,'' said Mr. Doniger of the Natural Resources Defense Council. ''We'd like to see the hydrogen cars,'' he added. ''But we'd like to see something real, real improvements achievable with current technology now.''
 Daniel Becker, the Sierra Club's top global warming strategist and a persistent critic of Detroit, said: ''Their first and last reaction is, 'It can't be done and shouldn't be done,' and only when forced, kicking and screaming, do they tell the engineers to go to it. And then they do it.''
 Mr. Burns said such criticism ''gives us zero credit for what we've done.'' One problem, he says, is that Americans haven't had an appetite for fuel-efficient vehicles, though demand for hybrids has outstripped production. Toyota and Honda have sold hybrid cars for five years, and the Ford Motor Company began selling its first hybrid, a version of its Escape S.U.V., last year. 
 Today, Ford will announce a plan to sell five different hybrid models by the fall of 2008. While G.M. has been selling hybrid buses to cities and has a modest version of hybrid technology in a few pickup trucks, it will be three years behind Ford in offering a hybrid comparable to the Escape. That said, Ford has the lowest overall fuel economy of the major automakers -- 18.8 miles a gallon, on average, compared with 19.9 for G.M. 
 ''Are we late on hybrids? Mm-hm,'' Mr. Burns said. ''Do we wish we had made some of those calls differently? Most likely. Is that game over? No, not at all.''
 EXECUTIVES at G.M. say that if the United States wants to become serious about reducing oil consumption, it cannot impose improvements solely on industry. They say that speed limits, which affect consumption, need to be lowered, that drivers need to be urged to take better care of cars and that the United States needs to do what Europe and Japan do -- slap far higher taxes on gas. ''If you want people to consume something less, the simplest thing to do is price it more dearly,'' G.M.'s chairman and chief executive, Rick Wagoner, said in an interview last year.
 In Germany and Britain, oil consumption has fallen since the 1970's. In the United States, where fuel costs less than half what it does in Europe, consumption has risen by more than a third since 1970, to 20 million barrels a day from 14.7 million. Are higher gasoline taxes likely? No. During the presidential race, each campaign accused the other of having once supported such an idea.
 G.M. is also hamstrung by its obligation to provide health care to 1.1 million Americans, a large number of whom are retirees. The obligation makes G.M.'s own health no small matter for the United States, but the nation's medical system puts G.M. at a disadvantage. Rivals in Japan and Germany, countries with socialized medical systems, do not have to bankroll retiree health care. G.M. has estimated that it will spend more than $60 billion on health care for its retirees and current workers after they retire over the next several decades. By contrast, Toyota has said in financial filings that its retiree health care liability is not even large enough to require disclosure. 
 But against the backdrop of war in Iraq, instability across the Middle East, growing debate about the world's oil supply and the threat of global warming, environmental groups say that there are several reasons for the United States to require cars and trucks to burn less gasoline. Not only is the number of automobiles growing with the population, but the fuel economy of the average vehicle has declined -- to 20.7 miles a gallon in the 2003 model year from 22.1 in 1988. Over that time, leaps in engine technology have been offset by swelling sales of S.U.V.'s and vehicles with faster engines. Some financial analysts also say Toyota's and Honda's aggressive environmental strategy could be an advantage as regulations increase in major markets like China. 
 A recent study, financed by the Hewlett Foundation and included in a report by the National Commission on Energy Policy, showed that the fuel economy of cars and trucks sold in the United States was the worst among all the major car markets.
 Are fuel cells the answer?
 Making the fuel cell a mass-market product faces any number of hurdles. The nation would have to spend billions of dollars to retrofit thousands of gas stations to dispense hydrogen. Huge amounts of hydrogen would have to be supplied cleanly and cheaply, or there would be little reason to use it. And it would be no small feat to persuade American car buyers to be guinea pigs in the industry's science project. 
 Finally, hydrogen cars have to become a lot less expensive to make. Two years ago, at the Detroit auto show, Carlos Ghosn, Nissan's chief executive, said that ''today a fuel cell car probably costs about -- I'm going to be optimistic -- $700,000.'' He added, ''We're far from sticker price, eh?'' 
 The biggest cost hurdles are in cheaply manufacturing the fuel stack and the hydrogen tanks, which use an unusual carbon fiber. ''I think we're saying it's roughly 10 times too expensive,'' Mr. Borroni-Bird said. 
 Mr. Burns says that most fuel-efficiency technologies will only delay issues like global warming, particularly as the number of cars and trucks grows around the world. ''Let's say we could wake up today and magically the 220 million cars and trucks in the United States were 25 percent more efficient,'' he said. If the goal was energy independence and reducing greenhouse gases, he added, ''well, you bought yourself about six years'' -- that is, those vehicles, over their lifetimes, would save six years of oil. The fuel cell, he argues, offers a cure, not a Band-Aid.
 THE auto industry is littered with promising technologies that did not materialize but seemed good bets at the time, from steam-powered cars to those powered by gas turbines. 
 A decade ago at the Detroit auto show, Jack Smith, then G.M.'s chairman, told reporters that battery-powered cars would be profitable in less than 10 years. Two years later, before another battery car demonstration at the Detroit auto show, he said that ''regulation can divert an automaker's resources and attention from fully exploring the range of technologies like those we are showing today.'' G.M. has since abandoned its battery-powered vehicle program.
 Mr. Becker of the Sierra Club said the world could not afford to dither. ''Making a car go further on a gallon of gas is the biggest single step we can take to curbing global warming,'' he said. ''G.M. keeps saying wait 20 or 30 years. We can't wait.'' 

Expanded coverage of the Detroit Auto Show, including new vehicle introductions: nytimes.com/autos.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Sequel, a G.M. car that runs on a hydrogen fuel cell, will be unveiled today in Detroit. (Photo by Andrew Sacks for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Chris Borroni-Bird is the engineer who directed the Sequel project. G.M. says the car has the potential to ''remove the automobile from the environmental debate.'' (Photo by Andrew Sacks for The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (91%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (91%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); CONCEPT CARS (90%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (90%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); HYBRID VEHICLES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); EMISSIONS (76%); GAS STATIONS (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); SMOG (76%); LOBBYING (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (71%); CLIMATOLOGY (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%) Automobiles; Fuel Cells; Hydrogen; Air Pollution; Global Warming; Fuel Efficiency; Automobiles

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



184 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: If Directors Snooze, Now They May Lose

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
HATS off to Alan G. Hevesi, comptroller of New York State and trustee of its Common Retirement Fund, who has proved that, yes, shareholders can hold individuals responsible for wrongdoing at companies. Institutional shareholders can no longer hide behind lame excuses for not following Mr. Hevesi's lead and demanding that the right people pay for malfeasance. 
 Last week, 10 former directors of WorldCom agreed to cough up $18 million of their own money to settle an investor lawsuit in which the New York retirement fund was the lead plaintiff. Investors, of course, lost billions when WorldCom morphed into world bomb, leading in 2002 to the biggest bankruptcy filing in history. 
 The accounting fraud at WorldCom was largely the result of a scheme by its managers to dress up its results by failing to deduct proper costs from the company's revenues. WorldCom's directors were not responsible for the fraud, of course. But they were asleep in the boardroom while it was going on; so, rather than face a jury and try to explain their lapses, the 10 directors agreed to pay one-fifth of their aggregate net worth to make the matter go away. 
 They did so only because Mr. Hevesi insisted. ''I felt personally that this would be unfair and not a deterrent for future failures on the part of directors if they weren't held personally liable,'' he said. ''The notion that companies can commit fraud and that the directors can ignore that and not meet their obligations as fiduciaries and be covered by insurance is just wrong.'' 
 Insistence like his, however, is all too unusual. Most institutional shareholders who sue corporate wrongdoers care only that their settlement money is green, not that it comes from the right people's pockets. 
 This is insane. If a company makes a settlement payment, shareholders are essentially paying for it themselves. If the money comes from insurance, the shareholders will also pay because coverage costs will surely rise after a large settlement. And remember, these payments almost always come after stockowners' holdings have plummeted on news of questionable behavior.
 Gary Lutin, an investment banker at Lutin & Company in New York who conducts shareholder forums on corporate control matters, said that the WorldCom settlement not only helped define what should be expected of company directors now -- it also raised the question of what should be expected of investors. 
 ''Investors say it is too difficult, too complicated and economically unjustifiable to commit to the burdens of leadership in these areas,'' he said. ''But what is clear is, the rules and tools have changed. Regulatory expectations of companies have changed, there are new public expectations and legal precedents. Everything has to be re-evaluated.''
 Shareholder inertia is a good place to start.
 To be sure, the forces at work against shareholders demanding accountability are formidable. First, it is tough for shareholders to succeed in lawsuits against directors who were on hand when a fraud occurred. Because the directors are typically somewhat removed from the day-to-day operations where improprieties take place, it is much harder to prove that they participated in the wrongdoing with an intent to defraud shareholders. Such intent, known as scienter, is required for success in most fraud cases.
 The WorldCom case was different because the company was selling securities to investors when the fraud was occurring. Because the judge found the offering statement to have been misleading, the directors faced a suit that did not require proof of their intent to defraud. That gave them impetus to settle.
 Legal experts also say that courts have hot helped shareholders who were trying to hold corporate executives or directors accountable. Elliott J. Weiss, professor of law at the University of Arizona and an authority on shareholder litigation, recalled a case some 20 years ago in which he represented a shareholder against Warner Communications, the predecessor to Time Warner.
 At the time, Warner's major source of revenue was its Atari unit, which made computer games. When that business hit a wall, the company's stock crashed. Stockholders later learned that Steven J. Ross, the company's chief executive, who has since died, had sold some $20 million in stock right before the debacle, Mr. Weiss said. Shareholders sued and received a $16 million settlement, paid for by the company.
 Mr. Ross had argued that he sold because he needed funds to cover tax bills generated by his exercise of stock options, not because of problems at Atari, Mr. Weiss recalled. ''I determined that Ross had never exercised stock options that year and that even if he had, it would not have triggered taxes,'' Mr. Weiss said. ''I filed an objection to that settlement based on the fact that Ross had acted with scienter in selling.'' Despite Mr. Weiss's arguments that Mr. Ross should pay the shareholders personally, the court approved the settlement, based on testimony from Mr. Ross about why he sold.
 ''This exemplifies the judicial attitude -- 'We're not going to disapprove these things because the wrongdoers aren't paying,''' Mr. Weiss said. ''If you had a couple of judicial decisions rejecting settlements because there was no contribution from wrongdoers,'' things might change.
 Another reason there have been so few settlements holding directors or officers accountable for malfeasance has to do with the huge growth in passive or indexed investing. People who invest this way, who now account for roughly one-third of all investment in the stock market, own whatever companies show up in a stock index, regardless of whether those companies are cooking their books. As a result, indexed investors owned Enron, WorldCom and most of the other scandal-plagued companies of recent years.
 This contributes to a dysfunctional system of capital allocation in the stock market, one in which companies are not penalized by investors who sell their shares when they spot trouble signs. In other words, there is a vastly reduced threat of ostracism from investors for companies that do wrong.
 Now, however, thanks to Mr. Hevesi, shareholders have an example of how to exert pressure on companies and their boards. ''Early on, Comptroller Hevesi made clear that WorldCom was the final straw and this wasn't going to be business as usual or litigation as usual,'' said Sean Coffey, a partner at Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann, who is one of the lawyers representing the retirement fund in the case.
 Will the WorldCom deal make directors see that because they are accountable, they should ask tough questions of the executives next to them in the boardroom? If not, large shareholders should keep the heat on, forcing the right people to pay whenever possible. 
 Maybe, just maybe, the days of directors snoozing while investors are losing are over at last.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan G. Hevesi (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); JURY TRIALS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (55%); COMPANY REVENUES (53%) Boards of Directors; Suits and Litigation; Frauds and Swindling; Accounting and Accountants

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Worldcom Inc; New York State Common Retirement Fund; Worldcom Inc

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (90%); VZ (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%)

PERSON: Gretchen Morgenson; Alan G (Comptroller) Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



185 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1639 words

HEADLINE: For Abbas, Palestinian Election May Be Easy Part

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Jan. 8 

 BODY:
If Mahmoud Abbas wins Sunday's election to succeed Yasir Arafat as president of the Palestinian Authority, as expected, he will face enormous challenges when he sits down to work on Monday morning.
 While relations with Israel are pressing, his most profound difficulties are internal. His job will be nothing less than restoring a semblance of fairness, security and stability to the institutions that profess to represent Palestinians and that will manage any future Palestinian state.
 The latest polls show Mr. Abbas, 69, winning between 52 percent and 59 percent of the vote in a field of seven candidates, with Dr. Mustafa Barghouti running second with about 25 percent. 
 When Mr. Arafat died on Nov. 11, Mr. Abbas, also known as Abu Mazen, was getting about 2 percent support in the same polls. The difference between now and then represents no new injection of charisma, but the surging expectations for change from a Palestinian people tired of violence, corruption, poverty and the presence of Israeli troops, Palestinian and Israeli analysts say.
 ''The people expect Abu Mazen to make brave and difficult decisions to put the whole Palestinian house in order, and that will make a real difference in Palestinian life,'' said Khaled Yazji, a former aide to Mr. Arafat. ''That's why he's gained this level of support.'' 
 Mr. Abbas's ''job is to create a country,'' Mr. Yazji said. ''It will be very difficult for him, even dangerous. But really it's simple -- is he a leader or not?''
 Mr. Abbas's challenges comprise security, institutional and personnel reform, Palestinian militants and relations with Israel, the analysts say. They also agree that there are those who do not want him to succeed, but instead want him dead.
 One key area is the Palestinian security operation. Israel says there are some 14 rival security services, not including the fighters of Hamas or Islamic Jihad, in the Palestinian Authority alone. Mr. Abbas says he wants to streamline them all into three branches under a central command, a step long pressed on Mr. Arafat by the United States and Europe.
 The rivalries and business clashes among many of the forces -- often encouraged by Mr. Arafat to set off one strongman against another -- have produced warlordism, corruption with state and donor money and a breakdown in public order. 
 Last week in Gaza, there was a shootout between rival security forces of Moussa Arafat, who is a relative of the late Mr. Arafat and is supposed to be in charge of Palestinian forces in Gaza, and Mahmoud Nashabat, who commands the Jenin Brigades based in the refugee camps in the center of Gaza. 
 Mr. Nashabat accused Moussa Arafat of sending someone to kill him. In response, he invaded one of Mr. Arafat's military posts, tied up the soldiers there and stole their weapons, belonging to the Palestinian Authority. Mr. Arafat then sent troops against Mr. Nashabat, but he was protected by the refugees and his own militia soldiers, and finally the elders of the camp intervened.
 In the last two months in Gaza, up to 50 people have been killed in cases ranging from business disputes to military rivalries, according to Gazan residents and local journalists. No one has been arrested; the Palestinian Authority police are relatively powerless against the warlords, who claim to act in the interest of the struggle against Israel.
 Last month, during Ramadan, a commander of one of the Gazan security forces asked a car mechanic to fix his vehicle just before iftar, the breaking of the daily fast. The mechanic said he would fix the vehicle the next day. The commander shot and killed him and walked away.
 ''People know the killers, but no one touches them,'' said Salah Abdel Shafi, an economist and political analyst from a family long-associated with the Palestine Liberation Organization. ''If you don't have ties to a security group or a big family or tribe, you're in trouble. A traffic dispute can lead to a murder.''
 In the West Bank, too, where Israel has permitted the Palestinian police to carry weapons only rarely since the spring of 2002, when Israeli troops returned in force, there is little sense of public order.
 ''The security services must be made loyal to the state, not to their leaders,'' said Mr. Yazji. ''It can't be cosmetic. It means a dramatic change in those leaders.'' And those leaders have arms and loyal men to use them.
 The speculation is that Mr. Abbas will name a respected commander, Maj. Gen. Nasser Youssef, a member of Al Fatah's central committee, as overall boss of Palestinian security services, and possibly as interior minister, a job Yasir Arafat had not wanted him to have. Another candidate for the Interior Ministry post is said to be Tayeb Abdul Rahim, who has been secretary general of the Palestinian Authority.
 Al Fatah, the main Palestinian political movement, has rallied around Mr. Abbas after the death of Yasir Arafat, its founder. But if Mr. Abbas is going to change the lives of ordinary Palestinians, he must move quickly to change the personnel of the movement that says it represents them. He cannot control Israel's responses, voters know, but he can make internal changes to promote democracy, transparency and justice.
 Hanan Ashrawi, a Fatah legislator and reformer, said, ''The Palestinians' problem is not absence of democracy -- it's the absence of freedom.''
 But Mr. Abbas will face great resistance from inside the very movement that delivers the presidency to him, a movement still dominated by Mr. Arafat's loyalists, many viewed as corrupt. 
 Mr. Abbas campaigned on a promise that institutions will govern, not a leader, and that law will rule, not the gun. Now he must deliver.
 ''If Abu Mazen is serious about reform, and I believe he is, he will have to make some quick and visible changes in the old leadership in Fatah,'' said Mr. Shafi. ''If he is serious about fighting corruption, and he is, it will affect not a minimal sector of the Palestinian Authority and the bureaucracy.''
 Ismail Sommad, a leader of the Fatah Youth Organization, said: ''The biggest danger to Fatah is internal corruption. You've seen the chaos. Do you think Hamas is a part of it or responsible? I don't think so. Our leaders were responsible.''
 Mr. Abbas is expected to pension off a number of those who surrounded Mr. Arafat and returned with him from exile in 1994, while trying to recruit and promote a younger generation in their 40's that grew up after the 1967 Middle East war, in which Israel seized and occupied the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
 Their leaders include Muhammad Dahlan, a powerful political figure in Gaza, and Jibril Rajoub, his former counterpart as head of preventive security in the West Bank. But they also include Marwan Barghouti, who is serving five consecutive life sentences in an Israeli jail and supports continued armed resistance against Israel.
 Mr. Abbas promises internal Fatah elections for the first time in decades, to refresh the central committee and the larger revolutionary council; some are pressing for internal primaries to select candidates for the first legislative elections since 1996, which are now tentatively scheduled for July 17.
 ''The poor guy is going to have the most unpleasant presidency in the world,'' Mr. Shafi said. ''And then comes Hamas and dealing with the Israelis.''
 Mr. Abbas has been open during the campaign about stopping the current uprising as counterproductive and instead negotiating with Israel to achieve the goal of a viable, independent Palestinian state. On Monday, he will be able to claim that the voters have provided him and his program support and legitimacy -- one reason why his success on Sunday will be measured both by his margin of victory and the turnout.
 In fact, Mr. Abbas could then reasonably claim to have the most democratic credentials of any Arab leader in the world. 
 But his program is a direct challenge to a generation of armed fighters who have defined themselves by their resistance to Israel. Many of those fighters, like those in Al Aksa Martyrs' Brigades, are affiliated with Al Fatah and are loyal to Mr. Barghouti.
 If provided jobs, salaries and uniforms in a reformed security service, many of these fighters would go along, analysts believe, especially if they are convinced that they are serving a new Palestine. And a revived economy would absorb a large number of them in real jobs.
 Many others represent a real opposition -- belonging to militant Islamic organizations like Hamas and Islamic Jihad, which have rejected Mr. Abbas's call for a formal cease-fire and demand that he apologize for criticizing those who fire rockets at Israeli settlements. Others, in armed gangs called Popular Resistance Committees, made up of militants from various factions, have no stake in stability.
 ''These fighters don't want the situation improved and are against the application of institutional supremacy in Palestinian life and politics,'' said Mr. Sommad, the Fatah youth organization leader.
 Mr. Abbas says he wants to be inclusive, both of the militants and of the Islamists, as part of the Palestinian nation. Mr. Abbas is trying to open a serious dialogue with all factions to work out ground rules and a political program that both Hamas and Al Fatah can accept.
 That, too, will be an extraordinary challenge. But only when he has some form of better internal Palestinian consensus will he be able to talk seriously to Israel about how to turn a relative period of calm into something more permanent. 
 ''I'm more optimistic than before, but things are very fragile,'' Mr. Shafi said. ''All it would take is for someone to shoot Abu Mazen to produce chaos. Foreigners are happy that things have gone smoothly after Arafat and we've had this nice election campaign. But people and institutions and cultures don't become democratic overnight.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mahmoud Abbas waved to supporters at a campaign rally on Friday in Beir Naballah, near Jerusalem. (Photo by Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (88%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); HAMAS (78%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); AL FATAH (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); ETHICS (76%); TERRORISM (74%); CORRUPTION (72%); REFUGEES (64%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (50%); RELIGION (50%) Palestinians; Elections; Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems; Ethics; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: Fatah, Al (Orgn); Palestinian Authority

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (92%) Steven Erlanger; Mahmoud Abbas; Yasir Arafat

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (95%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Israel; Israel

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



186 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Applying Brakes to Benefits Gets Wide G.O.P. Backing

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8 

 BODY:
In his budget request to Congress, President Bush will try to impose firm, enforceable limits on the growth of federal benefit programs, and the chairmen of the Senate and House Budget Committees say they strongly supported that effort.
 Administration officials and Congressional aides said Mr. Bush would also seek cuts in housing assistance for low-income families, freezes or slight increases in most domestic programs, and larger increases for domestic security. The spending plan for 2006, like the appropriations enacted for this year, would give priority to military operations and domestic security over social welfare programs. 
 The new chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, said he and other fiscal conservatives wanted to establish ''enforcement mechanisms'' to ''put the brakes on the growth of entitlements,'' which pay benefits to millions of Americans according to formulas set by law.
 ''The White House also wants to address entitlement spending,'' Mr. Gregg said in an interview. 
 Mr. Bush plans to submit his budget to Congress early next month. Officials at the affected agencies said he would propose a virtual freeze for the National Science Foundation and a very small increase for the National Institutes of Health.
 Agency officials throughout the government spoke on condition of anonymity because the White House wants to control the way details of the president's budget are released.
 A legislative proposal drafted by the White House would make it more difficult for Congress to pass legislation increasing the ''long-term unfunded obligations'' of benefit programs like Social Security, Medicare, Civil Service retirement and disability, veterans disability compensation, and health benefits for retired federal employees.
 A White House document describing the proposal says that Medicaid, the health program for low-income people, can be added to the list as soon as federal officials devise a reliable way to estimate its long-term costs. Medicaid spending has shot up 63 percent in the last five years, so that federal and state outlays together now total more than $300 billion a year.
 The president's proposal, the Spending Control Act, closely resembles a bill drafted by Representative Jim Nussle, Republican of Iowa and the chairman of the House Budget Committee, who said his goal was to establish more ''discipline and enforcement'' of restraints on spending.
 In the interview, Mr. Gregg said he wanted to take a close look at the new Medicare law, signed by Mr. Bush in 2003. The law offers prescription drug coverage to all 41 million elderly and disabled beneficiaries.
 ''It was supposed to cost $400 billion over 10 years, but new estimates show the costs could be 50 percent higher,'' Mr. Gregg said. ''Before we start the program in an aggressive way in 2006, we have to be sure. Since it was sold as a $400 billion program, that's what we should keep it at.''
 While Mr. Bush and most Republicans in Congress supported the Medicare bill, Mr. Gregg voted against it, calling it fiscally irresponsible. ''This bill is the largest intergenerational tax increase in the history of this country,'' Mr. Gregg said in an impassioned speech on the Senate floor in November 2003. The bill, he said, is ''not paid for,'' does nothing to control costs and will require ''a massive tax increase'' on workers and Americans who have yet to be born.
 Democrats have denounced the law, saying it helps insurance companies and drug companies more than elderly people. But until now, Republicans generally expressed no desire to re-examine the law, saying it should be given a chance to work.
 In his speech in 2003, Mr. Gregg said the drug benefit should have been limited to Medicare beneficiaries with low incomes or high drug costs that could wipe out their assets. He also criticized a section of the bill under which the government would pay billions of dollars in subsidies to encourage employers to continue providing drug benefits to retirees.
 The federal budget deficit hit a record of $413 billion in 2004. At a White House economic conference last month, Mr. Bush said, ''We're going to submit a tough budget.''
 In 2004, federal revenues were 5.6 percent lower than in 2001. But federal spending was 23 percent higher, and total debt held by the public -- the amount borrowed to pay for past deficits -- was 29 percent higher. 
 The White House says that revenues declined because of the 2001 recession and tax cuts intended to stimulate the economy, while spending increased because of domestic security and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 Still, entitlement programs and other mandatory spending account for a growing share of the budget, 49 percent in 1994 and 54 percent last year, and under current law the Congressional Budget Office says they will reach 58 percent by 2014. Officials at the affected agencies gave these details of work on the president's budget:
 $(6$)For the current fiscal year, Congress cut the budget of the National Science Foundation by about 2 percent, to $5.47 billion, and the White House Office of Management and Budget initially proposed a further cut of about 5 percent for 2006. But the agency appealed, with support from allies like Senator Christopher S. Bond, Republican of Missouri, and the White House decided to propose a flat budget, instead of cuts.
 $(6$)The White House budget office initially sought a small cut at the National Institutes of Health, which received an appropriation of $28.4 billion for the current fiscal year. But after an appeal by Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, the White House agreed to propose a small increase, less than 2 percent, which would not be enough to keep pace with the rising costs of biomedical research.
 $(6$)The administration intends to propose cuts in housing vouchers, which provide families with rental assistance averaging $6,800 a year, and the White House budget office is also seeking cuts in the community development block grant.
 $(6$)Mr. Bush will try again to end the Advanced Technology Program in the Commerce Department, which is spending $142 million this year to speed development of high-risk technologies in medicine, manufacturing, engineering, computer science and other fields. President Bill Clinton liked the program, but the conservative Heritage Foundation calls it ''corporate welfare at its worst.'' 
 As chairman of the Budget Committee, Mr. Gregg said, he will also scrutinize farm programs.
 ''Agricultural entitlements are crying out to be reformed,'' Mr. Gregg said. ''Farmers are being paid a huge amount not to produce certain crops. Then they get paid a lot to produce other crops. It's a little beyond the obscene.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Judd Gregg favors holding the line on entitlement costs. (Photo by Associated Press)Chart: ''Entitlements On the Rise''Federal spending on entitlement programs makes up more than half of all federal spending and its share is projected to grow over the next decade.Graph tracks entitlements and other mandatory spending, discretionary spending, and interest on the debt as percents of all federal spending from 1980-2014. (2005-2014 are estimates.)(Source by Congressional Budget Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (87%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (72%); FAMILY (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (69%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (69%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (69%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%); TERRORISM (59%); MEDICAID (57%) Social Security (US); Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicare; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (55%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JUDD GREGG (89%); JIM NUSSLE (58%) Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) United States; Iraq; Afghanistan ; United States

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



187 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3659 words

HEADLINE: Mayday? Payday! Hit the Silk!

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
PITY Sammy Sosa. If the Chicago Cubs dump him after his contract expires this year, Mr. Sosa, the struggling slugger, will receive only a $4.5 million buyout payment and $3.5 million in severance.
 True, his send-off would be more lucrative than the one recently awarded to a group of baseball umpires: several got about $400,000 each to settle a severance dispute. And it is far better than the severance pay state officials want for 1,100 blue-collar workers at Great Northern Paper, a bankrupt company in Portland, Me. The state is suing the company's owner, seeking an average of about $23,000 for each of its former employees.
 But Mr. Sosa's prospective goody bag seems meager when compared with the retirement pinata that the Bank of America plans to bestow on Charles K. Gifford when he steps aside as its chairman at the end of this month. An amiable, dedicated manager with a decidedly mixed track record as chief executive, Mr. Gifford, 62, has managed to survive strategic misfires, one bungled merger and another merger that kept him in the top ranks of the bank but no longer in control. 
 For his ministrations, Mr. Gifford is promised a $16.36 million cash payment, up to an additional $8.67 million in ''incentive payments'' for work done over the last 13 months and $3.1 million a year for life. If he dies before his wife, she will receive $2.3 million a year, also for life. 
 That's not all. The bank guarantees him $50,000 a year in consulting fees, 120 hours of free flight time a year on the company's jet, and an office and a secretary, according to federal securities filings. All of this is on top of $38.4 million in company stock that he has accrued over his 38-year career. 
 Wait. There is more: Mr. Gifford, a Bostonian, has also been offered the right to buy 60 Red Sox tickets from the bank annually for the rest of his life. Now exhale.
 Executive retirement pay is in the spotlight again, thanks to the controversial departure of Franklin D. Raines from Fannie Mae, the mortgage giant that is mired in an accounting scandal and criminal investigation. Despite Fannie Mae's woes, its board allowed Mr. Raines, the chief executive, to retire rather than be fired, making him eligible for $1.4 million in annual retirement pay and other perks. Federal regulators and legislators will review that payout. 
 In most cases, however, detailed information about how big a retirement package chief executives are eligible to receive is harder to track down than one of Mr. Sosa's towering home runs. Public companies are required to publish a fairly detailed list of the more obvious forms of compensation: annual pay, bonuses and stock awards. But shareholders and securities lawyers say that there is a dearth of clear, concise information about retirement pay from most companies.
 And now that other forms of compensation are simpler for investors and shareholders to scrutinize, critics are concerned that chief executives may be quietly bundling potential riches in outsized retirement plans. The Securities and Exchange Commission said in October that it planned to examine retirement compensation disclosure more closely.
 ''There are no statistical studies of retirement packages, because all of the data the economists use are based on the compensation tables, and retirement pay doesn't show up there,'' said Jesse Fried, a law professor at the University of California, Berkeley. ''Firms should be required to put a dollar value on these stealth compensation packages and disclose that in a compensation table.''
 Despite the brouhaha surrounding Mr. Raines, it is unclear whether corporate compensation committees plan to push for greater retirement disclosure and more modest payouts. Warren E. Buffett, the billionaire investor who is a longtime critic of corporate compensation practices, has said that getting clubby boards to question enormous executive paydays is like expecting well-behaved guests to start ''belching at the dinner table.''
 In their book, ''Pay Without Performance'' (Harvard University Press), Professor Fried and his co-author, Lucian Bebchuk, a Harvard Law School professor, contend that retirement pay is just the most recent hiding place for excessive compensation and that executive contracts are intentionally drafted to keep things quiet. ''Compensation plan designers have an incentive to obscure or make more opaque the total value of an executive's compensation package,'' they wrote, ''as well as to disguise the extent to which the form of compensation deviates from what best serves shareholders' interests.'' 
 Some compensation specialists said the debate over excess was misplaced, largely because the packages that pop into the open are statistical outliers and do not reflect the serious steps that boards have taken to turn off the corporate spigot and to moderate compensation. Moreover, they said, market forces drove compensation practices in recent years, when competition for superstar chief executives was intense. 
 People tend to focus on the few pay packages that are extraordinary, ''but continuity of leadership and the interests of the company are important,'' said Sue Holloway, a compensation specialist at WorldatWork, a firm in Scottsdale, Ariz. ''It's much more free-agent now, and when you have difficulty attracting talent, the price goes up. It's just like sports.''
 FOR its part, Bank of America said that Mr. Gifford's retirement package reflected his long career and stellar managerial contributions to the company. Mr. Gifford once ran the BankBoston Corporation, which fell into the arms of the Fleet Financial Corporation in a 1999 merger that created the FleetBoston Financial Corporation. That merger went awry, and the combined company suffered heavy losses under Mr. Gifford's leadership. Bank of America bought FleetBoston in 2003.
 ''Chad Gifford spent 38 years building FleetBoston into an extremely valuable company for its customers, employees, shareholders and community,'' a Bank of America spokeswoman, Alexandra Trower, said. ''As chairman, he was actively involved in ensuring the success of the Bank of America merger into the Northeast. Going forward, he will continue to serve on the company's board of directors and will consult with the company on its significant civic and philanthropic activities in New England.''
 Robert Stickler, a spokesman for Bank of America, said that the bank had gone to great lengths to provide ample information on senior executives' retirement packages -- including financial tables that break out and quantify post-employment payments -- and that those agreements are in the company's public filings. ''We think the disclosure is pretty transparent and pretty thorough,'' he said.
 He also said that Mr. Gifford's retirement benefits were disclosed in a federal filing in March last year, in addition to a disclosure that Bank of America made last month. The more recent disclosure, however, had dollar figures directly linked with the benefits, something largely missing from the earlier filing. A clear and concise portrait of Mr. Gifford's retirement package was apparent only after he was already heading out the door; earlier disclosures required anyone reading them to connect a number of financial dots.
 Equilar Inc., a compensation research firm in San Mateo, Calif., that was asked by Sunday Business to examine the retirement packages of Mr. Gifford and several other former Bank of America executives, said that the quality of the bank's disclosures had improved recently, but that those of earlier years had required quite a bit of homework and interpretation. Mr. Stickler attributed the previous murkiness to the large number of mergers that Bank of America has orchestrated over the years.
 Buried amid those Bank of America mergers, however, were some sweet retirement deals. In 1998, David A. Coulter, who agreed to let NationsBank acquire his company, the BankAmerica Corporation, to form Bank of America, got a new employment contract in exchange for trading in his chief executive's title for the lesser role of president.
 Mr. Coulter, 50 at the time, was promised a new retirement package that included annual pension payments equal to 95 percent of his 1997 salary and bonus at BankAmerica -- making him eligible to receive annual payments of $4.98 million from his retirement until his death. His wife was eligible to receive $3.7 million annually until her own death if Mr. Coulter died before her. Under his previous contract, Mr. Coulter's pension was worth $810,153 a year. 
 His retirement would come quickly. Six months after the merger was announced, he resigned from Bank of America as the company's performance started to lag, and began receiving benefits. 
 Mr. Coulter did not stay on the golf course after his departure, however. He soon popped up at a financial advisory firm, and in 2000 joined J.P. Morgan Chase, where he ran the company's retail bank and took on other responsibilities. He was recently reassigned to oversee J.P. Morgan's West Coast operations, and a spokesman said Mr. Coulter has no plans to retire -- again. 
 Analysts say the issue of bounteous retirement pay goes beyond mere disclosure. The size of the payouts, they say, reflects a lack of vigilance on the part of corporate boards that are supposed to negotiate and monitor the packages.
 ''Mr. Gifford will be paid $3.1 million per year for sitting on the bench until he dies,'' wrote Richard X. Bove, an analyst at Punk, Ziegel & Company, a research firm in New York, in a recent note to investors. ''Then his wife, who presumably has provided valuable services to Bank of America, will be paid $2.3 million per year until she dies. One can only wonder at the amounts of money, perks, and stock being offered to players who have been benched some time ago at Bank of America and who never really provided service to the company (unless, of course one wants to argue that FleetBoston's performance under Mr. Gifford's tutelage demonstrated solid management skills). The meaning of all of this is that shareholders may never get an even break from company boards of directors intent on paying off whomever.'' 
 Before Mr. Gifford's and Mr. Raines's retirement packages drew scrutiny, the most notable retirement pay dust-up was in 2002, when John F. Welch Jr., General Electric's former chief executive, was embroiled in a nasty divorce dispute. His wife's lawyers filed court papers detailing Mr. Welch's previously undisclosed retirement perks. Among the benefits was the use of a pricey Manhattan apartment owned by G.E., including wine, food, laundry services, toiletries and newspapers. Mr. Welch also received free New York Knicks basketball tickets, seats at the U.S. Open, and satellite television at four homes he owned. 
 After the perks spilled into public view, Mr. Welch, who had led G.E. through years of robust annual growth before his retirement in 2001, defended his right to the benefits. He said that he believed he had negotiated fairly for them with G.E., but that the publicity had convinced him to assume some of those costs himself. 
 Last September, G.E. settled charges by the S.E.C. that the company had failed to adequately disclose Mr. Welch's retirement benefits. The commission said that the undisclosed value of the benefits totaled about $2.5 million in just the first year after Mr. Welch retired, but that investors had little way of finding or deciphering that information. As part of the settlement, G.E. agreed to improve its disclosure practices.
 The term ''golden parachute'' entered the popular lexicon in the 1980's, during a wave of corporate takeovers. The parachutes were lucrative severance payments that corporate boards instituted for chief executives whose tenures were threatened by imminent takeovers of their companies. 
 In earlier times, analysts said, chief executives often had year-to-year contracts, and when an executive left or retired, appropriate severance was determined after an informal, chummy board review. The takeover boom changed that culture and brought about the heavily promoted notion of super-C.E.O.'s: singular, all-knowing, uniquely talented leaders who, given the right incentives, could turn any lagging company into a dynamo. 
 In theory, golden parachutes were meant to ensure that executives would stay focused on their managerial knitting and would not be swayed by raiders who were dangling fat takeover prices in front of them. In practice, critics say, the packages were boardroom jackpots that offered big payoffs for a job poorly done.
 AMONG the first headline-grabbers were golden parachutes strapped to the backs of William M. Agee and 43 other executives in the midst of a 1982 takeover battle between the Bendix Corporation and Martin Marietta. Mr. Agee, the chairman of Bendix, was given a parachute that looks somewhat quaint now: $805,000 a year for five years. In 1983, after months of corporate jockeying, AlliedSignal swooped into the picture and bought Bendix. Mr. Agee departed with a $5 million severance payment.
 Mr. Agee's package, and others like it, spurred Congress to enact a new law imposing an excise tax on golden parachutes. If a departing executive's severance pay was more than three times his or her average annual compensation over the previous five years, an excise tax of 20 percent of the entire package would have to be paid. 
 ''This didn't put the brakes on severance at all,'' said Carol Bowie, a research director at the Investor Responsibility Research Center, an organization in Washington that tracks corporate governance issues. ''In fact, it spurred the practice of awarding the severance agreements and legitimized the whole concept of formal severance arrangements.'' 
 Boards also found ways around the limitations. To blunt the excise-tax hurdle, they added ''gross up'' provisions to contracts that reimbursed executives for their extra tax payments. 
 Another round of compensation criticism, in the late 1980's and early 90's, resulted in regulatory requirements mandating clear, tabular disclosure of salary, stock and option grants to corporate executives -- but not their retirement packages. But analysts said that richer, undisclosed retirement pay came into vogue in the early to mid-1990's as an attempt to circumvent the harsh glare of the compensation tables. In the merger boom of the 1990's, generous retirement pay emerged as a tool for takeover artists to seduce chief executives of targets, analysts said. So the curtain rose on a period of large payouts, even to executives who failed to deliver on goals after mergers.
 In 2001, Michael Bonsignore retired early as the chief executive of Honeywell International after presiding over a postmerger string of restructuring charges and earnings warnings that disappointed analysts and caused the company's stock price to plummet. According to the Corporate Library, a research group in Portland, Me., Mr. Bonsignore's retirement haul included a $9 million cash payment, which amounted to about three times his annual salary and bonus, as well as an annual pension of $1.7 million. Honeywell also forked over a $5.2 million ''retirement enhancement payment'' to Mr. Bonsignore and forgave about $350,000 in interest payments on loans he owed to the company.
 Other nonmonetary retirement benefits began cropping up in the 1990's. Among the most popular were an office, a secretary and free flight time on company aircraft, usually granted in exchange for a nominal consulting contract. While federal regulators require companies to disclose the types of nonmonetary benefits they give to their top five departing executives, they are not obligated to state the cost of the benefits or even describe them extensively. 
 Last August, the S.E.C. also required companies to disclose the value of a retirement package as soon as a top executive left. But companies do not have to provide more elaborate disclosure in the years before an executive heads for the exits. 
 As the backlash against huge excessive pay gained momentum in the last few years, disclosed compensation has appeared to moderate. Paul Hodgson, a compensation analyst at the Corporate Library, said that in 2001, about 60 percent of the companies in the S.&P. 500 awarded departing executives with three years of salary, plus bonuses and benefits. In 2004, he said, less than 40 percent of those companies offered the three-year packages. 
 Nonetheless, in a 2003 study he conducted of golden parachutes, Mr. Hodgson also found that chief executives who departed from S.&P. 500 companies in 2001 and 2002 received $16.5 million in severance, on average. Undisclosed retirement benefits did not figure into the mix. 
 Some specialists say that criticism of pay practices is unwarranted. ''There is a tendency now to take a more democratic approach and give senior management severance based on the same formula as everyone else in the company,'' said Doug Matthews, an executive vice president at Right Management Consultants, a Philadelphia firm that advises clients on pay issues. 
 Others, however, say excess is still a problem. For example, they point to Home Depot, the retail giant. According to the Corporate Library, Robert L. Nardelli, who has been Home Depot's chief executive since December 2000, is to receive a $20 million payment if he loses his job without cause. If and when he departs, he is also eligible to receive stock and deferred compensation worth about $48.7 million -- a handsome retirement package for a relative newcomer to the company. 
 Home Depot would also forgive the principal and interest on a $10 million loan to Mr. Nardelli, who received a salary and bonus of $6.5 million in 2003. The company said in its most recent proxy statement that Mr. Nardelli's deferred compensation account had been set up to replace retirement benefits he forfeited when he left G.E. to join Home Depot. But company securities filings do not detail the value of the G.E. benefits he gave up nor the value and interest rate guaranteed on the deferred-compensation account, which appears to be worth tens of millions of dollars. A Home Depot spokesman declined to comment.
 Critics of big retirement pay say that in addition to greater disclosure, more voices should be heard when executive contracts are drafted. ''Most of these contracts don't have to be approved by shareholders,'' said Oliver Hart, a Harvard Law School professor specializing in contract economics. ''Usually, only the board is involved. It might be useful to have severance contracts, and C.E.O. compensation more generally, approved by shareholders.''
 Analysts said Fannie Mae never detailed all the elements of Mr. Raines retirement payout until his departure was announced last month. The retirement benefits tally sheet that Fannie released was an unusual document, one that analysts said more companies should use -- and well before senior executives hit the road.
 In addition to the $1.4 million in annual pension payments that are headed Mr. Raines's way, he is also owed $8.7 million in deferred compensation. Mr. Raines, 55, has vested options for 1.6 million Fannie Mae shares, options for 368,800 shares for which he becomes eligible upon retirement and a $5 million life insurance policy that converts to a $2.5 million benefit after age 60.
 EVEN now, though, not all of Mr. Raines's retirement perks are fully disclosed in public filings. Professor Fried at the University of California said that Mr. Raines's deferred compensation account would continue to accumulate tax-free and that Fannie Mae would give him an undisclosed ''market return'' on the money, according to a payout schedule that lasts until 2020. 
 Moreover, Fannie Mae itself pays a corporate tax on the income it must generate to keep funding Mr. Raines's deferred account -- thereby continuing to subsidize the former chief executive's pension plan even after he has left the company. Deferred-compensation accounts have drawn special criticism from analysts, who have said that the funds accumulate outsized, guaranteed returns that fatten executives' wallets, deplete corporate resources and are unavailable to average company employees.
 Analysts said Mr. Raines might have been more concerned about legal issues surrounding his departure than about the amount of cash he can take home. Retiring, rather than being fired, suggests less possible culpability in relation to Fannie Mae's accounting scandal, of no small import given that the Justice Department's investigation of the company could lead to criminal charges.
 ''The issue is more that they allowed him to take early retirement rather than fire him,'' said Mr. Hodgson, at the Corporate Library, of Mr. Raines's departure from Fannie Mae. ''You and I, of course, could live forever on what Raines is getting, but by comparison to other packages out there the money is not excessive and he's already earned most of it.''
 Comparing the expensive farewell to Mr. Raines to other recent retirement hauls is indeed instructive. Start with Hollywood, where Michael S. Ovitz received about $140 million when he resigned in 1995 after 14 months as president of the Walt Disney Company, prompting a high-profile shareholder lawsuit that continues today.
 Then there is Wall Street. In 2003, Richard A. Grasso retired as chairman of the New York Stock Exchange with a $139.5 million retirement and severance package that is also in dispute. Much of Mr. Grasso's payout was undisclosed until he left his post.
 ''These kinds of payments should be rarer than they are, and when they are used shareholders should have the right to approve them,'' said Elliot Schwartz, research director at the Council of Institutional Investors, a group in Washington that represents large pension fund investors. ''You want executives to be compensated and incentivized to perform for the company, but what's the point of paying somebody after they're gone?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: They'll all get more than a gold watch: clockwise from above, Franklin D. Raines, former chief executive of Fannie Mae
Sammy Sosa of the Chicago Cubs
Charles K. Gifford, chairman of Bank of America
Robert L. Nardelli, chief of Home Depot. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)
(Photo by Mike Appleton/Associated Press)
(Photo by Jonathan Daniel/Getty Images)
 (Photo by Jay Mallin/Bloomberg News)(pg. 6)Drawing (Illustration by Brad Hamann)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); SEVERANCE PAY (90%); MERGERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LITIGATION (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (75%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (75%); BUSINESS TORTS (73%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); ACCOUNTING (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); SCANDALS (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (56%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (50%) Executives and Management; Wages and Salaries; Retirement; Executives and Management

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (64%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (91%) Fannie Mae; Home Depot Inc; Bank of America

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (64%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (64%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: FRANK RAINES (87%); BOB NARDELLI (74%) Franklin D Raines; Robert L Nardelli; Charles K Gifford; Timothy L O'Brien

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (77%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (57%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); MAINE, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



188 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1950 words

HEADLINE: Rell's Treatment Highlights Hurdles For Screenings Faced by Many

BYLINE: By AVI SALZMAN

 BODY:
FOR Gov. M. Jodi Rell, breast cancer was a public battle before it became a personal one. Over the past decade Mrs. Rell, who was well enough after her breast cancer surgery on Dec. 27 to open the Legislature with her State of the State address on Wednesday, became personally involved in numerous efforts to encourage early detection and search for a cure. When she was lieutenant governor, she offered free mammograms at the Capitol every October and lobbied to create a check-off box on the state income tax form that allowed people to donate money to breast cancer research.
 But women with breast cancer, and the doctors who care for them, still have major concerns about mammography and breast cancer treatment in the state. The governor has been successful with improving breast cancer services, but many of the concerns facing practitioners and patients cannot be fixed in Mrs. Rell's office. Indeed, for numerous reasons, many women in the state cannot get the kind of treatment given the governor, advocates said
 ''That was an ideal situation: Jodi Rell was diagnosed and treated quickly,'' said Marilyn Moore, executive director of the Witness Project, which encourages black women to get mammograms. ''Every women should have the same speed of services. Right now, it's not available to everyone.'' 
 In recent years, women in Connecticut have been more likely than those in almost any other state to get breast cancer, making early detection particularly crucial. An American Cancer Society study that looked at data from 1996 to 2000 showed that the state had one of the highest incidence rates in the country, though breast cancer death rates were average. The high incidence rate could be caused by numerous factors, including the state's aging population and the concentration of groups at high risk for the disease, according to Dr. Carolyn Runowicz, the director of the Carole and Ray Neag Comprehensive Cancer Center at the University of Connecticut Health Center. The death rate statistics, she said, are encouraging.
 ''That's good, because that shows you that the quality of care is good in Connecticut,'' she said.
 But if breast cancer treatment, at least in terms of death rates, is strong in the state, detection is still a concern for doctors and treatment advocates. A mammogram, a kind of breast X-ray, is still the most common way to check women for irregularities, doctors said, but it isn't easily available to everyone.
 The number of offices offering mammograms in Connecticut continues to decline, from 166 on Jan. 1, 2000 to 140 last month, according to the federal Food and Drug Administration. It is part of a nationwide trend, as the total number of certified centers offering mammograms has dropped from 9,558 on Jan. 1, 2000, to 8,999 last month. The numbers of centers has been decreasing for at least a decade. In 1994, 10,119 were authorized by the F.D.A. to offer mammograms. So as the demand for mammograms increases, spurred by aggressive outreach efforts and a change in the recommended age for a first mammogram from 50 to 40, women have had to wait longer to get the procedure done, doctors said. And the people needed to take and review the X-rays are leaving the field, or choosing specialties with less oversight and lower malpractice premiums, doctors said.
 It is hard to gauge the severity of the problem of long waits for mammograms, waits that some doctors said can discourage women from making an appointment. Doctors and technicians interviewed for this article said they had heard of offices where the wait for a mammogram was at least two months, but at their own offices the waiting period was never more than a few weeks. Generally, doctors said, the waiting periods are still a problem, but not as much as they were a few years ago.
 Heather Gilligan, the head technician at Hartford Hospital's Breast Diagnostic Center, said women seem to prefer the smaller doctor's offices for mammograms. The hospital has no waiting list for mammograms, she said, and women can generally make same-day appointments, but they choose instead to go to offices where they may have to wait months for an appointment. Women simply prefer a comfortable, quiet office to have a procedure as nerve-wracking as a mammogram. ''Patients just don't like coming to a hospital for a mammogram,'' she said. ''They don't want a hospital setting, which seems sort of sterile and cold.''
 Dr. Judy Destouet, the chairwoman of the American College of Radiology's Mammography Accreditation Commission, said the procedure is often a money-loser in the short run. Her Virginia-based organization represents about 30,000 radiologists, radiation oncologists and clinical medical physicists.
 But the more efficiently doctors run their mammography offices, the more money they can expect to make from the procedure, doctors said. Providers make about $4 on each mammogram, said Ms. Gilligan of Hartford Hospital.
 Dr. Edward Cronin, director of breast imaging at Jefferson X-Ray Group, which has offices in the Hartford area, said he had spent the past year and a half trying to make his office efficient to increase the number of mammograms technicians can process in a day. By his calculations, Jefferson X-Ray has reduced the time patients wait for an appointment. In 2003, the five offices were doing 115 to 125 mammograms a day. Now, 200 women are able to get mammograms every day. The wait for an appointment used to be three to six weeks, but it has been cut to about two weeks or less, he said. 
 ''The big issue for us is to accommodate all people who want mammograms and have enough personnel so we can do it efficiently,'' he said.
 Dr. Cronin said insurance companies reimburse anywhere from $70 to $110 for mammograms. Congress raised the Medicare reimbursement rate for mammograms from $69 to $81.81 in 2001, but hasn't raised it since, and insurance companies often look to the government to determine whether to raise or lower reimbursement rates, doctors said. To make ends meet, some doctors said, volume is key. It can be hard for new providers to break into the field, because the cost of the equipment is high, Dr. Cronin said.
 ''You can cover expenses, but it takes a lot of money up front,'' Dr. Cronin said. ''It is not a well-reimbursed procedure unless you work very hard at trying to be very efficient at doing it.''
 Keith Stover, a lobbyist for the Connecticut Association of Health Plans, which represents eight health insurers in the state, said doctors needed to negotiate with the insurers if they are concerned about reimbursement. Mammography, he added, is not a procedure health insurers take lightly.
 ''Early detection is something we consider essential,'' he said. Doctors also said they were concerned about the rate of malpractice lawsuits against breast cancer specialists who fail to diagnose tumors after studying a mammogram. Reading a mammogram is notoriously difficult. Different doctors, studies have found, often come to different conclusions about the same mammogram. And mammograms aren't fail-safe; the cancer didn't show up on Mrs. Rell's routine mammogram, but came up during a biopsy of another non-cancerous calcium deposit that was discovered in the mammogram.
 New digital technology has made the process a bit more precise, said Dr. Cronin of Jefferson X-Ray, by allowing doctors to magnify high-resolution digital images and giving doctors a better view.
 Still, ''malignant neoplasms of the female breast'' generated the most malpractice claims against members of the Physician Insurers Association of America, a trade association for doctor-owned malpractice insurers, since the organization began collecting such figures in 1985. Payouts to plaintiffs average more than $200,000, according to the association. That organization, along with many breast cancer specialists and radiologists, is advocating for caps on payouts in malpractice cases.
 The industry cited malpractice and reimbursement concerns, and the overall stress, to explain why radiology residents shy away from mammography. According to a study conducted by Dr. Lawrence Bassett at U.C.L.A. in 2003, 87 percent of the radiology residents he surveyed said they considered mammography to be the most stressful kind of imaging to interpret. Even the technicians who administer the X-rays, nearly all of whom are women, are difficult to find, Dr. Cronin said. 
 ''There's definitely a shortage in technologists trained in mammography,'' said Dr. Howard Lee, a radiologist with Northeast Radiology of Connecticut and Westchester, N.Y. ''It's a more stressful job than, for instance, shooting X-rays of kids' ankles.'' Doctors said the job is difficult because technicians deal with women under particularly high stress, the job is technically demanding and the technicians have few breaks during the day.
 Dr. Cronin said some of his technicians left the field to raise families, so he pays them to come back in the evenings to conduct mammograms.
 These sorts of economic and personnel challenges have changed the industry in fundamental ways. As more small mammography practices go out of business, the field is increasingly being dominated by larger mammography practices that can generate a high enough volume of mammograms to make money, Dr. Destouet said.
 Even as some offices close, others, including those dedicated to serving the poor, are opening. Various organizations have tried to increase the availability of mammograms in the state. Using money from its annual Swim Across the Sound charity event, the St. Vincent's Foundation in Bridgeport recently opened the Women's Imaging Center, which offers digital mammograms, ultrasound and bone-density testing.
 Women who make appointments at the imaging center have been waiting about two weeks for screenings, said Ron Bianchi, president of the St. Vincent's Foundation and corporate senior vice president of the St. Vincent's Health Services.
 The federal Centers for Disease Control and the state finance a $3 million program called the Connecticut Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program. The program, available at 18 centers around the state and managed by the Department of Public Health, offers free mammograms and other services to women who are uninsured or underinsured.
 Women are less likely to be screened if they are poor, said Susan Davis, the president of the Connecticut Breast Cancer Coalition and Foundation. Single women raising children often fear getting mammograms, because if they have a tumor, they can't afford the treatment, Ms. Davis said.
 ''Once you've been screened, you have a pre-existing condition,'' she said. ''Then I don't know how you would go about getting insurance.''
 Hospital officials said they would help patients who qualify get Medicaid or free or reduced treatment. But Ms. Davis said a woman who is a household's sole breadwinner often can't afford to take time off. The number of visits can become prohibitively expensive, even if the patient has insurance and is simply paying co-pays, she said. Ms. Davis's coalition acts as a network for patients and survivors and offers various services, including a fund that can help people stay afloat financially as they deal with the disease. 
 ''I'm sitting here with people's heat bills,'' she said. ''This can be a very expensive disease.''
 With the governor recovering from surgery, people in the state are talking about breast cancer these days, Ms. Davis said. There's hope in that.
 ''This sort of underscores a lot of issues that every woman goes through and people don't generally think about these issues,'' she said. ''I hope this will raise some of the issues we've been working on for a long time.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Tammy Sachkowsky, in blue jacket, of the UConn Health Center giving a mammogram to a patient. Above, Dr. Bipin Jagjivan looking at X-rays. (Photographs by C.M. Glover for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Dr. Bipin Jagjivan studying film of a patient's mammogram.
 Tammy Sachkowsky cleaning the equipment. Some centers give more than 100 mammograms a day. (Photographs by C.M. Glover for The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BREAST CANCER (96%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (92%); CANCER (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); ONCOLOGY (90%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (86%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (86%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WOMEN (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LOBBYING (77%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (77%); TRENDS (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); AGING TRENDS (64%); INCOME TAX (55%); AGING (50%) Cancer; Breast; Blacks; Mammography; Cancer

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (54%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (93%) M Jodi (Gov) Rell; Marilyn Moore; Avi Salzman

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Connecticut 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



189 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Nation: 2042 and All That; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Untangling the Debate on Social Security

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
PRESIDENT BUSH has put an overhaul of Social Security at the top of his domestic priority list, proposing that workers be allowed to divert part of their payroll taxes into private accounts that could be invested in stocks and bonds. 
 In doing so, he has ignited what is shaping up to be the most intensive partisan battle of the year. It can also be migraine-inducing in its complexity. Take two aspirin and study the following.

Q. People are throwing around doomsday years for Social Security. Is it really running out of money?

A. Not any time soon. The system currently takes in far more in payroll taxes than it needs to pay benefits, and will keep doing so for years to come.
 But eventually there will be a problem. People are living longer and baby boomers will start reaching retirement age soon, so the financial strains on the system are set to grow very sharply. 
 The first date to care about is 2018, when Social Security will probably begin paying out more than it takes in. But experts at the Social Security Administration have calculated that the system, by drawing on a trust fund that, on paper, is the recipient of today's surpluses, will be able to keep paying full promised benefits for another 24 years after that, until 2042. 
 The trust fund, though, is not cash in a bank. Successive Congresses and administrations have used the money to pay for general government spending, leaving the fund with nothing more than a promise to pay it back eventually. To make good on that promise, the government will have to reduce other spending, raise taxes or borrow more money.

Q. Would Mr. Bush's plan for private accounts solve that problem?

A. By itself, probably not, though some Republicans say that if the accounts are large enough, their returns might wipe away the problem.
 The White House is already signaling that it is also likely to embrace a substantial reduction in the growth of guaranteed benefits for future retirees, a position many Democrats are attacking and many Republicans are distancing themselves from. 
 Advocates of the personal accounts say that because stocks and bonds have historically generated attractive returns, workers will be able to build tidy nest eggs in the accounts, more than making up for reductions in benefits. But setting them up could entail hundreds of billions or even trillions of dollars in new government borrowing, a prospect that many economists think will upset the financial markets.

Q. Will Americans be better off under the new system?

A. No one can say for certain. Because stock and bond markets can fluctuate a great deal from year to year, even though they have yielded reliable gains over the long run, people could do much better or much worse than average, depending on when they happen to retire. And there is no guarantee that historical market trends will hold true in coming decades.
 White House officials argue that, at least for younger workers and succeeding generations, the new proposals should be compared not with what the current system promises in benefits for future retirees, but with what the system will be able to pay after the trust fund runs out. Remember those annual statements you get in the mail from Social Security telling you how much you will receive in benefits when you retire? According to Social Security's actuaries, after 2042, if no changes are made to the system, Americans will get less than three-quarters of what has been promised to them.

Q. Social Security is supposed to be the ''third rail'' of politics, fatal to those who tamper with it. What has changed?

A. Maybe nothing. President Bush has run and won twice on platforms calling for establishing personal investment accounts. His advisers are confident that Americans are open to change and that younger workers in particular are eager for the chance to invest some Social Security taxes in stocks and bonds.
 But now that it is becoming clear that Mr. Bush's plan will probably include cuts in scheduled benefits and large-scale government borrowing, the politics are getting complicated. Overwhelmingly, Democrats are lining up to oppose Mr. Bush. Republicans in Congress, especially in the House, are reluctant to proceed without lots of cover from the White House and at least a veneer of bipartisanship. Mr. Bush could win a big victory, but he could also get a nasty jolt. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BONDS (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); TRENDS (77%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); BABY BOOMERS (68%) Social Security (US)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (55%)

PERSON: Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



190 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-11

The Election Process in Iraq
The Bush administration decision to set up one nationwide vote for a new national assembly in Iraq, rather than elections by districts and provinces, has come back to haunt officials. With only a national election being held, at a time when the insurgency is likely to depress voter turnout in Sunni areas of the country, the results may be far from representative. 8

Insurgents killed at least five people in Iraq, but the American military announced that it had captured a third top commander of a militant group linked to Al Qaeda. 8

Accusations in Kidnapping Case
A Lebanese man alleges that he was kidnapped by the Macedonian authorities, turned over to officials he believed were from the United States, and flown to a prison in Afghanistan. There, he says, he was shackled, abused and accused of having ties to Al Qaeda. 1

Preparing for Palestinian Vote
Israel said it was easing travel restrictions as promised in advance of the Palestinian presidential election. But Palestinians said they saw only limited evidence that checkpoints and other obstacles were being removed. Despite the latest dispute, both sides said they believed the election should go relatively smoothly. 4

Continuing Tsunami Aftermath
Health specialists say that Sri Lanka averted a medical disaster by setting up camps quickly and running them well, particularly in providing clean drinking water. But now the local medical staff is tired and overwhelmed. Some staff members have died, clinics were wiped out and vehicles were destroyed. 10

Oil-for-Food Program Criticized
Internal United Nations audits of the so-called oil-for-food program in Iraq criticize the office for failing to adequately supervise and audit the companies hired to inspect the oil moving out of Iraq and goods going in under the program. 1

NATIONAL 12-20

Scrutiny for Rail Tank Cars
In wake of Thursday's crash in South Carolina, federal authorities have been working with railroads and the chemical industry to improve security for trains. But there is still much to be done, particularly given the structural weaknesses of many tank cars, current and former federal officials say. 1

Bush Seeks Curb in Benefits
In his budget request to Congress, President Bush will try to impose firm, enforceable limits on the growth of federal benefit programs, and the chairmen of the Senate and House Budget Committees said they strongly supported that effort. 17

President Bush named two former senators to head a bipartisan advisory panel on tax reform, and gave the group six months to come up with recommendations on how to make the income tax simpler, fairer and more conducive to growth. 17

A Longer Wait for Jobless
Even though overall unemployment dropped last year, the share of unemployed workers who have been jobless for more than six months -- the point at which most state benefits run out -- has remained historically high. 14

SPORTS SP1-12

Jets Advance with O.T. Win
The Jets advanced to the American Football Conference divisional playoffs with a 20-17 overtime win against the San Diego Chargers. SP1

NEW YORK/REGION 23-29

Push to Revamp Medicaid
Gov. George E. Pataki's advisers are pressing him to support the Bush administration's efforts to establish new limits on the federal Medicaid program as a means of revamping the state's program. 23

Neediest Cases 28

Chess 28
Weather 31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); TRAINS (88%); BULK SHIPPING (86%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (86%); BUDGETS (84%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (71%); TSUNAMIS (66%); TAX LAW (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%); TAX REFORM (60%); CHEMICALS (50%); CHEMICALS MFG (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



191 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Bush Names 2 Ex-Senators To Consider Tax Changes

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
President Bush on Friday named two well-known former senators to head a bipartisan advisory panel on taxes, and gave the group six months to come up with recommendations on how to make the income tax simpler, fairer and more conducive to growth.
 The panel's chairman will be Connie Mack III, a former Republican senator from Florida, and its vice chairman will be John B. Breaux, the former Democratic senator from Louisiana who decided not to run for re-election last year.
 Mr. Bush pledged in his election campaign to seek a fundamental overhaul of the income tax, and many Republicans would like to replace today's complex code with a consumption tax or a flat tax that essentially taxes money people spend rather than the money they save or invest. 
 The panel Mr. Bush named Friday consists almost entirely of people who have never staked out public positions on the best approach to overhauling the tax code. Neither Mr. Mack nor Mr. Breaux championed a particular approach to taxes, though Mr. Mack was a strong supporter of tax cuts. Mr. Breaux, a conservative Democrat, frequently tried to work as a broker between the two parties on tax issues and is best known as a cagey dealmaker.
 Republicans with ties to the administration were divided about whether Mr. Bush is serious about pushing ahead with changing the tax code, which would almost certainly ignite a prolonged lobbying battle in Congress involving armies of interest groups.
 Mr. Bush greatly dampened expectations of radical tax overhaul when he said at the Republican convention that any tax overhaul would have to protect incentives for home-buying -- the biggest deduction in the tax code is for mortgage interest -- and for charitable contributions.
 That effectively eliminated the possibility of replacing the income tax with a national sales tax -- an idea favored by the House speaker, J. Dennis Hastert -- or a flat income tax that would lower most tax rates while eliminating tax breaks.
 ''They have essentially taken fundamental tax reform off the table by promising to protect two of the largest deductions,'' said Bruce Bartlett, an economist at the National Center for Policy Analysis and a former Treasury official under President Ronald Reagan.
 White House officials have made it clear that their top priority is to overhaul the Social Security program, moving people away from a system of government-guaranteed benefits to one based increasingly on personal savings accounts.
 Republicans with ties to the White House predict that Mr. Bush will ultimately push for seemingly incremental changes that have the same economic impact as a consumption tax. That strategy would call for a big expansion of savings accounts that would shield from taxes all the investment income that people earn from their deposits. Companies would be allowed to immediately write off their investment in plants and new equipment, while losing their tax deductions for interest costs. Tax rates might be collapsed down to just two brackets, with big exclusions for people with low incomes.
 In addition to Mr. Mack and Mr. Breaux, the panel's members will be Bill Frenzel, a retired Republican congressman from Minnesota and a political centrist; Elizabeth Garrett, a law professor at the University of Southern California who was a tax counsel to David L. Boren, the former Democratic senator from Oklahoma; Timothy Muris, former chairman of the Federal Trade Commission under Mr. Bush; Edward P. Lazear, a professor of labor economics at Stanford University; James M. Poterba, a professor of tax economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Charles O. Rossotti, a former commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service; and Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (99%); TAX LAW (93%); TAX REFORM (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SALES TAX (89%); LOBBYING (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); CHARITIES (73%) Taxation; Election Issues; Taxation

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); CONNIE MACK (79%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush; Connie III Mack; John B Breaux

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



192 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Westchester; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: White Plains Office Market Perks Up

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS 

 BODY:
DISPOSING of an investment that certainly does not rank among its most successful, MetLife, the insurance giant, has sold White Plains Plaza, a two-building, 712,131-square-foot office complex in the central business district here. The price was $60 million, less than half of what the insurer paid for the property more than 15 years ago. MetLife tried unsuccessfully to sell the site two and a half years ago, when one of the buildings was largely vacant. 
 The buyer is Heyman Properties of Westport, Conn., making its first acquisition of office space in Westchester County. The foray by Heyman into White Plains is seen by many as confirming a more significant role for the city in the suburban office market around Manhattan. 
 ''White Plains is a percolating market these days,'' said Adam Popper, chief financial officer for Heyman Properties, which owns about 4.3 million square feet of commercial space in the northeastern United States, including hotels, shopping centers and office buildings. 
 ''The city has the right demographics, a pro-real-estate and pro-business government, and a strong retail base,'' Mr. Popper said. ''All that coupled with a major surge of rental and condominium development begins to feel like the right elements for success.'' In Westchester, Heyman's only other holding is the Crossroads Shopping Center in Greenburgh, which it owns jointly with Acadia Realty.
 In addition to the two 15-story buildings at White Plains Plaza -- 445 Hamilton Avenue and One North Broadway -- the complex includes a large stone courtyard, with steps leading down to Main Street, where intense retail and residential development is taking place.
 The Hamilton Avenue building, which does not have an entrance on Main Street, was the headquarters of Prodigy Services, the online pioneer, for about a decade, until the company moved out during the 1990's. It remained mostly vacant until last year, when the building was upgraded and new tenants began moving in.
 Next door to the complex and facing Main Street, a building occupied by Sears Roebuck for 37 years is being renovated for Wal-Mart, which expects to move in within a year. Ivy Equities of Montvale, N.J., and Barrow Street Capital, a pension fund adviser in New York, took over Sears's lease in the spring of 2003. In a 66-year leasehold agreement for $13.75 million, the investors gained use of the building and an adjoining six-floor parking garage, both owned by MetLife.
 Diagonally across Main Street from White Plains Plaza, the developer Louis Cappelli has built a sprawling retail, residential and entertainment complex, including a condominium tower that he is developing with Donald J. Trump. A block away, Mr. Cappelli has broken ground on another complex with more luxury residences and a hotel.
 The office vacancy rate for the city's central business district at the end of 2004 dropped to 14.9 percent, from 18.7 percent a year earlier, according to figures from Cushman & Wakefield, the real estate services company.
 Commercial real estate agents attributed the uptick in office rentals to the confluence of new people moving into city apartments and condos, and the new retail activity. The current economic upswing follows a fallow period in the 1990's, when several large corporations downsized or moved away and the office vacancy rate soared above 20 percent.
 MetLife acquired White Plains Plaza in 1989 for a reported $125 million, just before the commercial real estate market toppled and the city entered a slump, said Glenn P. Walsh, a senior director for Cushman & Wakefield, which represented MetLife in the recent sale. After Prodigy moved out, 445 Hamilton Avenue remained mostly empty, with the insurer occupying only a small portion of it. When MetLife tried to market the property two and a half years ago, ''the offers came in so low that they withdrew it from the market,'' he said. 
 That building is now about three-fourths occupied, and the building on North Broadway, which has a restaurant on the first floor and a health club on the second, has been close to fully occupied over the years.
 Many of the same developers that bid two and a half years ago came back to bid on White Plains Plaza when it was offered again late last year. ''Some of those who were interested in the property before couldn't believe the changes in the city in just a few years,'' Mr. Walsh said. ''What developers are finally waking up to is the fact that there are very good roads around here, great train service and prices are cheaper.''
 White Plains is just off Interstate 287 and the Bronx River Parkway, and service on the Metro-North Railroad from the White Plains station to Grand Central Terminal takes about 35 minutes during rush hour. 
 Annual rents for Class A office space in the central business district are in the high $20's to low $30's per square foot. By comparison, in Greenwich rents for comparable space are $70 per square foot and more; in Stamford, they are in the low to mid-$30's.
 Mr. Popper at Heyman Properties said his company would focus its development efforts on upgrading One North Broadway, whose tenants include Nextel Communications and the law firm Jackson Lewis.
 The tenants at 445 Hamilton Avenue include the Lillian Vernon Corporation, the catalog company, and the law firm Keane & Beane. Annual rents at 445 Hamilton, however, are below those in comparable buildings in White Plains: low to mid-$20's a square foot. 
 While considered a Class A building, it was one of the last of its vintage in the city to undergo major updating, and the low rents were offered as an enticement to businesses when office space became available again last year, said Frank Boccanfuso, managing partner of FMB Real Estate Services in White Plains. ''Heyman acquired these buildings at an opportunistic price, catching the city in an upswing,'' he said. 
 Heyman is acquiring the complex during a period of low interest rates, which according to Carl Austin, the president of Austin Corporate Properties, a consulting and brokerage firm in Rye Brook, ''was another critical factor.''
 ''If mortgage payments are too high, and the bubble bursts and the vacancy rate goes up, it can be dangerous for a building owner,'' said Mr. Austin, who has brokered deals in White Plains over the years.
 Mr. Boccanfuso noted, ''As we've seen in White Plains, real estate can be a fickle business.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: DOWNTOWN REVIVAL -- White Plains Plaza -- One North Broadway, left, and 445 Hamilton Avenue -- has a large stone courtyard with steps to Main Street. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (92%); INSURANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); PROPERTY LEASES (76%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (75%); SUBURBS (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (70%); EXECUTIVES (53%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Renting and Leasing

COMPANY: METLIFE INC (94%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: heyman properties; Metlife Inc

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (94%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (94%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (94%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (52%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (79%) Elsa Brenner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (79%) White Plains (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



193 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 1-09-05:; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Must Peace Wait for Democracy?

BYLINE: By Leon Wieseltier. 
Leon Wieseltier is literary editor of The New Republic.

 BODY:
On June 24, 2002, President Bush propounded a new foundation for Palestinian statehood. ''I call on the Palestinian people to elect new leaders, not compromised by terror,'' he said. ''I call upon them to build a practicing democracy, based on tolerance and liberty. If the Palestinian people actively pursue these goals, America and the world will actively support their efforts.'' Neither Palestinian nationalism nor Palestinian suffering any longer justified the political enfranchisement of the Palestinians. Instead the Palestinian question was folded tidily into the Bush administration's catechism about democracy, which it has raised into the solution to all of the world's significant problems. Tyranny, terrorism, poverty, disease: the administration's answer to all these evils is elections. About the moral and political superiority of democracy, and about the disqualification of terrorists from politics and diplomacy, the president was correct; but there was something doctrinal, even magical, about his formula. ''Market economics'' in Gaza? 
 The idea that peace between Israelis and Palestinians must await the establishment of Palestinian democracy has been the work of idealists and cynics. The idealists believe, rightly, that the most lasting peace will very likely be a peace between democracies, and they believe, wrongly, that the cause of Palestinian misery, and therefore of Palestinian radicalism, has been the absence of open and pluralistic institutions. ''The road to peace is paved with freedom,'' Natan Sharansky, the former Soviet dissident who now serves in the Israeli government, observes rather ahistorically in his new book ''The Case for Democracy,'' an exercise in right-wing dogmatics. ''The Palestinians lived under Israeli rule for a quarter century. But after less than a decade under Arafat's regime, their hatred toward Israel is higher than at any time in the past. Why? Because a fear society has descended on the Palestinians.'' 
 I am not sure that this apotheosis of anti-Israeli sentiment is confirmed by recent Palestinian polls, which suggest a growing exhaustion with terrorism and its consequences, but it is a little perverse to suggest that Palestinian opposition to Israel is based primarily on something other than Israeli occupation of Palestinian lands that Israel captured in a war of self-defense in 1967. (There is also Palestinian opposition to Israel's very existence, but all the democracy in the world will not mitigate it.) Yasir Arafat was hardly the only leader of a nationalist movement who ruled his downtrodden masses dictatorially. No, where Arafat most darkly distinguished himself in his field, where he most viciously betrayed his people, was in his refusal to rise from violence to statecraft. The view that his failure to make peace with Israel was owed to his failure to govern justly is refuted by Israel's experience with some of its neighboring regimes. The peace with autocratic Egypt is frigid, and Hosni Mubarak's use of anti-Semitism to divert the political energies of his population is disgusting, but the peace with Egypt is strong, and its chill is preferable to the fire of war. 
 For the cynics, the insistence that Palestinian democracy must precede Palestinian statehood was just a method of impeding progress toward a compromise that would require Israeli concessions. Arafat performed a great service for the Israeli (and American) right: his perfidy was a way to end the discussion. But now Arafat is no more -- where there is death, there is hope, as Maurice Bowra used to say -- and the discussion must resume. If they are not disfigured by intimidation and fraud, like Arafat's farcical landslide in 1996, the Palestinian elections of today will confer a refreshing legitimacy upon a Palestinian leadership.
 Yet there is no reason to think eschatologically about elections. This season of electoral excitement in Palestine, Iraq, Afghanistan and Ukraine must not simplify our understanding of political development. Elections are just one element in the epic of democracy. An independent judiciary, a free press, the existence of political parties: these may decide more. And what if the news is bad and the enemies of peace and freedom prosper in the elections? On Dec. 23, an alarming number of Hamas candidates prevailed in elections for Palestinian town councils. For many years now Palestinian society has been riven by a conflict between jihadists and modernists, and the election will more likely reflect this division than resolve it. 
 And then? The pace of Palestinian democratization will collide with the pace of Palestinian demographics. Democratization is a policy of destabilization, in which an entire political culture must be usurped, and so it demands time; yet one day between 2010 and 2015 there will be more Arabs than Jews between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean Sea. Will the Palestinians become Madisonians in less than 5 years, less than 10 years? Israel cannot wait for the vision's appointed hour: it must preserve its equilibrium as a democratic state and a Jewish state whatever the political proclivities of the Palestinians. Ariel Sharon's apparent transformation -- it really was he who declared in 2003 that ''the thought and idea that we can continue keeping under occupation (we might not like the word, but it is 'occupation') 3.5 million Palestinians is very bad for Israel, the Palestinians and Israel's economy'' -- may be imputed not least to his recent discovery of the power of the numbers. He cannot secure his country merely with the conviction that men and women everywhere deserve to be free. Anyway, philosophy is the beginning of what we need to know about democracy, not the end. 
 And there are the duties of the interim: if it is true that genocides and famines do not occur where governments are accountable, it is also true that genocides must meanwhile be stopped and starving people must meanwhile be fed. After so much savagery, coexistence must be pursued even in the absence of perfect democracy. The beauty of democracy must not blind us to its difficulty, and to its rarity. The best peace is not the only peace; and peace, too, is beautiful. 


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Rina Castelnuovo) Chart: ''PEACE PRECIPICE''Poll of 1,319 adults in West Bank and Gaza, Dec. 1-4, 200435 percent believe that Palestinians have come out winners in the ongoing armed conflict. 14 percent believe Israel came out a winner. 44 percent believe neither side came out a winner.The level of support for reconciliation between Israelis and Palestinians has never been higher, reaching 81 percent (compared with 75 percent in September), but 34 percent (compared with 47 percent) still believe that reconciliation is not possible ever. (Source: Palestinian Center for Policy and Survey Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (60%) Palestinians; Elections; Politics and Government

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Leon Wieseltier; George W (Pres) Bush; Natan (Min) Sharansky; Yasir (1929-2004) Arafat

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (79%) Israel; Israel

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005



194 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Bills Set For This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills tomorrow. Also on Wednesday and Thursday, respectively, 5-year and 10-year notes will be auctioned.
 At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 2.32 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 2.63 percent, and the four-week issue's was 2.01 percent. In when-issued trading, the five-year note was offered at a price to yield 3.71 percent, and the 10-year note was offered at a price to yield 4.27 percent. 
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TAX EXEMPT

TOMORROW
 Collier County, Fla., $174.5 million of refunding revenue bonds. Competitive.
 Guilford County, N.C., $56.6 million of refunding general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 New Mexico, $115.2 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Spring, Tex., Independent School District, $100 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 University of California Regents, $252.3 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.

WEDNESDAY
 Delaware, $125 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

THURSDAY
 Houston Independent School District, $193.3 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

TAX EXEMPT

ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 Arizona State University, $113 million of certificate of participations. Lehman Brothers.
 Grant County, Wash., Public Utility, $128 million of debt securities for Wanapum Hydro. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Louisiana, $650 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Nebraska Public Power District, $110 million of debt securities. Lehman Brothers.
 New Jersey Economic Development Authority, $700 million of school facility construction refunding bonds. UBS.
 New Jersey Housing and Mortgage Finance Agency, $200 million of multifamily housing bonds. UBS.
 Orange County, Calif., Water District, $86 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Oregon Department of Transportation, $55 million of debt securities. Bear, Stearns.
 Roaring Fork, Colo., School District; Garfield, Pitkin and Eagle Counties, Colo., $86 million of general obligation bonds. RBC Dain Rauscher.
 The Health and Education Facility, Tenn., $226 million of debt securities. Goldman, Sachs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); DEBT NOTES (89%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (86%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (69%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (68%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (66%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (63%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); NEBRASKA PUBLIC POWER DISTRICT (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: RY (TSX) (63%); RY (SWX) (63%); RY (NYSE) (63%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (63%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2005



195 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; E-Commerce Report; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: As American markets become saturated, Internet retailers are looking abroad.

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi

 BODY:
FIVE years ago, ProFlowers, an online florist based in San Diego, pumped $500,000 into market and technology research that would, the company hoped, help it move quickly into Europe and Japan. Within just a few months, staying in the United States market suddenly seemed much more appealing. 
 ''We naively assumed that everybody would look at the Internet and see it the same way,'' said Bill Strauss, chief executive of Provide Commerce, the parent company of ProFlowers. ''But consumer behavior was absolutely different.'' 
 This year, though, the company is joining the growing ranks of online businesses that are ready again to dip their toes into foreign waters, as sales growth in the American Internet market begins to slow. 
 Analysts and Internet executives who have experience with foreign retail operations, though, warn that such forays remain harder than they may appear. 
 ''For the most part, it's unbelievably difficult to go into another country,'' said Carrie Johnson, an analyst with the consultancy Forrester Research. ''But every major online retailer is now looking at internationalization as an engine of growth.''
 Ms. Johnson would not disclose the names of her Web-retailing clients that are considering foreign expansion, and most merchants are tight-lipped about such plans. But companies like eBags, Staples, Expedia and others are accelerating their foreign online efforts. 
 ProFlowers, which operates Web sites in foreign languages and passes along orders to merchants in those countries, will begin its expansion effort this year with test marketing in Canada. 
 ''Long term, international is the place to be,'' Mr. Strauss said.
 Sales projections easily explain why retailers explore such measures. Over the next five years, Ms. Johnson said she expected the European electronic commerce market to grow at an annual rate of 33 percent -- more than twice the rate in the United States. The percentage of Europeans who are online continues to grow, whereas the United States, by contrast, is adding relatively few new Internet users each year because most Americans are already online, Internet analysts say.
 The success of Amazon.com's international sales efforts has also helped spur the trend of online retailers expanding globally. During its latest earnings announcement in late October, Amazon.com said that its North American sales had grown 15 percent in the third quarter compared to the same period in 2003. Meanwhile, sales for the company's British, German, French, Japanese and Chinese sites were up 52 percent in the quarter compared to the same period a year earlier.
 EBags, based in Denver, an online seller of luggage, handbags and shoes, is among the latest merchants to begin a foreign expansion. In October, the privately held company introduced a British site (www.ebags.co.uk). This spring it plans to start another site for Germany, according to Peter Cobb, an eBags senior vice president and co-founder. A French eBags site will probably follow later this year, he said.
 According to Mr. Cobb, the international expansion at eBags is not meant to prop up sales, because the company's sales growth of 36 percent in 2004 from the year before exceeded the industry average. Rather, the idea is simply to capitalize on untapped markets. 
 Mr. Cobb said that most European luggage retailers are ''small family-run operations with maybe 100 or 200 items,'' and have more limited selling hours than United States retailers.
 ''That doesn't cut it for a growing part of the population who knows there's selection out there,'' Mr. Cobb said. ''We already have 70 brands on our U.K. site, and we're selling 1,200 products, and that'll go up to 5,000 by June.''
 EBags has an advantage over many retailers looking to establish foreign outposts in that it does not operate warehouses. Rather, it takes orders on behalf of manufacturers, who then ship the goods directly to customers. 
 (EBags retains responsibility for all marketing, customer service and Web site issues, in exchange for an undisclosed sales commission.)
 Without the logistical headaches that often accompany shipping goods to different European nations, eBags can concentrate on finding the right mix of items for each country, and presenting them in a way that will appeal to those shoppers. 
 That, in itself, requires careful planning, Mr. Cobb said, because of how differently consumers in each country approach merchandise. ''In Germany, the bags tend to be very function-oriented. Lots of black. Very well built,'' he said. ''In France and Italy they're more into style, colors, seasonality. U.K. tends to be about function and value and quality as well.''
 And even though eBags does not actually ship its goods to customers, it must be aware of possible shipping glitches. During the run-up to this past holiday season, for instance, eBags learned that some manufacturers shut down for a week or two at a time. ''So we turned off brands on our site, so customers wouldn't order them and expect delivery by Christmas,'' Mr. Cobb said.
 Among American merchants, few have as extensive an international Internet operation as Office Depot, the office supply company that generated $3 billion in online sales last year, more than 20 percent of the company's overall sales. In addition to its United States Web site, the company operates sites in 16 other countries and in 14 languages.
 The company, which started introducing international sites in 1998, has taken a markedly different approach than eBags, in that Office Depot created country-specific Web sites only in nations where it already had warehouses and call centers for its mail-order operations.
 Monica Luechtefeld, Office Depot's executive vice president for strategy and development, said, ''We wanted to be in and of the country, not just go and sell to the country.''
 Ms. Luechtefeld said the company had accumulated 44 international Web sites through its own efforts and through mergers -- a number she hopes to whittle to 20 in the coming months. To save itself from having to put technological improvements into place piecemeal, the company has spent the last year consolidating its Internet systems.
 Next month, OfficeDepot.com plans to upgrade its search function. As a result, engineers will be able to easily make the same change across all of its international sites. Amid all the considerations about presenting merchandise properly to different cultures, or catching linguistic slips on foreign sites, Ms. Luechtefeld said cross-border cultural issues among technology employees presented some of the thornier problems.
 ''There's a lot of pride in each country's development of their own technology solutions,'' Ms. Luechtefeld said. ''So, harder than the technology challenge was getting a consensus to not develop a German site, a French site, a U.K. site or even a U.S. site, but rather a global site that would serve the customer first. I have a whole new respect for the United Nations.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Jim Weir, Casey Gill, Val Agostino and Katherine Agostino work in the British office of eBags, an American Web company. (Photo by Jonathan Player for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (93%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); LUGGAGE & LEATHER GOODS STORES (88%); FLORISTS (78%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TRENDS (75%); TEST MARKETING (75%); SALES PROJECTIONS (74%); RETAIL SALES (74%); SALES & SELLING (74%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (64%) Retail Stores and Trade; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%); AMAZON.COM INC (52%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (55%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (52%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (52%)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2005



196 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; ASIA'S DEADLY WAVES: RELIEF; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: More Help Arrives In Indonesian City: $3.30-a-Day Jobs

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

DATELINE: BANDA ACEH, Indonesia, Jan. 9 

 BODY:
In the midst of a putrid debris field that stretches for miles, an American-based relief agency here is putting dozens of local people to work, paying much-needed cash for the crucial tasks of clearing debris and recovering bodies in this devastated city. 
 In recruiting the laborers, the group, Mercy Corps, is expanding on its usual distribution of food, drinking water and tents. It is also offering a modest answer to perhaps the most pressing question facing a city in which so many thousands of homes and lives have been destroyed: where to begin?
 ''I don't know what else to do,'' said Zul Fikar, 25, a fisherman who joined the program after his wife, mother-in-law and 11-month-old son were all killed in the disaster. He also lost his home and his job. ''Here, I can find friends, and when you work, you get an income,'' he said. 
 The group's Cash for Work program has started here on a relatively small scale: 100 men organized into two basic groups in a single neighborhood in southwestern Banda Aceh. The men in one group, working to remove debris from roads and lots, make $3.30 a day plus lunch for working seven and a half hours -- roughly the standard wage for unskilled labor here.
 The second group makes more, about $5.60 a day, but its task is more trying: collecting bodies being unearthed by the dozen. 
 In most of the rest of the city, the cleanup is being organized by the Indonesian military, and it took five days of negotiations before the government would sign off on the Mercy Corps work program.
 But with a shortage of earth-moving equipment and the vastness of Aceh Province, it will take months, if not years, to clear all the debris and collect all the bodies, so the program has become a useful addition.
 The effort is expanding, too. By the end of the month, Mercy Corps hopes to have 1,000 people in the project and to expand the scope of the work to include helping out at local schools, said Nigel Pont, the program director in Indonesia for the group, which is based in Portland, Ore. 
 One crew was busy late Saturday afternoon, using giant fallen palm trees and scrap metal to fashion a small bridge to replace one of so many that were washed away here.
 ''Satu! Dua! Tiga!'' the men shouted, counting off in Indonesian before thrusting a palm tree out into the open space between the surviving bridge abutments. They laughed and joked as the new bridge took shape. 
 Despite the grueling and gruesome labor, the men recruited by Mercy Corps seem relieved to have something constructive to do, as well as to be able to get out of the refugee camps during daytime hours.
 The debris they are clearing serves as a diary of sorts to the enormity of the calamity that happened here. A woman's dress, a television remote control box, a scrap of wallpaper, a keyboard from a piano, random shoes, a child's doll, all of this and more is strewn across the flat expanse where the men were working.
 The body-collection crews had a certain determination about their labor, using a handcrafted stretcher to carry the bodies, which were wrapped in soiled rugs salvaged from the debris.
 The burial site, approved by local religious leaders, is a hole in the ground, filled with water after recent heavy rains. With no ceremony, bodies are dropped into the swampy pit, and then one of the workers uses a stick to push the floating bodies forward, to make room for the next load.
 Mercy Corps employees serve as the foremen, supervising the other laborers as they ever so slowly move down the road. For now, the men are working without rubber boots, heavy duty gloves, or even tetanus shots, all conditions that Mercy Corps says it intends to change within the next few days, when it receives new supplies.
 The clearing of the road and the work of these laborers appears to be inspiring others in the neighborhood to join in the cleanup.
 Sarifuddim, 52, a street vendor, stood next to the site where his immediate family had lived. Next door was the site where most of his relatives had lived. Fifteen members of his family died, including his sister and her four children.
 On Saturday, after seeing the Mercy Corps crew come through, he was picking though his sister's house -- a piece of it is still standing while his house is entirely gone -- salvaging a TV set, a few shirts, a decorative vase and a collection of snapshots.
 Mercy Corps, which is also distributing food for about 55,000 homeless people in the districts surrounding Banda Aceh, first tried the cash-for-work idea on a large scale in Afghanistan, when the agency was working there in 2000 and 2001 after a major drought. The region had enough food in its markets, but because of the drought, many farmers could not grow their own or afford to buy it. 
 By paying indebted farmers to fix roads or construct irrigation systems, the charity helped them and the local economy, Mr. Pont said.
 The goals are similar here, as stores are once again filling with food and other supplies. But so many people are both homeless and jobless, they do not have money to spend.
 ''We want to focus on the critical barriers that are stopping people from going home and restarting their lives,'' Mr. Pont said. ''Nobody wants to live in a displaced persons camp.''
 If Mercy Corps' plans to expand the work program to 1,000 people succeeds, the cost will surpass the agency's more traditional food aid operations in the area. It will also require a special push for donations, and the agency is approaching private donors to help.
 It is an investment that Indonesians seem to appreciate, saying it gives them money to buy vegetables, fish and other food and supplies that are not being passed out at the refugee camps.
 ''I don't have much of anything anymore,'' said Suryadi, 42, a fisherman, who lost his house and has joined the work program to help provide for his wife and four children. ''I am flat out of cash. Somehow, we have to go on.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Indonesian men, suffering the loss of their homes and livelihoods, are being paid by a private relief agency to clear debris and remove bodies. (Photo by Scott Eells for The New York Times)(pg. A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TSUNAMIS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (60%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (50%) Earthquakes; Tsunamis; Philanthropy; Foreign Aid ; Earthquakes; Labor; Education and Schools; Shortages

ORGANIZATION: MERCY CORPS (84%) Mercy Corps

PERSON: Eric Lipton

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (51%) SUMATRA, INDONESIA (94%); OREGON, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (76%) INDONESIA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (73%) Indian Ocean; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Banda Aceh (Indonesia); Aceh Province (Indonesia); Indonesia

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2005



197 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; The Neediest Cases; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Giving Four Boys a More Secure Winter

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
As a single mother of four boys, Agustina Garcia has her hands full. On some afternoons, when her children have friends over, there are 10 boys zooming around her living room. 
 But in addition to fielding requests for sleepovers, keeping track of who is playing basketball on which day, and monitoring what the boys are watching on television, Ms. Garcia must also pay close attention to her sons' health. 
 All of them are asthmatic, and the oldest, Gabriel Gomez, 15, also has epilepsy. He is supposed to take 250 milligrams of the drug Lamictal twice a day, but if he forgets, seizures convulse his body and his pupils roll up until only the whites of his eyes are visible.
 These episodes last only a few seconds, ''but in seconds something could happen,'' says Ms. Garcia, 34. She is sitting on the couch in her home in the Inwood neighborhood of Manhattan, which is unusually quiet this morning with her sons in school. 
 Another son, Joseph Morros, 9, has attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. 
 The youngest son, Alejandro Abreu, 4, began talking late and has been in speech therapy since he was 2. He attends the Children's Aid Society's Head Start program at Public School 5, where Ms. Garcia is a member of the Center Policy Council, which is like a PTA. She attends monthly meetings of the policy council and leads the committee that helps evaluate new Head Start employees and volunteers.
 ''She's a voice for the parents,'' said Vanessa Pitts, who works for the Head Start program at P.S. 5.
 Before Christmas, Ms. Garcia visited business owners, collecting money and treats like cookies and juice to make gift baskets for all the children in the Head Start program. 
 All four of her boys are involved in activities organized by the Children's Aid Society, one of seven charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. Their basketball games are coordinated by the agency, and Ms. Garcia's second son, Miguel Morros, 11, attends an after-school program operated by Children's Aid at P.S. 152.
 Ms. Garcia, however, is also thinking about her own education. She recalled that when she was in high school, she attended a class on early childhood education on Saturdays at Borough of Manhattan Community College. She had been interested in a job that would allow her to work with children, perhaps something in social work.
 She hasn't given up on the idea. When Alejandro begins kindergarten in September, she is considering returning to school as well to get a degree in social work.
 But tuition will be a problem because with so many medical appointments for the boys, Ms. Garcia has had trouble holding a job. And there is no one but her to pick up Alejandro from school at 3 p.m. each day. 
 She supports herself and her boys with $104 a month in food stamps and $145 from public assistance to cover living expenses. She also receives a rent subsidy of about $600 a month, which covers all but $45 of the cost for her apartment.
 She has little money left for daily necessities.
 In November, the Children's Aid Society gave the family with $300 from the Neediest Cases Fund to buy warm clothes for the winter. The fund provided the family $390 in 2003.
 Jeanette Then, a family service coordinator for the Head Start program at P.S. 5, said Neediest Cases money provides a lifeline to hundreds of New Yorkers like Ms. Garcia.
 ''Our families are low-income families,'' Ms. Then said. ''The aid that they get from welfare is not enough. It doesn't stretch. Sometimes we see children wearing sweat pants in the summertime.''
 Ms. Then noted that having winter clothes has done more than keep the boys warm. It has also raised their self-esteem because ill-fitting or seasonally inappropriate clothes can make children feel like outcasts. 
 ''The New York Times is, I think, one of the most fundamental economic pieces of our organization,'' Ms. Then said. ''These families don't have savings accounts.''
 She paused and said, ''As a social worker, it gives us the satisfaction that we're able to do something; that we're accomplishing something.''
 A silence fell over the room. Morning was slipping away. A cat leapt from the floor to the couch where Ms. Garcia was sitting and then sped out of the room, a harbinger of the frenzy that would accompany the boys' return.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Agustina Garcia gets a kiss from her youngest son, Alejandro Abreu, 4, in their Manhattan apartment
her other sons are, from left, Joseph Morros, 9
Gabriel Gomez, 15
 and Miguel Morros, 11. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (89%); CHILD WELFARE (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (77%); BASKETBALL (77%); EPILEPSY (75%); TUITION FEES (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%); ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER (71%); CHRISTMAS (69%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (67%); SPEECH THERAPY (66%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); CHARITIES (63%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

ORGANIZATION: Children's Aid Society

PERSON: Agustina Garcia; Stephanie Rosenbloom

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2005



198 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Seeing the Forest for the Peace

BYLINE: By William Powers. 
William Powers, who directed aid projects in Liberia from 1999 to 2001, is the author of ''Blue Clay People: Seasons on Africa's Fragile Edge.''

DATELINE: BANJUL, Gambia 

 BODY:
TWENTY-FIVE years of dictatorship and civil war, preceded by a century and a half of misrule, have made Liberia one of the world's poorest countries. But Liberia's development failures have paradoxically led to a success. Liberia has something that the world values now more than ever: a vast rain forest. 
 Liberia's status as a republic with strong ties to the United States kept out European colonizers, so no Western power came in to slice rails and roads into the interior. Nature flourished in splendid isolation, and today more than a third of the country is virgin rain forest, one of the largest proportions of any nation. A Garden of Eden bloomed around the hamlets where I worked: colobus monkeys crashed through the jungle canopy, pygmy hippos tobogganed into rivers, and sometimes the only roads through the forest were those blazed by elephants. Conservation International says that Liberia is the linchpin of West Africa's Upper Guinean forest, which is believed to shelter the highest mammal species diversity of any region in the world. 
 It's not just tree-huggers who want to save the Liberian rain forest; nearly all first-world governments have made conserving the last great rain forests on earth a priority. The Liberian forest serves us all: it mitigates global warming; it harbors vulnerable species like the Mount Nimba viviparous toad and zebra duiker; it could be the source of new medicines; and it provides aesthetic and spiritual well-being.
 Economics 101 is also at play here. As the supply of pristine rain forests declines (conservation groups estimate that the world loses an acre every two seconds) and the demand for what they provide increases, their value increases. Liberia should capitalize on its ecological wealth by exchanging something the world needs for something Liberians desperately want: stability.
 It would be a sort of Peace for Nature swap, based on the Debt for Nature model in which third world countries receive debt relief for conserving their natural heritage. Under Peace for Nature, Liberia would convert a significant part of itself into a United Nations biosphere reserve, zoned for both strict preservation and multiple use. 
 In return, the world would commit to a sustainable, lasting Liberian peace instead of the usual Band-Aid approach. This means a full 20 years, long enough to establish a habit of peace and to educate a new Liberian generation. We would ensure security through the United Nations, meanwhile training Liberians to do the job themselves, including retooling former fighters as park guards. We would also help bring electricity and piped water to their capital, Monrovia, and a few interior towns. Liberia's potential for ecotourism and certified timber production will be fulfilled over time, as its image transforms from red (blood diamonds) to green (rain forests). 
 Alternatively, Liberia faces one of two other possible futures, neither rosy.
 The first is the status quo, which has Liberia headed for political collapse. True, the United Nations mission in Liberia has disarmed combatants; but the world still spends a thousand times more each day for war in Iraq than peace in Liberia. And while it's refreshing to drive across a Monrovia patrolled by grinning Ukrainians in blue helmets instead of the gun-toting children used by the ousted president, Charles Taylor, this lull is transient; interest will fade as other conflicts ignite and the world prematurely pulls out the United Nations tanks. When that day comes, anarchy could return to Liberia, and it could become a breeding ground for the next generation of terrorists. 
 A second possibility is that the impoverished nation would try to keep itself afloat by selling its principal asset to multinational companies, auctioning timber concessions for rapid clear-cutting (a job Charles Taylor started). Profits are quickly racked up and sent offshore, and Liberia finds itself a barren land. 
 Peace for Nature is an idea in keeping with the history of Liberia, whose very existence is a result of a deal struck in the United States between early 19th-century Northern liberals who yearned to help freed slaves go home and Southern conservatives who simply wanted them out of sight. 
 Today, the greening of Liberia is both liberal (help starving Liberian children; heal the earth) and conservative (reduce global warming cheaply; control anarchic zones that foster terrorism). President James Monroe christened Liberia ''a little America, destined to shine gem-like in the heart of darkest Africa.'' If Monroe's language is anachronistic, his optimism is not; what we have spawned, we can help renew. 
 Luckily, President Bush likes Liberia, and the feeling is mutual. It's not just that Liberians love America, which they certainly do. (They cling firmly to their red, white and blue flag; their national dance, ''the Dixie square dance''; and a Constitution written at Harvard and codified at Cornell.) They adore Mr. Bush because he stood up for them. I heard the story a dozen times from earnest Liberians on my recent visit there: with Marine helicopters thwacking over Monrovia in 2003, Mr. Bush warned that Charles Taylor must leave Liberia now, and I mean now. Mr. Taylor left for Nigeria, and is now, thankfully, a non-factor.
 A challenge of Mr. Bush's second term is to move beyond chasing tyrants to developing a foreign policy that's both creatively compassionate and conservative. Why not start with a green quid pro quo for Liberia? 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Cathie Bleck) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); RAIN FORESTS (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (76%); PRIMATES (76%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (73%); ECOTOURISM (71%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (65%); DIAMOND MARKETS (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) Forests and Forestry; United States International Relations; Foreign Aid; Politics and Government ; Freedom and Human Rights

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL FOUNDATION (56%) United Nations

PERSON: William Powers; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBERIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); GAMBIA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); GUINEA (79%); AFRICA (79%) Liberia; Liberia

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2005



199 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Rowland's Plea Seen as a Shrewd Deal, if Not a Pleasant One

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

 BODY:
For John G. Rowland, last month's plea agreement was not the best deal he might have wished for. It will leave him a felon, facing a strong likelihood of prison.
 But lawyers involved in the case say that the deal shrewdly positioned Mr. Rowland, the former Republican governor of Connecticut, to appeal for leniency at his sentencing on March 11 and halted a criminal investigation that seemed to be making inroads with help from close associates, like his former driver, Vincent DeRosa.
 A former United States attorney for Connecticut, Stanley A. Twardy Jr., called the deal a ''good result'' for Mr. Rowland ''because he has now limited his exposure'' to tougher criminal penalties. 
 Lawyers said the timing also increased Mr. Rowland's chance of being sentenced by a senior Federal District Court judge who has been challenged by prosecutors in the past for leniency. 
 That opportunity arose because the judge, Peter C. Dorsey, a Reagan appointee, was recently assigned the related cases in the scandal. His gentle manner and respectful quizzing of Mr. Rowland were on display on Dec. 23 in his New Haven courtroom as Mr. Rowland pleaded guilty to one count of conspiring to commit both tax fraud and theft of honest services.
 Judge Dorsey ''would appear to be a great draw for Rowland,'' said Eugene Riccio, a Bridgeport lawyer who represents individuals in the investigation. Mr. Rowland's lawyer, William F. Dow III, and officials at the United States attorney's office would not comment.
 Integral to the Dec. 23 court proceeding was Mr. Rowland's formal acceptance of the government's account of how he used his office to enrich people who gave him $107,000 in gifts that he failed to report on tax returns he filed with his wife, Patricia, for the years 1998 to 2001.
 But to some who have followed the accusations against the governor, played out in impeachment hearings that ended in his resignation last summer, the plea agreement was surprising, for what it included and what it left out.
 Lawyers familiar with the case said the end result had more to do with federal sentencing guidelines, which rely on numerical scores to arrive at a recommended sentencing range, than with the sum of his transgressions. 
 They said prosecutors wanted Mr. Rowland to admit to taking gifts worth at least $70,000, to bolster their case that the 15- to 21-month recommended sentence he faced as a public official under the guidelines was warranted. As long as that figure was reached, the lawyers said, prosecutors were willing to give Mr. Rowland leeway on which gifts to acknowledge as improper. At the same time, Mr. Dow sought to keep the figure below $120,000; even a tad more would have added three months to the recommended prison time. 
 In the end, the $107,000 compromise paved the way for the recommendation that Mr. Rowland receive a 15- to 21-month sentence, which Judge Dorsey can accept or increase or decrease.
 It held Mr. Rowland accountable for helping in 2002 to obtain retroactive tax relief that had been sought by the company that had flown him free on private jets to Philadelphia and Las Vegas between April 1999 and November 2000.
 But the agreement made no mention of items that became symbols of his excess, like the $3,600 hot tub and Cuban cigars that he took from people doing business with his office. It also ignored tens of thousands of dollars in inflated real estate payments that, federal prosecutors asserted in a related case, were funneled to the governor by Robert V. Matthews, a friend whose businesses got millions in state subsidies and rent since Mr. Rowland took office in 1995.
 Mr. Matthews's lawyer, Hubert Santos, would not comment.
 About the only piece of the plea agreement that was widely anticipated was Mr. Rowland's admission that he had taken bargain-price vacations and accepted improvements to his cottage from the Tomasso family of New Britain in the same years he was helping them get the inside track on state contracts.
 In September, prosecutors accused William A. Tomasso; two of his family's companies; Peter N. Ellef, Mr. Rowland's co-chief of staff between 1997 and 2002; and others of turning the governor's office into a racketeering enterprise. The defendants have denied wrongdoing and are awaiting trial.
 Their cases were expected to go to Judge Robert N. Chatigny, because he had handled related matters. But Judge Chatigny stepped aside this fall after a former law partner of his appeared in court as one of the Tomassos' lawyers, and the cases ended up with Judge Dorsey.
 The Tomassos' gifts to Mr. Rowland were worth $15,549, according to the plea agreement. That left another $54,451 to $104,451 in gifts to haggle over, making a few rides on a private plane, valued at $91,493, a savvy concession, several lawyers with knowledge of the case said.
 Defense lawyers said that Mr. Dow must also assume it will be easier to describe a handful of improper gifts than dozens of smaller gifts as an oversight. He can also argue, they say, that the plea agreement overstates the value of the flights.
 Though Mr. Dow would have to avoid undermining the credit his client got from prosecutors for ''acceptance of responsibility,'' Mr. Dow might also argue that the tax relief was legitimate and vital to the state's economy, a view of some lawmakers and administration officials.
 As Marc S. Ryan, the state's former budget director, explained, the state's efforts to levy a sales tax on the management fees that companies earn on aircraft parked at their hangars was driving aircraft companies and customers out of the state.
 For that reason, he said, he -- and not Mr. Rowland -- decided to insert a tax exemption for that industry into the governor's proposed budget for the 2003 fiscal year. 
 ''Ultimately,'' he said, the decision was based ''on the merits of the economic development issues.''
 Both Mr. Ryan and State Senator Louis C. DeLuca, a Republican who backed the bill that put the exemption into law in 2002, said that they were unaware of the meeting described in the plea agreement between the charter air company's representative and the governor, and that such discussions had little bearing on the outcome.
 Prosecutors also sought out -- and lawyers said they obtained -- the cooperation of two of Mr. Rowland's former drivers, both of whom had dealings concerning Key Air, of Oxford, Conn., the charter air company that had sought the tax relief. 
 ''They were getting close to people close to Rowland,'' a lawyer in the case said.
 It was Mr. DeRosa, a former state trooper who headed Mr. Rowland's security detail until he was put in charge of the state's Department of Homeland Security, who often arranged for Mr. Rowland to travel on Key Air, lawyers in the case said. 
 Records show that he also accompanied the governor on some of the free trips and helped obtain the hot tub and other gifts for Mr. Rowland.
 Mr. Santos, who is also Mr. DeRosa's lawyer, would not comment.
 A second trooper who drove Mr. Rowland, Kenneth Rigney, drew attention to himself when the tax change was being debated by bringing documents about the matter to the attention of the Department of Revenue Services. 
 Mr. Riccio, Mr. Rigney's lawyer, said would not comment.


GRAPHIC: Photo: John G. Rowland, center, outside federal court last month in New Haven, where he entered a guilty plea. His wife, Patricia, is at right. (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FELONIES (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); JUDGES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); LARCENY & THEFT (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); BRIBERY (73%); IMPEACHMENT (73%); TAX LAW (73%); ETHICS (72%) Ethics; Bribery ; Sentences (Criminal); Governors (US)

PERSON: John G Rowland; Peter C (Judge) Dorsey; Alison Leigh Cowan

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (78%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2005



200 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1568 words

HEADLINE: As White House Begins Social Security Push, Critics Claim Exaggeration

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 9 

 BODY:
In the first phase of a strategy to build support for overhauling Social Security, White House officials are planning to describe the retirement program as a system in ''crisis'' whose promises to younger workers are a ''fiction.''
 Beginning Tuesday, when President Bush will hold a public meeting with people worried about their retirement, White House officials plan to hammer home the message that Social Security is ''headed toward an iceberg'' and will collapse as baby boomers enter retirement. 
 ''We need to establish in the public mind a key fiscal fact: right now we are on an unsustainable course,'' wrote Peter Wehner, a White House political strategist, in a memorandum to conservative groups last week. ''The reality needs to be seared into the public consciousness.'' 
 But opponents of Mr. Bush's approach say he is greatly exaggerating the problems to sell his plan to scale back Social Security, the government's biggest and oldest social program. 
 Outside analysts say Social Security's long-term financial gap, which the government estimates to be $3.7 trillion over 75 years, is smaller than the projected cost of Mr. Bush's tax cuts or the Medicare prescription drug program that he pushed through Congress in 2003.
 The Social Security trust fund has accumulated more than $1.5 trillion in reserves, held in Treasury bonds. Even if no changes are made, the government's actuaries predict that the program will be able to pay full benefits until at least 2042 and at least 70 percent of benefits after that.
 That is a far brighter outlook than in 1983, the last time Congress shored up Social Security, when the trust fund was just days from insolvency. 
 The government's long-term projections for Social Security have become more optimistic over the last eight years. Since 1997, government actuaries have pushed back the date of projected insolvency from 2029 to 2042. 
 The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, using different assumptions, predicts that the trust fund will last even longer, until 2052.
 ''There is a problem, but there is no basis for calling it a crisis,'' said Peter Diamond, a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a co-author of the book ''Saving Social Security.''
 ''If you compare its position now with its position at the time of the last reforms in 1977 and 1983, it's clearly better,'' Professor Diamond said. ''Even then, it was readily fixed without radical reforms, and it's obvious that can be done again.''
 The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal policy research group, estimated that the Medicare prescription drug program would cost $8.1 trillion over 75 years. Permanently extending Mr. Bush's tax cuts would cost $11.6 trillion.
 ''You can make a real argument that the government as a whole faces big fiscal challenges well before 2042,'' said Robert Greenstein, director of the center. ''But Social Security is a very small part of the problem.''
 Democratic lawmakers, pledging to protect what they regard as one of their party's most enduring achievements, insist that Social Security's problems can be easily fixed by tweaks to payroll taxes and benefit formulas.
 ''Their strategy is, we're going to scare people, cut benefits, privatize and call it a reform agenda,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel, Democrat of Illinois.
 But Mr. Bush's strategy puts Democrats in a difficult position. If they argue that Social Security is fundamentally in good health, Republicans could accuse them of irresponsibly glossing over serious long-term problems.
 Democrats concede that Social Security faces significant financial problems that would be best addressed sooner rather than later. 
 The basic facts are not much in dispute. As the nation's baby boomers start to retire at the end of this decade, the cost of retirement benefits is expected to rise much faster than payroll taxes from active workers. 
 Adding to the imbalance, the laws governing Social Security benefits ensure that payments become higher with each generation of retirees, even after accounting for inflation.
 According to the Social Security trust fund's latest projections, the cost of benefits will start to eclipse payroll taxes in 2018. By 2042, the trust fund will have used up its reserves and payroll taxes will cover only about 70 percent of the promised benefits. 
 Beyond the long-term financial gap of $3.7 trillion over the next 75 years, Mr. Bush cites a more alarming number: $10.5 trillion, or sometimes $11 trillion, as the expected shortfall over an ''infinite horizon.'' 
 Actuarial experts are deeply divided about the value of such long-term projections, but most agree that the problem is real and needs to be addressed.
 The basic dispute is whether Social Security is sustainable in its current form, as a system that provides guaranteed retirement benefits on a predictable formula.
 Administration officials argue that the long-term demographic trends are so ominous that the system cannot be patched up. The only real solution, they say, is to convert much of Social Security from a government-guaranteed program to a system of individual savings accounts and private responsibility.
 The problem, they contend, is that the gap between payroll taxes and benefits will grow bigger and bigger over the next 75 years. Solutions that restore balance over the 75-year horizon can still leave huge deficits immediately afterward. 
 That was in part what happened after the financial crisis in 1983. 
 A bipartisan commission headed by Alan Greenspan, now chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, staved off a collapse by hammering out a plan of payroll tax increases and a gradual postponement of the normal retirement age to 67 from 65.
 The changes succeeded, but they were intended only to keep Social Security solvent for 75 years, until 2058. Even if the changes achieve that goal, analysts say the program will still face a huge long-term deficit because the number of retirees will soar in the years after 2058.
 ''What people forget is that the baby boom is not like a pig in the python,'' said Kent Smetters, an associate professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania and a former senior official in Mr. Bush's Treasury Department.
 ''If you just balance it over the next 75 years, it just means we have to come back and do the same thing all over again about 15 years from now,'' Professor Smetters said.
 Even so, critics of the administration contend that Social Security is far stronger today than at many points in the past.
 The Social Security trust fund has been running annual surpluses for more than two decades. It is expected to keep running operating surpluses until 2018, but it will actually expand for 10 more years because of the interest it receives from Treasury bonds.
 Mr. Bush's Social Security campaign is also likely to include assertions that the trust fund is ''empty,'' because the government has already used the annual surpluses to finance its operating deficits.
 The trust fund is ''all trust and no fund,'' wrote Rich Tucker, an analyst at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research group that supports Mr. Bush's approach.
 But analysts say it is wrong to imply that the trust fund will not pay benefits, because the government could avoid payment only by defaulting on its Treasury bonds, in effect declaring bankruptcy. The consequences of that would be so catastrophic for the government and world financial markets that few economists consider it plausible.
 Most analysts, including many who support Mr. Bush's approach, contend that Social Security's problems can be eliminated by changing benefit formulas and taxes. 
 Professor Diamond at M.I.T. and Peter Orszag, a former Clinton administration official and a senior economist at the Brookings Institution, have proposed a plan that would gradually increase payroll taxes and slowly trim benefits promised to future retirees. Payroll tax rates would rise from 12.4 percent today to about 15 percent in 2075, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. Benefits for people retiring 100 years from now would be higher than for people today, even after inflation, but about 23 percent below the amounts promised under today's formulas.
 The chief actuaries at the Congressional Budget Office and the Social Security Administration each concluded that the plan would restore solvency well beyond 75 years. 
 White House officials privately concede that the centerpiece of Mr. Bush's approach to Social Security -- letting people invest some of their payroll taxes in private accounts -- would do nothing in itself to eliminate the long-term gap. 
 The real savings would be realized by reducing future benefits, most likely by abandoning the practice of setting a person's initial benefit as a fixed percentage of preretirement earnings. Benefits would keep pace with inflation, but analysts estimate that benefits for a middle-income worker who retires in 2065 would be about 50 percent lower than the benefits promised under today's law. 
 ''We simply cannot solve the Social Security problem with Personal Retirement Accounts alone,'' wrote Mr. Wehner, the White House political strategist, in his memorandum last week. ''If the goal is permanent solvency and sustainability -- as we believe it should be -- then Personal Retirements Accounts, for all their virtues, are insufficient to that task.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''An Urgent Crisis or a Fixable Problem?''President Bush is beginning an effort to convince Americans that Social Security is in urgent need of change. But opponents of his plan say he is exaggerating the scale and urgency of the problem.THE ISSUE -- A wave of retiring baby boomers and increasingly higher benefits mean that the systems trust fund will have exhausted its reserves by 2042, according to the trustees of the system. Other estimates put that date 10 years later. The shortfall over 75 years is expected to be $3.7 trillion.Graph tracks amount in trust fund minus cost of benefits since 2003 through 2078.THE CONTEXT -- Critics of the presidents plan point to the greater cost over the next 75 years of other major domestic initiatives.Social Security trust fund shortfall: $3.7 trillionMedicare prescription drug benefit: $8.1 trillion2001-2003 tax cuts made permanent: $11.6 trillionCosts shown are over 75 yearsThey also note that the programs financial health by some measures is improving, as judged by the years until the projected insolvency of the program.Year of trustees' report: 1997Year trust fund expected to run out: 2029Years remaining until trust fund is expected to run out: 32Year of trustees' report: 1998Year trust fund expected to run out: 2032Years remaining until trust fund is expected to run out: 34Year of trustees' report: 1999Year trust fund expected to run out: 2034Years remaining until trust fund is expected to run out: 35Year of trustees' report: 2000Year trust fund expected to run out: 2037Years remaining until trust fund is expected to run out: 37Year of trustees' report: 2001Year trust fund expected to run out: 2038Years remaining until trust fund is expected to run out: 37Year of trustees' report: 2002Year trust fund expected to run out: 2041Years remaining until trust fund is expected to run out: 39Year of trustees' report: 2003Year trust fund expected to run out: 2042Years remaining until trust fund is expected to run out: 39Year of trustees' report: 2004Year trust fund expected to run out: 2042Years remaining until trust fund is expected to run out: 38(Sources by Social Security Administration
 Center on Budget and Policy Priorities) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); BUDGETS (89%); MEDICARE (87%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (87%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); WRITERS (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (72%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (71%); TAX LAW (70%); BONDS (66%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (65%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%) Social Security (US); Social Security (US)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (59%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2005

 
