

601 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Fans and Foes Offer Same Refrain: Told You So 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: LAKE OSWEGO, Ore., April 20 

 BODY:
His admirers say they are impressed that President Bush is secure enough to surround himself with capable advisers. His detractors say he is so unprepared that he has no choice but to lean heavily on others.
 His admirers say Mr. Bush's unadorned speaking style strikes them as refreshingly honest. His detractors say they are embarrassed by Mr. Bush's sometimes jumbled syntax. 
 His admirers say they are thrilled that Mr. Bush's proposal for a huge tax cut is making its way through Congress and are not concerned that the Senate significantly reduced its size. His detractors say they fear the tax cut is not what is needed to fortify the economy and are thankful that the Senate pared it back. (Some, however, confessed to relishing the prospect of lower taxes.) 
After more than three months of watching their new president preside over an imbroglio with China, react to a wobbly economy and banter with lawmakers, people in this affluent, fast-growing town south of Portland -- where voters' preferences are known for swinging wildly between Democrats and Republicans -- seem as fractured over his performance as they were in one of the closest presidential elections in history.
Al Gore barely won this state, and the votes here were closely divided: 11,414 for Mr. Gore; 10,426 for Mr. Bush and 891 for Ralph Nader. Over the next fours years, suburbs like Lake Oswego will be ground zero as the parties struggle for domination.
In three dozen interviews here this week, what was perhaps most notable was how people used their observations of Mr. Bush to reinforce their initial inclinations -- negative or positive.
"Just like a mother raises a baby, somebody is telling him how to take each step," said Theresa Taylor, 85, a retired bookkeeper who voted for Mr. Gore. "Somebody is guiding him through this presidency."
Her husband, Walter Taylor, 85, piped in: "His daddy is, dammit!" Mr. Taylor, a retired logging equipment salesman, said he was uneasy. "What's going to happen when we get to a point where we really need a leader? To me, he doesn't look like a leader, either. He looks like a spoiled kid who wouldn't know what to do if we get into a real international jam."
The Taylors are both registered Republicans who were so put off by Mr. Bush that they defected to Mr. Gore.
But Sandy Olson, 56, who voted for Mr. Bush and works at a food bank, said she was impressed by the president's reliance on aides. "He has people who know more than he does," she said. "He was secure enough that he surrounded himself with competent people so he's not a one-man show."
Another Bush supporter, Sue Grove, 38, an elementary school assistant, put it this way: "It looks like Bush is reading from a script. So? Not everyone presents himself well. But I trust him. He's definitely for family. And Laura Bush is a lady who's not out to prove anything. She's out to support her husband. I don't think that's backwards. It just brings some class back to the White House."
Judy Macy, 64, a receptionist who backed Mr. Bush, was more guarded. "I just hope he's not parroting what others have written for him," she said. "But how would we know that?"
Although they sometimes framed their answers through partisan prisms, Mr. Bush's friends and foes offered many common impressions. More than anything else, people said they were struck by how Mr. Bush has assembled an accomplished team. Most also said they were still adjusting to a president who was not as eloquent as President Bill Clinton.
The one point on which all seemed to agree was in generally giving Mr. Bush credit for his efforts to bring home the crew of the American spy plane that collided with a Chinese fighter jet, though some in both parties said he could have displayed more finesse in dealing with the Chinese.
"He got our people back," said Brian Winters, 23, an independent who is a midfielder for the Portland Timbers soccer team. Then Mr. Winters turned negative. "You'd think the most powerful man in our country could be articulate when he gives a speech," he said. "But I think he is pretty intelligent to be where he is -- or else our whole political system is flawed."
Beyond China, Republicans and Democrats offered starkly different impressions. One after another, Democrats expressed particular dismay about Mr. Bush's decisions to loosen environmental regulations and they most often said they feared the consequences of oil drilling in Alaska and other protected areas. Die-hard Republicans never mentioned the environment and instead pointed to the comfort they took in having a president who they said had high morals. 
"Just having morality back in the White House is a huge relief," said Joanne Kantor, 34, a mortgage broker. "Look at Clinton and how he was in the news every day. That's not the type of engagement I want to see in a president. I just think Bush is staying out of trouble -- personally."
Carl Nelson, 55, who owns a small import company, said approvingly: "It takes more than I.Q. I'll take less intelligence and balance that off with a lot more integrity. If there's a negative, I think he probably likes the script too much. But even people I know who were worried about him are so pleased with the people he surrounds himself with."
Few Democrats or independents mentioned the word integrity, and many said they were unnerved by Mr. Bush's steps to the right.
"I'm absolutely terrified of what's going to happen in the next two to three years," said Charles Slate, 46, who works in sales at a food service company. "If I could leave the country I would. The environmental stuff is at the top of the list. It's obvious to me that any type of legislation that's going to be harmful to profits of large corporations will be in the toilet. I figured it would be a real struggle, but I didn't think they'd try to send the environmental movement back 20 to 30 years."
Mr. Slate, who backed Mr. Gore, did not stop there. "I'm not a fire-breathing Democrat," he said, "but the tax cut is meaningless to all of us who make less than $50,000."
For all their relief that the crew of the American spy plane returned, many Democrats said they worried that the United States was more likely to go to war now that Mr. Bush is in the White House.
"I was personally really impressed with the way he handled keeping us out of war with China," said Brenton Ormsby, 18, an assistant car wash manager who voted for Mr. Gore. "But I have this hunch he might be taking us into war at some time. It's just really scaring me."
Not everyone was black and white about their feelings. Greg Mylet, a junior high school science teacher who voted for Mr. Nader, said at first he was encouraged by the new president.
"I liked how he was going home at 5 and spending time with his family, which is important to me," said Mr. Mylet, 33, as he stopped briefly during a bike ride through a lush park here. "But I've started hearing things that will change what I was feeling about him. I'm concerned we'll have drilling in Alaska."
Mike Harper, 43, who runs an insurance company franchise here, voted for Mr. Gore (whom he calls "the guy who should have took Billy to the dance with him") but he gives accolades to Mr. Bush for appointing African-Americans like Colin L. Powell, the secretary of state.
"I don't think any American should be crying right now," Mr. Harper said. "He's from good stock. He is using minorities and putting them in key leadership roles. I tell my kids, 'You look at Colin Powell. Anything and everything is possible with education.' "
Does that mean that Mr. Harper might end up voting for Republicans? "I can't switch parties," he said. "It's a black thing."
But Ryan Healey, 26, a general contractor who voted for Mr. Gore, said he might reconsider his allegiances. "Everyone says he's not intelligent but I think he seems very presidential," he said of Mr. Bush. "I had pictured him to be a Texas-style half redneck. And I love the tax breaks."
Other Gore backers said Mr. Bush was more conservative than they had expected. "I'm worried about women's reproductive rights," said Erin Payton, 38, a financial consultant. "I'm worried about the environment. His choice of attorney general makes me nervous."
Searching for a bright side, she added, "I was initially concerned he'd be moderate enough that he'd be a two-termer. Now he might be a one-termer like his father."
To all but the most partisan Democrats, the Florida voting debacle seems a long way away. Several Gore backers said they did not think the outcome was fair -- but that they still perceive Mr. Bush as their legitimate president.
In a common refrain, Amy Darrow, 29, a real estate agent, said, "I'm past that. Come on, let's get over it people!"
There are some people in Lake Oswego, like the retired Mr. Taylor, whom Mr. Bush will never satisfy. He even disagrees with those who think the president would be fun to pal around with. "He's not the kind of guy I'd like to sit on the bank and fish with," Mr. Taylor said. "I'd like to throw him in the water."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Walter Taylor -- Retired logging equipment salesman: 'What's going to happen when we get to a point where we really need a leader? To me, he doesn't look like a leader'; Sandy Olson -- Food bank worker: 'He was secure enough that he surrounded himself with competent people so he's not a one-man show.'; Greg Mylet -- Junior high school science teacher: 'I've started hearing things that will change what I was feeling about him. I'm concerned we'll have drilling in Alaska.'; Michael Harper -- Runs insurance company franchise: 'He's from good stock. He is using minorities and putting them in key leadership roles.'; Ryan Healey -- General contractor: 'I think he seems very presidential.'; Sue Grove -- Elementary school assistant: 'I trust him. He's definitely for family.' (Photographs by Shane Young for The New York Times)(pg. A10) Map of Oregon highlighting Oswego: Votes in Lake Oswego, Ore., were closely divided in the 2000 election. (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); PARAEDUCATORS (62%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (60%); FOOD CHARITIES (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (79%); RALPH NADER (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BERKE, RICHARD L 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (70%) OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) LAKE OSWEGO (ORE)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2001 



602 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
ADLY, DR. IBRAHIM K.

 BODY:
 ADLY-Dr. Ibrahim K., 79, died of complications from pneumonia on April 18 in Alexandria, VA. Dr. Adly, who held a Ph.D. in economics from American University, had a distinguished career with the United Nations. 
He served as the Regional Representative for the United Nations Development Program in Kuwait (1966-71), Libya (197177), and Saudi Arabia (1977-82). Prior to joining the UN, he served his native Syria in senior goverment positions and developed the civil service pension system that exists in Syria today. He is survived by his four children, son Khaled of Cairo, Egypt, daughters Mayla Wallschleger, Maria Muhtadi and Nadia of Alexandria, VA; six grandchildren, Justin Adly, Lena, Dean, Casey and Tammy Muhtadi, and Laith Wallschleger. Dr. Adly was preceeded in death by his wife, Lillian, and his sister, Khalidiah. The funeral will be held at the Fairfax Memorial Cemetery in Annandale, VA, on Monday, April 23, at 1 PM. The family will receive friends and relatives at the Jefferson Funeral Chapel in Alexandria, VA, on Sunday, April 22, between 6-8 PM. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (86%); PNEUMONIA (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (54%); CEMETERIES (51%) 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (58%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%)

PERSON: ADLY, DR. IBRAHIM K. 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (76%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); SYRIA (90%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



603 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Seeds of History 

BYLINE:  By Drew Gilpin Faust; Drew Gilpin Faust's most recent book is "Mothers of Invention: Women of the Slaveholding South in the American Civil War."

 BODY:
 BLACK RICE
The African Origins of Rice
Cultivation in the Americas.
By Judith A. Carney.
Illustrated. 240 pp.
Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University Press. $37.50.
 In low-country South Carolina, American slavery assumed a distinctive form, one that has captured the attention of generations of historians. Between the end of the 17th century and the Civil War, hundreds of thousands of people of African descent toiled in swamps, ditches and fields cultivating rice, a crop that by the time of the American Revolution had created a planter aristocracy wealthier than any other group in the British colonies. The high concentrations of slaves in rice-growing areas produced as well a black culture that remained closer to its African roots than that of any other North American slave society. Yet even in South Carolina, where they were a majority of the population, blacks have remained underrepresented in the historical record, partly because they were unable to leave the rich written legacy that immortalized their owners, partly because historians have failed to look closely enough at the evidence that has survived.
In "Black Rice," Judith A. Carney, a professor of geography at the University of California, Los Angeles, finds new "ways to give voice to the historical silences of slavery." Exploring crops, landscapes and agricultural practices in Africa and America, she demonstrates the critical role Africans played in the creation of the system of rice production that provided the foundation of Carolina's wealth.
Carney challenges conventional histories, which describe Europeans adapting an Asian crop to American uses. Arguing persuasively that highly sophisticated forms of rice culture from West Africa preceded the arrival of any knowledge from Asia, she carefully traces the variety of production systems used by Africans in different environments and landscapes, including the elaborate construction of canals and dikes in coastal swamps. The existence of these complex adaptations was ignored by European observers all too ready to dismiss the possibility of technological achievement among African peoples. The "denial of African accomplishment in rice systems," Carney writes, "provides a stunning example of how power relations mediate the production of history." 
Not until well into the 20th century did changing assumptions about race prompt revisions to this story. Since the publication of Peter Wood's pathbreaking "Black Majority" in 1974, historians have recognized a link between African rice cultivation and Carolina's economic success. But Carney's richly detailed analysis gives this connection real specificity.
In order to understand the role of Africans in rice history, Carney argues, it is necessary to think of rice as a "knowledge system" -- not just a plant or a seed but an entire complex of techniques, technology and processing skills. Africans imported as slaves into Carolina possessed this knowledge, and used their understanding to guide phases of evolution in American rice production. 
Thus, after a vast increase in importations of slaves between 1720 and 1740 provided the necessary labor, Carolina rice cultivation, which had begun with upland or rain-fed culture, shifted to higher-yielding inland swamps. The newly arrived Africans created embankments, sluices and canals almost identical to patterns of West African mangrove rice production. With another influx of slaves after 1750, cultivation moved to still more productive tidal flood plains, which required such a large-scale deployment of floodgates, canals and ditches that rice fields became, in one planter's words, a "huge hydraulic machine." This transition, Carney writes, depended on "the large number of slaves imported directly from the rice area of West Africa who possessed knowledge of the crop's cultivation." 
Carolina planters even knew which African ethnic groups were expert in rice growing and explicitly favored them in their purchases of new slaves. A newspaper in Charleston, for example, advertised the sale of 250 slaves "from the Windward and Rice Coast, valued for their knowledge of rice culture." 
The knowledge system Carney describes called for different roles and distinctive kinds of expertise for men and women, and these aspects of rice culture were also transported to the New World. Women played a critical part in seed selection, sowing, hoeing and processing of rice. The importance of these skills enabled slave traders to command higher prices for women in Carolina rice-growing areas than in other American slave markets.
The Carolina rice kingdom, the foundation of power in a state that would eventually lead the South out of the nation, came into being because African slaves had mastered -- and shared -- the techniques necessary for growing rice seeds in standing water. "Why," Carney asks, "would West African slaves transfer to planters a sophisticated agricultural system . . . that would in turn impose upon them unrelenting toil throughout the year?" The knowledge of rice cultivation, she concludes, provided slaves arriving in South Carolina with a crucial negotiating tool, enabling them to bargain for labor arrangements that guaranteed them greater autonomy than in any other Southern agricultural environment. 
In cotton-growing areas a system of gang labor prevailed that required unremitting work from dawn till dusk. But on South Carolina rice plantations task labor was the rule. Once their tasks were accomplished, slaves could turn to their own gardens, or manage their own time in other ways. Task labor introduced a degree of freedom into slavery's oppression. 
But Carney is careful not to be too celebratory about the leverage Africans achieved as a result of their knowledge and skill. As rice became a commodity in high international demand, even the structures of the task system could not protect Carolina slaves from almost ceaseless labor.
This detailed study of historical botany, technological adaptation and agricultural diffusion adds depth to our understanding of slavery and makes a compelling case for "the agency of slaves" in the creation of the South's economy and culture. But Carney also illuminates another of the almost limitless ironies of Southern history. The knowledge and creativity of Africans created an agricultural system in South Carolina that was based firmly on their own enslavement and exploitation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HISTORY (90%); SLAVERY (90%); RICE FARMING (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); LITERATURE (66%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: DREW GILPIN FAUST (58%) FAUST, DREW GILPIN; CARNEY, JUDITH A 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (95%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

TITLE: BLACK RICE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



604 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1482 words

HEADLINE: Everybody Wants One 

BYLINE:  By Michael Massing; Michael Massing is the author of "The Fix," a study of United States drug policy since the 1960's.

 BODY:
 GOING UP THE RIVER
Travels in a Prison Nation.
By Joseph T. Hallinan.
262 pp. New York:
Random House. $24.95.
 Just before the start of the year 2000, the number of people in American jails and prisons surpassed two million for the first time. This was up from 1.5 million in 1995 and 500,000 in 1980. Every week, the nation's prison population swells by about 1,000 -- enough to fill two new prisons. This growth has occurred even as the crime rate has fallen, by about 16 percent since 1995.
Criminologists have advanced a number of reasons to explain this seeming contradiction. The tougher sentences passed over the last 15 years have meant longer terms of confinement. The cutback or outright elimination of parole in many states has sharply reduced the number of early releases. The war on drugs has served up a steady stream of bodies to the criminal justice system. Some experts maintain that there is no discrepancy between rising prison populations and falling crime rates -- that the former has helped bring about the latter. 
In "Going Up the River," Joseph T. Hallinan offers a novel, and disturbing, explanation for the relentless rise in the prison population. A reporter for The Wall Street Journal, Hallinan spent four years visiting prisons -- traveling from one to another, he writes, "the way some might travel Civil War battlefields, ticking off the famous sites." He visited the Limestone Correctional Center in Capshaw, Ala., where inmates wearing iron shackles around their ankles spend their days smashing boulders with sledgehammers. He visited the Oklahoma State Penitentiary in McAlester, where 10,000 spectators at a prison rodeo roared as bronco-riding inmates were thrown to the ground, knocked unconscious and trampled. He spent much of his time in Texas, which, since 1991, has undertaken the most extensive prison-building program in United States history. At its peak, in 1995 (when George W. Bush was governor), the state was opening one new prison nearly every week.
Hallinan also traveled back in time, in a sense, to some early landmark prisons, like the Eastern State Penitentiary in Philadelphia. Opened in 1829, Eastern State was created by Quakers. Abhorring corporal punishment, they believed in not merely confining inmates but in reforming them. To that end, they stressed work and solitude. Inmates were made to serve their entire sentence inside their cells, working alone, eating alone, praying alone. This, the Quakers believed, would lead to penitence -- hence the name, "penitentiary." Penologists of the day proclaimed the prison an extraordinarily humane institution, but Charles Dickens, visiting while on a tour of the United States, found it barbaric. "Over the head and face of every prisoner who comes into this melancholy house," he wrote, "a black hood is drawn; and in this dark shroud, an emblem of the curtain dropped between him and the living world, he is led to the cell from which he never again comes forth, until his whole term of imprisonment has expired." 
Such cruelties seem to belong to some bygone era, but, as Hallinan discovered, the conditions in today's prisons are no less severe. In language that is simple and unadorned, he describes scenes that are graphic and unsettling. At the Pelican Bay State Prison in Crescent City, Calif., for instance -- one of a new generation of ultramodern, ultraexpensive "supermaxes" -- the conditions "press the outer bounds of what most humans can psychologically tolerate," as one judge put it. About 1,500 of the 3,800 inmates live in a special Security Housing Unit, or SHU. (Among them is Charles Manson.) Inmates are kept inside their tiny cells 22 1/2 hours a day. Most have cellmates, but one-third are kept alone. And their stays can last for years.
"The SHU is designed to deaden the senses," Hallinan writes. "The cells are windowless; the walls are white. From inside the cell, all one can see through the perforated metal door is another white wall." A Harvard Medical School psychiatrist who interviewed 55 inmates over a two-week period found the SHU to be a breeding ground of psychosis. Nonetheless, Hallinan reports, many inmates sought to be assigned to it, so pervasive was the violence in the rest of the facility. "Pelican Bay inmates," he notes, "have had their arms broken, their eyes gouged out, their brains splattered." 
Visiting Pelican Bay, Hallinan was struck by its similarities to Eastern State: "It has the same fortresslike construction, the same use of isolation and sensory deprivation, the same resulting mental illness." The primary difference, he observes, is that while Eastern State genuinely sought to reform its inmates, Pelican Bay "makes no such pretense. . . . It is Eastern State minus the hope." What's more, he notes, such supermaxes are proliferating. The same is true of solitary confinement. On any given day, thousands of inmates nationwide are kept in "administrative segregation," as it's now called. The experience, Hallinan says, drives many to the brink of madness. 
Each prison Hallinan visits seems to feature its own form of depravity. At the state prison in Corcoran, Calif., rival gang members were pitted against each other in "human cockfights" while guards placed bets. In Alabama, a state on the cutting edge of penal punishment, inmates caught masturbating are required to wear special flamingo-pink uniforms. At the Ad Seg section of the McConnell Unit in Beeville, Tex., up to a dozen assaults occur every day, and guards wear safety glasses to protect them from the feces, urine and food that are regularly hurled at them. 
Despite such conditions, Hallinan found, people were eager to work in these institutions. For the jobs are considered very desirable. At the McConnell Unit, for instance, a corrections officer after 18 months earns $24,324 a year -- nearly three times the county's per capita income of $8,600. The prison was also valued for the boost it gave the local economy. Since the opening of McConnell and a second unit, Beeville had gotten "a new Taco Bell, a new movie theater and three State Farm agents where before there had been only one." Interestingly, back in the 1960's, most communities in Texas had opposed all efforts to build prisons in their backyards. But in the mid-1980's the state's oil industry collapsed, and by 1990 prisons had come to be seen as "engines of economic salvation."
As in Texas, so in the rest of the country. In Tamms, Ill., Hallinan reports, local residents love their new prison so much that the local sandwich shop renamed its specialty after it: the "Supermax burger." Fremont County, Colo. -- home to 13 prisons -- proudly bills itself as the Corrections Capital of the World. And the residents of Wallens Ridge, Va. -- devastated by the closing of a local coal mining company -- rejoiced when the state decided to build two new prisons in the area. At the opening ceremony for one of them, Gov. James S. Gilmore III told 200 attending dignitaries that the prison "shows we can make a difference. We can create jobs and prosperity and protect people while we're doing it." 
It was good for everybody in Wallens Ridge, Hallinan notes, except the inmates. Because of the prison's remote location -- the nearest bus stop was 50 miles away -- it was hard for friends and family members to visit. In addition, the local county was one of the whitest in the state, guaranteeing that most of the guards would be white; most of the state's inmates, meanwhile, are black. Such disparities are considered a recipe for racial tension. All of this was secondary, however, to job considerations. Across the United States, Hallinan writes, prisons have become public works projects, requiring a steady flow of inmates to sustain them. 
Hallinan dismisses the notion that America may have built so many prisons out of a genuine fear of crime. Just as the threat of Communism was used to justify the creation of a vast military-industrial complex in the 1950's, he writes, so the threat of crime is being used today to justify the creation of a prison-industrial complex. This, I think, goes too far. "Going Up the River" makes no mention of the wave of violence that swept the United States in the late 1970's and again in the late 1980's, when the crack epidemic made drive-by shootings and street-corner executions a fixture in the nation's cities. As a result, Hallinan seems blind to the very real concerns of Americans about the safety of their streets. And he never even joins the debate over how much of a deterrent effect all those new prisons have had. 
Nonetheless, Hallinan's larger point -- that the building of prisons in the United States has taken on a life of its own -- seems unassailable. By documenting the vested interest many Americans now have in building more prisons, he has made a valuable contribution to the debates over crime and punishment in America.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Heath Hinegardner)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (92%); CRIME RATES (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); SENTENCING (78%); PAROLE (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); CIVIL WAR (73%); DRUG POLICY (69%); HISTORIC SITES (69%); LITERATURE (66%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%) MASSING, MICHAEL; HALLINAN, JOSEPH T 

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: GOING UP THE RIVER (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



605 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 4; Magazine Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 4-22-01; 
I, Pollinator

BYLINE:  By Michael Pollan; Michael Pollan is a contributing writer for the magazine. This essay is adapted from his new book, "The Botany of Desire," which will be published next month.

 BODY:
For a while there, it looked as if this might be the year it never happened, but the gardening season has arrived at last. Last week the peas went in, finally, and today I'll plant potatoes. Nights are still way too cold to put out the tender vegetables -- tomatoes and the like -- but on my windowsills their seedlings are already pressing against the pane, leaning into the strengthening sun and the traffic of bees building outside. Am I the only gardener who, especially at this time of year, identifies with these bees? I doubt it. Sooner or later, most gardeners begin to look at things from the perspective of their plants -- and from a plant's point of view, there's really not a whole lot of difference between a human being and a bumblebee.
 We humans like to think we call all the shots in our gardens; like local forces of natural selection, we decide which species survive and which disappear. Even our grammar makes the terms of the relationship perfectly clear: I choose the plants; I harvest the crops. It's a world of subjects and objects, and here in the garden, as in nature generally, we are the sovereign subjects. 
 But the longer I garden, and watch the bees at work beside me, the more I think that that grammar is completely wrong. No doubt the bee, too, thinks he's got the better of the blossom, but the truth is that the flower has cleverly manipulated him into hauling its pollen from blossom to blossom. This is the classic example of what scientists call coevolution. In a coevolutionary bargain like the one struck by the bees and the flowers, the two parties act on each other to advance their individual interests but wind up trading favors: food for the bee, gene-transport for the plants.
Matters between me and the potatoes I'm planting really aren't any different. We, too, are partners in a coevolutionary relationship, as we have been since the birth of agriculture. Like the flower, whose form and scent and color have been selected by bees over countless generations, the size and taste of the potato have been selected over generations by us -- by Incas and Irishmen and McDonald's customers. Bees and humans alike have their criteria for selection: symmetry and sweetness for the bee, heft and nutritional value for the human. 
The fact that one of us has evolved to become intermittently aware of these desires makes no difference whatsoever to the flower or the potato. All the plants care about is what every organism cares about on the most basic genetic level: making more copies of itself. Through trial and error, these plant species have discovered that the best way to accomplish that is to induce animals -- bees, people -- to spread their genes far and wide. How? By playing on those animals' desires, conscious and otherwise. The flowers and spuds that do this most effectively are the ones that get to be fruitful and multiply.
So did I choose to plant "my" potatoes or did the spuds make me do it? Both. I can remember the exact moment the fingerlings seduced me, showing off their knobby charms in the pages of a seed catalog. The tasty-sounding "buttery yellow flesh" sealed it. A trivial, semiconscious event, it never occurred to me that our catalog encounter had any evolutionary consequence whatsoever. But evolution consists of countless trivial, unconscious events, and in the continuing evolution of the potato, my perusal of that catalog is one of them.
As soon as you start looking at things this way, the garden appears before you in a whole new light, the manifold delights it offers to the eye and nose and tongue no longer quite so innocent or passive. All these foods and flowers, which we're accustomed to regarding as merely the objects of our desire, are also, you realize, acting on us, getting us to do things for them they can't do for themselves. So who's really domesticating whom?
I find something heartening in this upside-down perspective. For centuries now, we humans have overestimated our power over nature, with the result that we've lost the knack of imagining ourselves in nature, as one species existing in a web of other species -- which is, of course, what we still are and will always be. Even the "invention of agriculture" -- perhaps the most far-reaching change to this planet we've wrought -- is something we could never have pulled off without the active participation of other species, the ones that seized the new evolutionary opportunity when it presented itself. So the grasses and cows, the apples and the poppies began to evolve in the direction of our desires -- for nutrition, for sweetness, even for intoxication. And we in turn remade the earth (and ourselves) to accommodate them, plowing the soil, chopping down trees and turning into farmers.
The wonder is that we don't look upon domesticated species - the grasses, the cows, the apples, the dogs -- with more respect for their evolutionary cleverness. Why is it the wolf wins our admiration, when it is the dog at our feet that's natural history's big winner? So this afternoon when you're out mowing the lawn, blithely assuming you've got all those crew-cut blades marching crisply to your orders, consider all that the grasses have achieved. I'd always assumed that the weekly mowing does the grasses no favor, is strictly for our benefit, but of course mowing's ecological point is to keep the forest at bay. Along with the fields of wheat and the meadows, lawns are something the grasses have done to us, a most ingenious strategy for conquering the trees. 

GRAPHIC: "Today homeowners can realize a potential increase of 5 to 15 percent in property values when the property is complemented by an attractive lawn and landscape. A healthy turf also filters ground water, retards the spread of fire and absorbs gas pollutants, dust and pollen."A Gallup survey reported that 9 out of 10 U.S. households recognize the value of a well-maintained lawn and landscape. Aesthetic and economic benefits were among the top reasons why Americans value their lawns." -- From a Professional LawnCare Association of Americapress release, spring 2001Photo (Hulton Getty) Chart: "Green Grow The Grasses Ho""The greening of America's more than 25 million acres of lawns signals the arrival of spring. In recognition of this annual burst of color, the Professional Lawn Care Association of America designates April as National Lawn Care Month. . . ."Today homeowners can realize a potential increase of 5 to 15 percent in property values when the property is complemented by an attractive lawn and landscape. A healthy turf also filters ground water, retards the spread of fire and absorbs gas pollutants, dust and pollen."A Gallup survey reported that 9 out of 10 U.S. households recognize the value of a well-maintained lawn and landscape. Aesthetic and economic benefits were among the top reasons why Americans value their lawns." -- From a Professional LawnCare Association of Americapress release, spring 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GARDENING (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); ANIMALS (73%); NUTRITION (72%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (68%); FAST FOOD (67%); EVOLUTION THEORY (67%) GARDENS AND GARDENING; POTATOES 

ORGANIZATION: PROFESSIONAL LAWN CARE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%)

PERSON: POLLAN, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



606 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: COUNTY LINES; 
A Reluctant Killer

BYLINE:  By MAREK FUCHS 

 BODY:
KEN ALMSTEAD has a passion for healing but is called upon to kill. 
 Wearing glasses and a brown shirt, Mr. Almstead is a tree doctor who speaks with unshakable vim on the subjects of corrective pruning, deep-root fertilization, infestation inoculations and other procedures to save the life of a tree. His energy lags at talk of killing them. 
 Mr. Almstead's love for trees is carried along his genetic code. His father and brother are tree doctors, and together they run the Almstead Tree and Shrub Care Company. It was started by Mr. Almstead's father 38 years ago and is now a local empire with offices in New Rochelle, Hawthorne, Stamford, Conn., and Franklin Lakes, N.J. It has 200 employees and 60 trucks. A full 85 percent of its business involves tree and shrub care, Mr. Almstead's joy. Then there is the remaining 15 percent: the takedowns.
There are cases, of course, when trees are consumed by trouble and euthanasia is a matter of safety, like when a doomed tree looms undependably over a backyard swing set. And then there are the requests that all but produce acid reflux in Mr. Almstead.
Sometimes a tree has dropped one too many prickly balls into a pool, or maybe it was guilty of carpet bombing hickory nuts onto a Lexus. To avenge the offense, Mr. Almstead is called in and told not to spare the tree. Other times the tree's crime is preventing its owners from sunning themselves on their deck.
But Mr. Almstead, who decided to try the family business for a year after graduating from Syracuse University in 1992 and promptly "fell in love" with "saving everything from a 300-year-old beech tree to a brand new ornamental weeping cherry," doesn't want to act as a pawn (albeit a well-paid one) in a plan he detests. The result is a tough situation to navigate.
After all, Mr. Almstead can't simply walk away from every request to fell a healthy tree. Make a practice of walking away from jobs and you soon won't be walking toward any. And the vast majority of his work (85 percent, don't forget) involves saving trees.
Besides, walk away and someone else will do the deed, and what is gained from refusing tree "blood money" only to let the sap drip from someone else's hands? 
So Mr. Almstead tries to persuade people not to make the unkind cut, laying out arguments that run the gamut from the aesthetic to the economic.
"If I walk onto a property and see a 250-year-old white oak," he said, "I can relay to a person that they have something special." When someone "works in the concrete jungle, in their fantasy of getting away, back to nature" trees should be central.
When that doesn't work, he'll play the money card. Though some might consider the concept sacrilegious, with trees good economics and a good environment are entwined. Cutting one down so that you can sun yourself costs more than, say, trimming its canopy.
And while maintaining the tree is cheaper for the owner, it offers more long-term profit for Mr. Almstead. Taking down a tree provides a one-time shot of revenue, but maintaining it provides evergreen income. Mr. Almstead also quotes figures that fix 20 percent of a house's value on landscaping. And he'll also highlight how shade reduces the need for air-conditioning.
Sometimes Mr. Almstead will even make a case that will net him no money: he has told homeowners that a tree's nettlesome acorn production is a function of, say, record spring rains and won't recur for years. 
But does a round of trying to talk homeowners out of cutting down a tree dispatch Mr. Almstead's ethical duty? 
Because there are occasions when Mr. Almstead will take the money and cut. Recently, for example, a good customer wanted a majestic tree down and Mr. Almstead did as asked. If he hadn't, Mr. Almstead would have probably lost his client. So chopping down one tree allowed him to keep attending to the health of many other trees for years to come.
Was this wrong? If Mr. Almstead finds the task so disagreeable, should he walk away, no matter what the consequences? Is any thought to the contrary the sort of moral relativism that sends society toward a place where personal ethical standards float on the tide of convenience? 
Mr. Almstead, wearing that shirt the color of bark, has no easy answers. All he knows is that, in the end, we live lives of perpetual motion in which only trees are still, almost magically so. "I mean, boom!" Mr. Almstead says. "A tree."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Doniger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (78%); COUNTIES (74%); FAMILY COMPANIES (70%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (56%) TREES AND SHRUBS 

ORGANIZATION: ALMSTEAD TREE AND SHRUB CARE CO 

PERSON: ALMSTEAD, KEN; FUCHS, MAREK 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



607 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2818 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC; 
Taking Movie Music Seriously, Like It or Not

BYLINE:  By DAVID SCHIFF; David Schiff is a composer on the faculty of Reed College in Portland, Ore.

 BODY:
FOR two years in a row, the Academy Award for best film score has gone to a classical composer: first John Corigliano for "The Red Violin," then Tan Dun for "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon." While cynics claim that this is the film industry's way of advertising its high-art pretensions, Hollywood may really be ahead of New York in acknowledging that the opposition between film music and concert music is a phantom of the last century. Today the two styles constantly interact. John Williams's scores for George Lucas's "Star Wars" movies and for Steven Spielberg's "Jaws" and "Close Encounters of the Third Kind," which resurrected the symphonic style for film in the 70's, have also exerted a huge influence on the work of young concert composers. Philip Glass's music for "Koyaanisqatsi" made Minimalism an essential component of any film composer's stylistic vocabulary. 
 Now the American Composers Orchestra is catching up with the Motion Picture Academy, presenting a "Hollywood" concert this afternoon at Carnegie Hall that culminates a two-week series of small concerts and film screenings. The program, conducted by Dennis Russell Davies, includes music for two camp classics, the Hollywood "expose" "The Bad and the Beautiful" (David Raksin, composer) and Alfred Hitchcock's Freudian whodunit "Spellbound" (Miklos Rozsa); the cult sci-fi thriller "The Thing" (Dimitri Tiomkin); and Hitchcock's unavoidable "Psycho" (Bernard Herrmann). Except for "Psycho," none of these is a pinnacle of cinematic art, but each score is a milestone in film music. 
 The orchestra's warm embrace of Hollywood may be a deceptive sign of a thaw in the longstanding cold war between the musical cultures of the two coasts. Last year, when Washington had other scandals to think about, a minor Beltway drama -- call it Kamengate -- erupted around a concert by the National Symphony Orchestra that included the premiere of Michael Kamen's "New Moon in the Old Moon's Arms." Mr. Kamen is a Juilliard-trained composer of many film scores, including "Mr. Holland's Opus." But for Philip Kennicott, the music critic of The Washington Post, he represents everything wrong with music today.
Mr. Kennicott dismissed Mr. Kamen's symphony as "pretentious and pernicious tonal tripe . . . scored in the usual sodden and overripe Hollywood manner." And he blasted the National Symphony for commissioning a "well-remunerated Hollywood hack" who "doesn't need to be dipping into the paltry amount that's available to composers of serious music." Mr. Kennicott seemed to assume that commissions, like welfare payments, should be based on need. And he was nearly as harsh on works by non-Hollywood composers, criticizing Richard Danielpour's "Voice of Remembrance" as "a succession of familiar moods and feelings." In other words, it sounded like film music.
Mr. Kamen's mediocre score hardly deserved so much ink, but Mr. Kennicott's bile, like Mr. Kamen's music, sounded recycled. The classical world's anti-Hollywood bias goes back to the dawn of film music in the 1930's, when Max Steiner established the genre with "King Kong." During the Depression, New York and Hollywood contrasted starkly. Economically, New York was broke, Hollywood was rich. Politically, New York was left, Hollywood was right.
But sound movies were new, and Hollywood needed composers; a musical gold rush was on. As lights dimmed on Broadway, Irving Berlin, Jerome Kern and the Gershwins headed west, as did Copland, Herrmann, Alex North and Jerome Moross. While the tunesmiths happily adjusted to life in paradise, modernist composers like Copland were put off by the power politics of the studio system and the lush late-Romantic style of established studio composers like Steiner and Erich Wolfgang Korngold.
In a sense, Hollywood was the new Versailles or Eszterhaza. The studio moguls were princes of patronage, but composers had grown used to neglect and forgotten the advantages and disadvantages of steady employment. Every composer who got close enough to dance with the devil had a Hollywood horror story to send back east.
Disney's "Fantasia" (1940) turned Stravinsky's "Rite of Spring" into "an unresisting imbecility," in the composer's phrase, with drastic cuts and "Jurassic Park" animation. Since the score lacked copyright protection because of the Russian Revolution, Stravinsky had no choice but to accept Disney's modest remuneration and immodest editorial insults. Still, he continued to seek out film projects, with little success. (Music he wrote for "The Commandos Strike at Dawn" in 1943 ended up as "Four Norwegian Moods," also to be played by the American Composers Orchestra.)
Stravinsky's archrival, Schoenberg, fared no better. Irving Thalberg hoped that Schoenberg's name would lend intellectual cachet to "The Good Earth" (1937), the MGM prestige epic based on Pearl Buck's novel. Whether in a state of delusion or merely seeking an escape hatch, Schoenberg wanted to compose pitches and rhythms for the actors' lines and demanded final editing rights. He claimed to be relieved when the collaboration fell through, saying, "It would have been the end of me."
For the oater "Duel in the Sun" (Vanguard, 1947), David Selznick demanded that Tiomkin whistle first a love theme, then an orgasm theme. William Wyler replaced Copland's title music for "The Heiress" (Paramount, 1949) as soon as the composer left town. There are more stories, and worse.
In a 1940 New York Times article on film music, Copland praised the new genre but attacked Steiner's 19th-century style, his use of leitmotifs and his dependence on "mickey-mousing." Although Copland continued to work successfully in Hollywood through 1948, his writings confirmed the East Coast view that the industry was dominated by studio hacks working in a reactionary idiom. By contrast, Hollywood honored Copland with an Oscar (for "The Heiress," despite its non-Copland title music) and quickly appropriated his lean, modernist style for psychological dramas and the grander horse operas.
Composers who remained in Hollywood were given the cold shoulder by New York. Paul Chihara said recently that Herrmann and Rozsa bitterly resented the refusal of the concert world to take their music seriously. But Mr. Chihara, whose "Clouds (. . . From Out of the Past)" receives its premiere in the American Composers Orchestra program, exemplifies the way times have changed. A student of Nadia Boulanger with a doctorate in composition from Cornell, he has won numerous prizes and commissions for his classical scores. He has also composed for more than 80 films, including "Crossing Delancey" and "Prince of the City," and television series, including "China Beach" and the current A & E series "100 Centre Street."
The smoky, sinuous title trumpet solo for "100 Centre Street" begins like a film noir cliche but takes a series of surprising harmonic turns that sound more like the devices of a concert composer. "I used to think I was writing in two different styles, but now they have come together," Mr. Chihara said. "Things changed for me when people told me I wasn't weird but postmodern."
Mr. Chihara, who teaches at U.C.L.A., is in constant demand as a guest lecturer at university music departments and conservatories that used to ignore film music. For either artistic or economic reasons, the old stigma against commercial music has disappeared. "Today composition teachers want to make sure their students know how to write for movies," Mr. Chihara said.
Film music and concert music are converging in style and technology. Postmodernism, a style that emerged in the early 1970's, dominates American concert music today, but it took a while to be properly understood. George Crumb, David Del Tredici and Mr. Corigliano were, like Mr. Chihara, postmodern before the term was invented. They all mixed styles fearlessly and experimented with amplification. In his Clarinet Concerto (1977), Mr. Corigliano, whose East Coast credentials were just recertified by a Pulitzer Prize for his Symphony No. 2 for String Orchestra, placed instruments around the hall, less in imitation of Gabrieli and Ives than in anticipation of THX and surround sound.
Whereas modernist music emphasized structural and stylistic integrity, postmodern music is a polystylistic hybrid, mingling and matching incongruous elements with a heavy dose of irony -- just like film music. Listen to Franz Waxman's title track for "Sunset Boulevard," and then listen to John Adams's "Chairman Dances": they are not just stylistically similar; they are virtually the same piece.
Mr. Raksin's score for "The Bad and the Beautiful" (MGM, 1952) shows how much composers today have learned from the Hollywood masters. The film itself is a couple of tall steps below such behind-the-scenes sagas as "Sunset Boulevard" and "Singin' in the Rain," though not without its gripping moments. Teetering between conscious and unconscious self-parody, it shows a brutish genius director, played by Kirk Douglas, abusing his closest friends and lovers to make "great" movies.
Pauline Kael described "The Bad and the Beautiful" as a "spangled, overwrought piece of Hollywood self-analysis" but also wrote that the director, Vincente Minnelli, gave it a "hysterical stylishness." A lot of that stylishness and hysteria is Mr. Raksin's doing. He captures the studio's seductive glamour with a romantic theme not far below his classic, "Laura"; then, as the film tours the backlots, he serves up 15-second pastiches of B-movie scores. How many "serious" composers could evoke a cardboard cowboy-and-Indian film or a Saturday morning science fiction potboiler in such a fleeting window of opportunity?
Mr. Raksin's underscore itself is a series of ironic allusions: here a little Gershwin, there a little Ellington. In one scene, Mr. Douglas carries a limp Lana Turner in his arms against a backdrop of stormy skies. The music surges with passion in the grandest Steineresque manner. Then Mr. Douglas drops Ms. Turner into a swimming pool to sober her up, and we realize that Mr. Raksin has been parodying Hollywood's dream-factory style to sober us up as well. Interestingly, the most dramatic scene in the film, Ms. Turner driving off in terror from Mr. Douglas's ultimate act of cruelty, has no music: the ultimate form of musical irony.
Mr. Raksin's ironic juxtapositions of style make him the grandfather of current postmodernists like John Zorn and Michael Daugherty. But the collapse of the wall separating film music and art music may be a question of technology more than of style. Because it depends on recording, Hollywood has always been in the forefront of musical science, sculpturing and styling performances through microphone placement, overdubbing and editing. Both Rozsa's "Spellbound" and Tiomkin's "Thing" feature that quintessentially eerie electronic instrument, the theremin. Gregory Peck's amnesiac character in "Spellbound" seems to be suffering from theremin on the brain as well as what Ingrid Bergman keeps calling his "guilt complex."
Sixty years ago Copland enthusiastically reported on the technology of film scoring, the fine art of coordinating music and image. But today only a few composers -- notably, John Williams -- fit their music to the screen action in the time-honored way. The artistry with which Mr. Williams's Oscar-nominated score for "The Patriot" minutely matches the action proves the value of the traditional method, but both the artistry and the method may already be anachronistic.
"There really is no such thing as Hollywood music anymore," Mr. Chihara said. "It's all done in a garage in North Hollywood." Composers are now expected to produce the music, not just write it. Most of the music you hear on television and at the movies uses sound synthesis instead of live performers or in addition to them. The blend of live and synthesized sounds is a signature of Hans Zimmer, whose Electronica-does-Holst score for "Gladiator" was nominated for an Oscar this year. Synthesized music is cheaper, and young people, the target audience, prefer its sound.
Today the audio and video components of a film come together not on a soundstage but on a computer screen. Editing software allows composers to stretch or compress the music as needed. The new technologies may reinforce the old prejudice, resurrected by Mr. Kennicott, that film composers lack traditional musical technique. Although composers like Mr. Kamen and James Horner ("Titanic") have full conservatory credentials, it is quite possible these days to compose and produce film music with little traditional musical training. The industry is full of notorious "hummers," whose careers depend on armies of unnamed technical assistants.
But synthesizers and computer editing are transforming concert music as well. Music publishing in its older form has virtually disappeared. Every composer today is expected to produce scores at home; all you need is a computer and a printer. And performers routinely ask composers to provide computer playback along with a score; conductors no longer even pretend to be able to imagine a score silently.
The next step is for the computer playback to begin to replace some or all aspects of live performance. As in film music, this development is spurred by economics and esthetics. Recent scores like Mr. Adams's "Gnarly Buttons" depend on a synthesizer to give the music a sound that younger listeners will recognize as contemporary. Perhaps concert music will have its share of hummers before long, if they're not out there already.
Still, there remain fundamental differences in the functioning of concert and film genres, which cause problems when composers try to cross over. The central difference is one of speed. Concert music has to fill a lot of time, but most film music cues are brief. This difference became important only with the advent of talkies. Silent movies required continuous music to cover the sound of the projector and create continuity in a flickering medium. Concert composers had room to stretch without skirting around dialogue, so they did not have to change their musical habits.
Copland's first film, "The City," was a documentary, with a voice-over but no on-screen speech, and most of the music he used for the Suite From "The Red Pony" comes from nondramatic parts of the film. Because "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" uses subtitles rather than dubbed dialogue, it works like a silent movie with broad swaths of music; a lot of it feels like a Yo-Yo Ma video.
With the talkies, film music became more fragmentary and film composing more specialized. In Mr. Raksin's "Bad and the Beautiful" score, for instance, most cues after the sustained opening are less than a minute long. This imposed brevity made film music seem irreconcilable with the concert hall. Concert composers keep their music going by a strategy of postponement, setting up expectations and delaying their fulfillment, but a film composer has to deliver the goods quickly.
A memorable example of instantaneous evocation comes in Copland's score for "The Heiress." The heroine waits for a lover who will never arrive. When preview audiences laughed at Olivia de Haviland's predicament, Copland added a sudden gust of whirling woodwind music, which perfectly captured her state of nervous expectancy. The music feels like a muscle spasm. (Did someone ask Copland to whistle a muscle spasm?) The film creates suspense by keeping us waiting to see if the caddish Montgomery Clift will ever show up; the music makes the woman's agony real, and in a matter or seconds.
HERRMANN said he did not have time for an eight-bar tune; he built his film scores from two-second motifs that could do their job no matter how brief a musical cue might be. But for concertgoers used to waiting 20 minutes for Beethoven to answer his own musical question, a succession of cues does not add up to a symphonic experience, especially when they are detached from the images they serve to amplify.
The concert hall automatically gives its own composers an edge. Some, when they cross over, conceive the concert version of their music simultaneously with the film score, as Copland did with "The Red Pony" and Mr. Corigliano did with "The Red Violin." Herrmann's "Psycho" Suite is a more complicated example, for the film score made use of a previously composed symphonic composition, but most listeners are just waiting for the shower scene anyway.
Blame postmodernism or technology, but our expectations of symphonic structure have diminished; we live in an age of short attention spans and sound bites, after all, and delayed gratification is so 19th century. We also live in an eye rather than an ear culture. Many orchestras are talking about using some kind of video even for their classical concerts: the MTV-ization of the concert hall. When that happens, and it won't be long, everything really will be film music.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Chihara at a rehearsal in 1992. "Things changed for me when people told me I wasn't weird but postmodern," he said. (Dean Wong)(pg. 36) Drawing (David McLimans)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); FILM (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (78%); COLD WAR (75%); MUSIC REVIEWS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%) MUSIC; MOTION PICTURES 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (90%); WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN COMPOSERS ORCHESTRA (82%) AMERICAN COMPOSERS ORCHESTRA 

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (58%); GEORGE LUCAS (58%) SCHIFF, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



608 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: ART; 
Tranquil Landscapes And Scenes of Tallyho!

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM ZIMMER 

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH hunting is one of the major subjects in the featured show at the Yale Center for British Art, viewers are not required to pursue rare quarry. Rather, the 160 paintings plus sculptures, works on paper and rare books proliferate before their eyes.
 The exhibition is "The Paul Mellon Bequest: Treasures of a Lifetime," and it includes items from Mellon's final bequest to the center, which was his brainchild. They had been in his personal possession until his death in February 1999. 
 Mellon, born in 1907, was the son of the financier Andrew Mellon, but he refused to enter the family business or do anything resembling making a livelihood. Instead, England made a great impression on him when he attended Cambridge University after graduating from Yale and his subsequent career could be described as that of Anglophile. He became the most important collector of all time in the field of British art.
The fox hunting pictures are the core of the show, or at least they command the most attention because they are full of variety and action. But there are also other categories, some related to hunting and some not. The show's section on English country life is highlighted by oil sketches by John Constable whose subject, like the later Impressionists, was the changing light. Mellon wrote that he thought Constable's small paintings were equal to his masterpieces in technique and mastery of brush.
Mellon's favorite artist was George Stubbs, widely known for his paintings of horses, but in his personal collection Mellon had paintings by Stubbs that meticulously capture the precise demeanor of hunting dogs, including lean foxhounds and a curly-haired water spaniel. The English countryside has a reputation for tranquillity, and a super-still Greenland falcon on a perch and a bit of exotica, a sleeping leopard, are also among the Stubbs holdings. 
Needless to say, Mellon was a thoroughgoing horse lover. The affinity is demonstrated by the painting at the entrance to the show on which he is shown on his horse, Dublin. While the hunting paintings feature riding to the hounds, horses in many other roles run through the exhibition. Not least is a stylized, somewhat fantastic white one by William Blake. The small painting illustrates an incident in a ballad in which a mother intervenes between her young son and a runaway horse. She tames the animal by staring it straight in the eye.
Among the horse paintings are portraits. Often they are of the horse alone but much interest is added when people -- owners, riders or stableboys -- who have dealings with the animals complete the composition. Horses with boys, those who have the least economic interest in the animals but are emotionally the closest to them, are models for representing affection without anything cloying. "Pumpkin With a Stable-lad," a painting by Stubbs, is a prime example of this as is his "Lustre, Held by a Groom." "Muly Moloch Being Rubbed Down at Newmarket" is involving in this regard, for it shows a boy working with the former racehorse that has what is described in the catalog as "an uncooperative demeanor." Three men off to the side look like they're discussing his fate.
The full-blown hunting paintings are exciting for several reasons, among them all that red. Hunting jackets seem to have changed little over the centuries. This consistency, that of a ritual, is alluring.
Viewers might feel that if Mellon's fox-hunting paintings were displayed end to end, the result would be something like a filmstrip. A central scene would be "John Sidey and His Friends at a Farmhouse Near Hadleigh, Suffolk" painted by James Dunthorne in 1765. The title, though descriptive, does not convey the startling visual excitement of a relentless pack of hounds having chased a fox onto the pitched roof of a farmhouse. Hunters, in drab dress, wait below.
The most remarkable painting in the exhibition, because it seems very modern and possessing psychological depth, is the large "John Gubbins Newton and His Sister, Mary Newton" painted circa 1833 by Robert Burnard. The human figures, plus a horse and dog, seem locked in a stillness that belies the bustle around a fox hunt. John Newton, seated on the horse, has a determined look as he cleans the inside of a hat that seems too big for him. His sister is waiting to hand him his riding crop. It's like he's headed for battle, or at least for growing up.
The collection also emphasizes racing, which in some cases seems like fox hunting tamed. Part of the appeal of racing, as with fox hunting, is that it has changed little.
Mellon's collection reached into the 20th century. Paintings by Alfred Munnings, Mellon's favorite contemporary artist (the one who painted him on Dublin), stand out not only for their pale colors but also for their animated brush strokes. Another modern artist included liberally is Robert Bevan, who often represents horses with a restrained style that is dependent on angularity, as if he thought Cubism had something, but went too far.
"The Paul Mellon Bequest," through April 29, at the Yale Center for British Art, 1080 Chapel Street, New Haven. Information: (203) 432-2853.

GRAPHIC: Photos: From far left: James Pollard's "The Last of the Mail Coaches," Robert Burnard's "John Gubbins Newton and His Sister, Mary Newton," and Alfred Munnings's "Paul Mellon on Dublin." (The Yale Center for British Art) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); DOGS (89%); HORSES (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); FAMILY (75%); SPORT HUNTING (73%); LITERATURE (72%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (72%) ART; REVIEWS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; RARE BOOKS 

ORGANIZATION: YALE CENTER FOR BRITISH ART 

PERSON: MELLON, PAUL; ZIMMER, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%); ENGLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



609 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: Seeking a Way Out of Crowded Prisons 

BYLINE:  By MELINDA TUHUS 

 BODY:
PRISON overcrowding in Connecticut is a story about numbers. It's about big numbers, like the more than $25,000 per year it costs taxpayers to house each of almost 18,000 inmates. It's about little numbers, too, like the three sons of a New Haven mother, Barbara Fair, who are part of the disproportionately high percentage of black men behind bars.
 Ten years ago, the state took steps to curb the growth of its prison population by setting up a variety of alternative programs for nonviolent offenders, particularly those whose crimes involved drug use. Now these programs, like the prisons, are filled to capacity and beyond. Both the Legislature and Gov. John G. Rowland are determined to wrestle with the problem this year. 
 In his budget address in January, the governor said that buying or selling drugs is a crime but addiction is a disease. "The governor has made prison overcrowding one of his key issues this legislative session," said Dean Pagani, the governor's spokesman. "He's not saying there should be no punishment, but we have to treat addicts, too." 
Measures being considered in Hartford include bills that would allow judicial discretion in sentencing for drug crimes that now require mandatory minimum sentences, sending nonviolent drug offenders to treatment centers instead of prison, identifying and diverting mentally ill prisoners into treatment, and diverting those convicted of drunken driving into community programs.
While Connecticut's total population remained stable, its prison population tripled from 1985 to 2000, from 5,375 to 17,305. In the same period, the state Department of Correction spent $1 billion to add more than 10,000 prison beds but couldn't keep up with the flow of prisoners.
By the department's own calculations, two-thirds of those behind bars today are classified as nonviolent, 80 percent have substance abuse problems and 12 percent are mentally ill, often with dual diagnoses of drug and alcohol problems.
In an earlier attempt to deal with the prison problems, the General Assembly passed legislation in 1990 requiring those convicted of serious crimes to serve more of their sentences. At the same time it created the Office of Alternative Sanctions, which has diverted more than 40,000 mostly first-time, nonviolent offenders from prison cells to a range of programs, including day incarceration centers, community service, residential programs for alcohol and drug treatment, and electronic monitoring. The cost per slot for the three-quarters that are day programs is $7,000 annually with an average of four clients per slot per year.
Now the alternative programs have reached their capacity of 5,000 adults. Yet on any given day 250 inmates who are eligible for such programs are sitting in prison, said Bill Carbone, executive director of Court Support Services of the Judicial Branch, which oversees the Office of Alternative Sanctions. He said two-thirds of those in the programs successfully complete them. A three-year study of 16- to-21-year-old drug offenders in Connecticut completed in 1997 showed that those in alternative programs had rearrest rates only one-third that of a control group that went to prison. The study also indicated that 65 percent of those imprisoned were re-arrested within three years.
Representative Robert Farr, a Republican from West Hartford who is a self-described law-and-order conservative, is a supporter of setting up nonprison alternatives.
"I'd like to begin using the criminal justice system as a screening process to get people the help they need," said Mr. Farr, a 20-year veteran of the House, adding, "The easiest way to reduce the prison population would be to increase the high school graduation rate." Correction Department figures show that for the three-quarters of inmates who come from the state's 16 largest towns, 69 percent don't have high school diplomas. 
The Rowland administration's goal is to create a "stern but compassionate" environment for offenders, said Marc Ryan, secretary of the Office of Policy Management. 
He said $20 million in state bond financing is earmarked for construction of a 500-bed secure, residential community justice center, in addition to $5 million for operation. The center, a collaboration of the Department of Correction and the Divisions of Probation and Parole, would provide short-term substance abuse and mental health treatment to nonviolent offenders, both men and women. It would also be an alternative to prison for those who have violated probation or parole on technicalities.
Representative Michael Lawlor, a Democrat from East Haven and co-chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said consensus was growing toward a decision to put more resources into community programs, although he pointed out that new high security prisons would still be built to replace the thousands of dormitory-style beds that were built in haste in the late 1980's.
He predicted that the outcome of the deliberation on all the bills would be three or four specific groups of policy changes and budget changes, saying, "We are down to the details right now."
That's where the devil is, said Ed Mattison, executive director of
the South Central Behavioral Health Network. The network is a nonprofit agency serving greater New Haven that provides services for people with substance abuse and mental health problems, and is one of the agencies contracted to provide services to inmates through the state Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
Mr. Mattison is wary of promises for more money to finance treatment programs. He said last year more than $7 million was appropriated to put mental health professionals in all the superior courts around the state to identify individuals who should be diverted from prison into mental health treatment, to pay for 60 new probation officers and 100 new drug treatment beds, but none of these programs had gone into effect by the time overall state spending reached a mandated budget cap. 
"I think the Legislature will pass an elaborate bill, and then they will run into fiscal hot water" and cut programs again, Mr. Mattison said.
Mr. Lawlor agreed the cap is "definitely a problem," but said the changes make economic sense, since alternative programs are so much cheaper than prisons.
Another goal is to bring back the 500 Connecticut inmates who were sent to Virginia two years ago because of overcrowding in state prisons at a minimum cost of $12 million per year that was not originally in the budget, but Mr. Lawlor said the contract requires payment to Virginia through October 2002.
Other supporters of reform include family members of prisoners, drug reform organizations, advocates for the mentally ill, community justice groups, state agencies like the Permanent Commission on the Status of Women, which is concerned that women make up the fastest-growing segment of the prison population, and the Connecticut Correction Employees Union.
Ms. Fair, a school social worker, is a member of People Against Injustice, a New Haven-based group founded in 1996 to be an advocate for the rights of prisoners and their families. Three of her seven sons are incarcerated. One, she said, was pressured to plea bargain to drug possession and attempted assault charges, although she said there was no evidence against him on the assault charge. He faced up to 20 years had he gone to trial, but he got 10 years on the drug charge and 4 on the assault charge. Another is in prison for assault. The third is being held in pretrial detention on $225,000 bail for possession of marijuana with intent to sell. "In the suburbs they don't have bonds like that for stupid stuff like this," Ms. Fair said.
Another of her concerns is that inmates have access to programs that will teach them "life skills to help them stay straight." 
"People selling drugs want some hope that they can do something besides sell drugs," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, Daniel Goodwin, 51, repairing a chair for Project Green as part of a work-release program after serving two years on drug charges. Left, Walter Day, 32, who served three years on drug charges, plans to seek a job as a chef after the work program. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (93%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); SENTENCING (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (88%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (79%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (79%); ELECTRONIC MONITOR SENTENCING (79%); BUDGETS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (77%); MEN (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (75%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (69%); EXECUTIVES (60%) PRISONS AND PRISONERS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; DRUNKEN AND RECKLESS DRIVING 

PERSON: ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV); TUHUS, MELINDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



610 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey; 
Despite Uncertainties, Output Of Rentals Holds Firm

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
DESPITE the cooling American economy and stock market swings, the production of rental housing in New Jersey has not slowed, as developers continue to meet a demand they say still outpaces the supply.
 Evidence of that is a crop of rental projects just completed or under way in the state. They include a 336-unit rental tower on Jersey City's Hudson River waterfront and three garden-style apartment complexes, with 235, 270 and 288 units, respectively, in Toms River, Florham Park and Marlton in South Jersey. 
 Of all the segments of the real estate market, rentals have been the least affected by the economic climate and the outlook for the rest of the year is "generally healthy," said Sanford S. Herrick, vice president of the SWH Funding Corporation of Hackensack. "There hasn't yet been any wholesale layoffs, and at 4.2 percent New Jersey's unemployment rate is still low," Mr. Herrick said. "People need to live somewhere." 
Mark Obrinsky, chief economist at the National Multihousing Council, a trade association in Washington, added, "As times get tougher, some people on the verge of buying will postpone their home purchase and continue to rent, which is a reasonable cushion for rentals if a downturn occurs."
But rentals are not totally insulated from economic forces. The pace of leasing has eased from its frenzied rate of a year ago and while rents have not fallen, they are not being raised as often or as much as in the recent past. 
The number of permits issued for buildings in New Jersey of five or more units, including rentals, rose from 3,306 in 1997 to 5,089 in 1999 and to 6,617 last year. But that is still lower than the 11,604 permits issued in 1987, according to the state's Department of Labor.
The supply-demand imbalance, caused mainly by zoning constraints, has helped keep most apartment developments full. Nathan Slovin, executive director of the New Jersey Apartment Association, a trade group in East Brunswick, said that the rental vacancy rate varied across the state and that "the market is still tight and as good as it was last year."
The vacancy rate is 1 to 3 percent in northern New Jersey, 3 to 7 percent in the center of the state and 7 to 9 percent in South Jersey, Mr. Slovin said. "If I had to call anything soft, it would be South Jersey, even though in terms of absorption it has improved more than the others," he said.
Mr. Herrick voiced concerns about the Hudson River waterfront market, where many of the rentals have been built. The area's ties to the financial industry, which has helped fuel the riverside office market, could make it vulnerable, he said. 
Still, rentals continue to sprout there and elsewhere. Beyond the limited supply, the reasons include the availability of financing. Mr. Herrick said that in the last six months while lenders had increased the amount of equity required of hotel and office developers to 30 to 50 percent from 20 to 30 percent, the 20 to 25 percent required of rental builders had remained unchanged.
DEMOGRAPHICS are also on the side of rentals, but more on a long-term basis than on a short-term basis, Mr. Obrinsky said. In the state, as in the nation, the number of people aged 20 to 30, traditionally a key market for rentals, is growing -- as are empty-nesters, people generally 55 and older, for whom rentals could be a choice, he said.
Those factors, developers said, are why they are proceeding. Along Jersey City's waterfront, the Lefrak Organization of Rego Park, Queens, recently broke ground on the Pacific, the fifth and final rental building in the Towers of America complex at the Newport mixed-use development. The $65 million, 30-story building, to open in the summer of 2002, will have 336 one- and two-bedroom units.
"We're not rethinking our strategy," said Richard LeFrak, the company's president, when asked how he was responding to the uncertain economy. He said the 1,640 units in the four other towers, built from 1997, were occupied, as are 1,947 other mostly rental units at Newport.
Also driving his company, Mr. LeFrak said, is internal demand. In the next year, 7,000 workers will move to office towers under way at Newport, "and some will want to walk to work," he said. Though part of Jersey City's office market is driven by Manhattan's financial industry, "this building will fill up even if there is a 5 percent falloff in demand," he said.
Rents in Jersey City are also still only half those in Manhattan and "in Jersey City our position continues to be to provide the most value," Mr. LeFrak added. The average size of the units at the Pacific will be 756 to 1,074 square feet and rents will range from $1,525 to $2,915 a month. 
AvalonBay Communities, a real estate investment trust that specializes in rentals, intends to maintain its production of 500 to 600 units a year in New Jersey, said Gary Steinfield, a vice president at the company, based in Alexandria, Va., with offices in Woodbridge. AvalonBay's developments include a 312-unit project planned on Quakerbridge Road and Lawrence Station Road in Lawrence Township.
Mr. Steinfield said that while his company was concerned about continued building in some Hudson River waterfront towns, "we are fairly positive of the outlook for high-end rentals in north and central New Jersey." The vacancy rate for the company's statewide portfolio of 3,500 rentals is less than 2 percent. Mr. Steinfield said the pace of leasing had also been strong at his company's latest project: 270 town house-style units in a villagelike setting along the Columbia Turnpike in Florham Park in Morris County. Ninety-two percent of the one- to three-bedroom apartments, with 700 to 1,270 square feet, have been rented since leasing began last March at the $41 million complex. Monthly rents are $1,700 to $2,600.
MR. STEINFIELD said he no longer expected huge rent increases. "The 8 percent rental increases of the past two years were unprecedented and could not be sustained," he said.
Murray Kushner, chairman of Schenkman/Kushner Affiliates of Bridgewater, which owns or manages 3,500 rentals in New Jersey, said he had noticed a slowing in the pace of leasing. "But it is not enough to make us nervous," he said. "The demand is there, though it is not as vibrant as last year, and we are still firm believers in the market." 
With a 1 percent vacancy rate in its statewide portfolio the company plans to build five projects totaling 1,100 units in the next 18 months. 
In Toms River in Ocean County, it is now building the Villages at Bey Lea, with 235 units, 48 of which are reserved for people 55 and older who have low and moderate incomes. The $20 million project is on 30 acres along Old Freehold Road and Route 57. Since leasing began in January at the Villages at Bey Lea, 75 market-rate one- and two-bedroom apartments, averaging 1,050 and 1,150 square feet, have been leased. Rents are $1,075 and $1,175 a month.
Another company not pulling back is the Kushner Companies of Florham Park, which owns or manages 17,500 rentals in the state, only 1 percent of which are vacant. Its president, Charles Kushner, and Murray Kushner are brothers, but each runs his own company.
"Financing is plentiful and New Jersey's economy is healthy," said Richard Stadtmauer, managing director at the Kushner Companies. "And in uncertain economic times, people are more apt to rent." 
Going forward, Mr. Stadtmauer said, he is "cautious about raising rents," but his company will continue its production pace of 500 to 1,000 units a year. Indeed, the company, which has expanded into South Jersey, plans to build 10 projects with a total of 1,300 units in the next 18 months.
Mr. Stadtmauer said while he agreed that South Jersey is "the weaker part of the state's rental market, there are pockets of strength." Among them, he said, is Marlton in Burlington County, where his company is completing a 288-unit garden development called Woodview at Marlton. The $40 million project is on 41 acres along Pavonia Circle, not far from Routes 70 and 130 and 20 minutes from Philadelphia.
All the one- and two-bedroom units, with 920 to 1,200 square feet, were preleased in the last year at monthly rents of $925 to $1,150. Mr. Stadtmauer said. He noted that the project was competing with another one across the street. "That both are full shows the demand for rentals is still deep enough," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Left, the Pacific tower, planned at the Newport complex in Jersey City; above, the leasing office at the Villages at Bey Lea. (The 7th Art) Map of New Jersey

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ZONING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); WHOLESALERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); LAYOFFS (68%) HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



611 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK 

BYLINE:  Compiled by Warren Strugatch; E-mail: libiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Computer Associates Expects to Top Forecasts
 Computer Associates International Inc. (NYSE: CA) of Islandia said on Wednesday that preliminary financial results for the fourth quarter exceeded analysts' expectations for both total revenue and earnings per share. 
 Total revenues for the quarter were estimated at $1.44 billion, up from $1.39 billion in the fourth quarter a year ago. Analysts' estimates had been $1.43 billion. Fourth quarter operating earnings are expected to be 47 cents a share, compared with 34 cents a share a year ago. Analysts' estimates had been 43 cents a share.
For the fiscal year ended March 31, the company said it anticipates total revenue of about $5.57 billion, up from $5.26 billion in fiscal 2000. Earnings per share are anticipated at $1.61, compared with $1.31 in the prior year.
Sanjay Kumar, Computer Associates' president and chief executive, said that the results validated the company's new emphasis on e-business and the implementation of what it calls a customer-centric business strategy.
"We are extremely pleased with our revenue and operating performance in the fourth quarter," he said, "despite difficult economic conditions."

Around the Island
Influential board members of both the Long Island Software and Technology Network and the Long Island Forum for Technology have agreed to merge and form a new organization called TechNet. Listnet's chairman, Peter Goldsmith, will serve as president, and the new group will have a membership of 1,300 companies and an annual budget of $5 million. Listnet and LIFT will continue their programs; the merger will require the approval of both boards. . . . Alfred J. Roach, the chairman and chief executive of American Biogenetic Sciences Inc. (Nasdaq: MABA) in Copiague, has chided federal lawmakers for what he called their Dark Ages approach to intellectual-property legislation. In his keynote address to a conference on allergies and immunology in Manhattan last Sunday, Mr. Roach complained that patent laws stifle innovation by discouraging the sharing of ideas. His solution: licensing inventions at a fair price. . . . The Twinlab Corporation (Nasdaq: TWLB) of Hauppauge has sold two operating divisions, Changes International Inc. and PR Nutrition Inc., to a British company, the Goldshield Group P.L.C., for $5 million in cash. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); MERGERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); APPROVALS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); PATENTS (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (67%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (67%); LEGISLATION (67%); IMMUNOLOGY (62%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); PATENT LAW (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CA INC (95%); AMERICAN BIOGENETIC SCIENCES INC (65%); TWINLAB CORP (63%); GOLDSHIELD GROUP PLC (63%); PR NUTRITION INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: COMPUTER ASSOCIATES INTERNATIONAL INC 

TICKER: CA (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (95%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (65%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (63%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (63%); NAICS311423 DRIED & DEHYDRATED FOOD MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (63%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: STRUGATCH, WARREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



612 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3093 words

HEADLINE: Putnam's Mysterious Chambers of Stone 

BYLINE:  By COREY KILGANNON 

DATELINE: KENT CLIFFS 

 BODY:
MARTIN BRECH stepped cleanly through the woods here, stopped and pointed to an odd stone cavern built into the hillside like something out of a J. R. R. Tolkien novel.
 Its roof, a series of huge rock slabs, rested on arched walls made of large stones that fit together so precisely they did not need mortar. 
 It was the early morning of March 20, the spring equinox, and the sun was just creeping over the horizon. Its rays darted through the doorway and down the length of the long narrow chamber onto the back wall. The sunlight illuminated the interior as it does only once a year. 
Archaeoastronomy, the alignment of structures with the heavens, is usually associated with such ancient wonders as Machu Picchu in Peru or Newgrange chamber in Ireland.
In fact, this chamber tucked away in the woods of Putnam County resembles the neolithic stone monuments of the ancient Celts. So do the roughly 100 similar stone chambers in Putnam.
Mr. Brech, the Hudson Valley coordinator for the New England Antiquities Research Association, is convinced that stone structures like this one were built by ancient European explorers, possibly Celts, who sailed to the New World centuries before Columbus.
Critics dismiss these theories as based more on imagination than evidence, and locals have long considered these structures the handiwork of 18th-century farmers who they say built them to store meat, dairy products and vegetables on farms that have since gone back to forest.
But Mr. Brech calls it preposterous that some farmer would -- or could -- haul multi-ton slabs of granite just to make a shed. "You don't need to go to these lengths for a storage space," he said. "You'd only do something like this for religious purposes."
For years the chambers, many of which are aligned with equinox and solstice sunrises, have inspired debate among amateur historians. But now they have come center stage amid renewed controversy over their history and an effort to preserve them that would include millions of dollars in county funds.
Similar stone structures exist in Connecticut, Vermont and New Hampshire, where the strange rock formations on Mystery Hill are a tourist attraction called America's Stonehenge because of the claim that ancient Celts built them during a long visit some 2,000 years ago.
But curiously, the highest concentration of them lies in Putnam County. They have long mystified local history buffs and archaeologists, and spawned a proliferation of theories about explorers (ancient Celts or Irish monks, Libyan sailors, Iberian adventurers or Phoenician traders) being lured by Putnam's rich iron reserves, and hypothetical uses of the chambers: Viking dwellings, Celtic cathedrals, Indian burial tombs, runaway slave hideouts and witches' hovels.
In recent years, enthusiasts have mapped most of the chambers as part of a serious preservation campaign. Many have been destroyed by developers and property owners who do not regard them as historic, Mr. Brech said.
The chambers have figured heavily in several books published since the mid-1970's supporting the theory of pre-Columbus settlement, including "Bronze Age America" (Little, Brown, 1982) and "America B.C.: Ancient Settlers in the New World," (Simon & Schuster, 1976) both by Barry Fell, a Harvard biology professor who identified inscriptions on similar structures in New England as Ogam, an ancient Irish language.
In another book, "The Search for Lost America," (Penguin Books, 1979) Salvatore Michael Trento writes that the Putnam chambers "appear to be the congregated structures of a social community; they are strangely different from any that have been built since colonial times."
And a book published last year, "Celtic Mysteries in New England" (Llewellyn Worldwide) by Philip Imbrogno and Marianne Horrigan was devoted mostly to the Putnam chambers, calling them the work of ancient explorers. Since its publication, students writing book reports all across the country have been writing to libraries and historical groups in Putnam requesting more information.
But there is little material available locally. Most Putnam residents know the huts simply as root cellars built to store farmers' perishables. Few have heard the elaborate theories about Druid temples. And many locals are puzzled by the surge of interest in these structures that often serve as yard sheds or smelly trash dumps.
Most mainstream historians and archaeologists dismiss the revisionist theories for lack of evidence. The chambers exist almost exclusively in Putnam, they say, because this Hudson Highlands area is rich with large slabs and boulders. As far as the chambers facing east, they say, the farmers needed the morning light to use the cellars.
"I don't want to rain on anybody's parade, but we know through interviews that there was a group of guys who went around building these things for the early farmers," said Jim Baker, a local environmentalist and planning chairman for the town of Kent. "They made ramps of earth and used oxen to pull the stones up."
Mr. Baker pointed to a written interview with a Putnam Valley farmer, Lucas Barger, whose forebears helped settle the area. Mr. Barger recalled relatives' descriptions of how the chambers were built. (Mr. Brech calls Mr. Barger's account a "yarn" that does not describe the chambers accurately.)
Dr. Kenneth L. Feder, an anthropology professor at Central Connecticut State University, said, "Just because they are very interesting and cool and make us go 'Wow' has no bearing on who made them."
"The fact that it's possible don't make it so," said Dr. Feder, who has researched similar structures in Connecticut and written several books including "Frauds, Myths, and Mysteries: Science and Pseudoscience in Archaeology" (Mayfield Publishing Company, 1998).
"If people from England, Ireland or Scotland were in Putnam 2,000 years ago long enough to build these structures, they'd have left some sort of evidence," he said. "But there's just no physical evidence in the form of artifacts."
Putnam is dotted with these stone structures, whether tucked deep in the woods, on the main roads or presiding over grassy backyards.
"To most people, they're just part of the landscape," said Marilyn Schlansky, director of the Carmel library. "For a lot of the kids, they're a place out in the woods to smoke and drink."
One chamber stands several feet from the whizzing traffic on Route 6 in Mahopac, diagonally across from the Kmart and the Grand Union. Inside are leaves and trash and a faint smell of urine. On the walls there are indeciperable inscriptions, not in ancient Ogam, but in black spray paint.
Henry Grosskamp, 69, of Dutchess, owns the property and grew up there. His family once used the chamber to store the apples and vegetables they grew. But now it's useless, he said.
"I could see saving these things if they meant anything, but they're just root cellars," he said. "I'm waiting for the day the town widens the road and knocks it down."
And that may not take long; there is brisk development in Putnam, one of the state's fastest growing counties.
Mr. Brech has capitalized on the pace of development and on public interest in the chambers to gain support and publicity for a proposal he hopes to see on the November ballot. The measure, now being considered by the Putnam County legislature's environmental committee, would ask for voter approval to use tax dollars to buy historic land and structures facing demolition by developers. The money would be provided as matching funds to towns and villages wishing to make the purchases.
The structures have been the topic of discussions at historical societies, exhibits at libraries and even formal debates in front of the chambers. The meetings draw a diverse audience, including hikers, historians, environmentalists, professors, politicians and self-proclaimed witches.
"They bring out interesting people," said Sallie Sypher, a former Putnam County historian. "We had a man up from New York City to one of our symposiums, with high boots and britches and long frock coat and ponytail. He said he was a healer and came because of the chambers' healing properties."
In the early 1990's, Mr. Brech said, a student on a class trip to a Putnam Valley chamber found an artifact, an obsidian knife, that scientists say must have originally come from Greenland.
Mr. Brech said it was unlikely that farmers built the chambers because Putnam has more than anywhere else but had fewer farms than neighboring areas. He notes that no farmers' artifacts have been found around the chambers. And he said there are no written records of building them.
But, Mrs. Sypher countered, "They didn't write about building their outhouses either.
"Early explorers wouldn't have had oxen, and human labor alone couldn't have made these," she said. "Yes, they're similar to early England, but how many different ways can you do post and lintel building?"
Still, she added: "Whatever they are, they're worth preserving. There are so many in this area, and they're really part of the charm here."
Mr. Brech says that more and more locals are picking up on his theory.
Sam Oliverio Jr., a Putnam County legislator and chairman of the legislature's environmental committee, is a believer. He is sponsoring Mr. Brech's proposal.
"Farmers wrote in diaries about building stone walls and farmhouse foundations, barns, orchards, but nothing about building these stone structures," said Mr. Oliverio, who represents the town of Putnam Valley. "It's not far-fetched to think that instead of 1492, maybe in 500 A.D., explorers came ashore and built them."
Mr. Oliverio said he has tried to get the county to protect the structures but "it's always knocked down with 'What do you want to save a root cellar for?'
"Sure, I'm scoffed at," he said, "but there's more to it than just root cellars. A real study has never been done because too many people dismiss it. But somebody should really commission one."
In years past, preservationists have rallied around the structures when they were threatened. In the late 1980's, the Ginsburg Development Corporation planned to build 430 units of housing in Kent Hills, the site of several chambers. Preservationists rejoiced when the project stalled because of the recession. New York City has since bought the land to use as watershed.
Then, in the mid-1990's, the Foley Development Corporation of White Plains planned 418 homes in the Lake Point section of Carmel. The stone chambers were central to homeowners' opposition to the project, which collapsed. The land was also bought by New York City.
Mr. Brech said that they are often demolished out of pure ignorance of their history.
Chip Marks, who runs tours of archaeological sites in the Hudson Valley, lamented that often in the county, "I look and there's another chamber bulldozed to make way for a new house."
Nonetheless, some see commercial value in the chambers.
Roseanne Verlen, a real estate agent with Houlihan-Lawrence who lives in Putnam Valley, has sold several houses with chambers on the property. She usually mentions the chamber when advertising the property because it tends to increase the sale price.
"People want that," she said. "They add to the authenticity of historic homes. When you explain that they're colonial root cellars, they're intrigued. Of course, they wind up keeping wheelbarrows and lawnmowers in them."
Celtic theorists point to other apparent megalithic structures in the Hudson Valley to support their beliefs. For example, the red-granite Balanced Rock, resting on five smaller conical rocks on Route 116 in North Salem, weighs some 80 tons. A sign at the site erected by local historians describes it as having been deposited by a glacier in the Ice Age. But in recent years, an alternate description has been added to the sign: that it could be a dolmen, or ceremonial stone, erected by Celts who visited the area more than 2,000 years ago.
Elsewhere, too, there seems to be growing acceptance of the possibility that the chambers are ancient.
"We always called them root cellars, but now we're trying to call them stone chambers so we're not judgmental," Mrs. Sypher said. When she takes students on field trips to the chambers, she said: "I tell them different points of view about them and they can believe what they want. Of course, they don't know what Druids are."
Mr. Brech, who teaches ancient and medieval philosophy at Westchester Community College, lectures widely about the chambers and has given tours of them. He is 74 and lives in a geodesic dome house built around a tree on a dead end in Mahopac. It is cluttered with philosophy books, infrared heaters and health food products.
He contends that the structures served as spiritual centers for the ancients who once lived in Putnam. Their religious leaders recharged their spiritual energy inside by meditating through the solstice and equinox illumination. 
Several years ago, Mr. Brech himself spent the night in a Kent chamber in December and had a "profound mystical experience" at sunrise, he said.
That, and climbing Mount Whitney in California, converted him from an atheist to a mystic. Now he's a Unitarian minister with a master's degree from Columbia University and degrees in forestry, theology and library science. He is also a political gadfly and ran for county executive as the Green Party candidate in the 1990's, promising to preserve the stone chambers.
He attends meetings of the legislature and sends letters to legislators, especially Robert J. Pozzi, of Mahopac, who is chairman of the Economic Development Committee.
"He, uh, continues to educate us on these chambers," Mr. Pozzi said, declining to speculate on the pedigree of the chambers.
U.F.O. enthusiasts, too, have taken an interest in the chambers.
In the 1990's, preservationists invited a U.F.O. expert, Dr. Bruce Cornet, then a staff geologist at the Lamont Doherty Observatory, to bring a proton procession magnetometer to measure slight variations in the earth's magnetic field. Dr. Cornet visited four chambers and said he recorded "the strangest readings I ever got in this area."
"It was strong enough to reverse a compass," he said. "Each stone chamber had a significant magnetic pull right in front of the door. This magnetic anomaly is a true clue that they are much older than the early colonists." He speculated that builders put metallic material below the chamber's doorstep plate either to aid in finding the chambers with early compasses or to help early religious leaders perform magnetic tricks during ritual ceremonies to convince people of their special powers."
Dr. Cornet also said that the chambers could be "sensing platforms to search for extraterrestrial visitation."
Many similar fringe theories have cropped up. The book "Celtic Mysteries," for example, alternates between conventional scientific methods and an "X-Files" approach. It calls the chambers centers of "high strangeness" and sites of paranormal activity and ghost sightings, and it quotes a local psychic who argues that the chambers are "portals to the other side used for traveling out of body."
The chambers hold a particular fascination for many believers in Wicca, or the practice of witchcraft. They hold ceremonies at the chambers because of their astronomical alignment and the belief that they may have been used by ancient Celts, said Lady Lorraine, who owns Dancing Moon, a New Age shop in Carmel.
"Equinoxes, solstices," she said, her black cat, Nimew, rubbing against her leg. "Full moons are popular too."
Robert E. Funk, chief archaeologist for the New York State Museum from 1971 to 1993, said the chambers have "never been seriously investigated because nobody has ever produced any evidence of anything but colonial origin."
"There are no Celtic ruins in the New World and certainly not in Putnam County," he said. "It's a romantic idea and people want to believe this almost like a religion. These structures may be historical as colonial constructs, and not enough attention has been given to that, but Putnam has always been kind of neglected that way."
Eleanor Fitchen, 88, founder of the Landmarks Preservation Society of South East, said at least some of the chambers were built by colonial farmers because there are some written accounts.
"I don't deny the possibility of some them having been from Norse times," she said. "We know they were here before the European settlers. But to arbitrarily say these are all temples, I don't buy it. 
"But it's been believed by a lot of people for a long time. So if it makes them feel better to believe that, fine. They are amazing historic structures no matter who built them, and the more reason to save them, the better."

One Theory: Indians Built Them
"This is a true American mystery right under New Yorkers' noses," said Salvatore Michael Trento, who conducted perhaps the most extensive research of the region's stone chambers. In the mid-1970's he created the Middletown Archaeological Research Center and with a large staff excavated 12 chambers throughout the Northeast. In the end, there were still few answers.
"I was sure we would know after a couple years. That's how it usually goes with a dig, but these are the most puzzling thing I've come across in the eastern United States," said Mr. Trento, who studied at Oxford, worked for the National Geographic Society and excavated ancient megaliths all over the world.
He theorizes that the chambers were built by American Indians, all conforming to a similar style.
"They're not made by Celts or aliens," he said. "It's actually more interesting than that. You can trace every bit of non-Indian architecture in this country to models in Europe, everything from stone walls to barns. But there is nothing like these chambers in Europe. They are a homegrown, vernacular piece of native architecture. And after all these years, no one has any idea what they are.
"I find it astonishing that we have these incredible pieces of architecture and nobody is looking at them."
He said that fantastic theories keep away serious archaeologists.
"It's the kiss of death academically," he said. "Tenured N.Y.U. and Harvard professors are not going to study places that have all these loopy people offering fringe archaeological theories on them."
He added: "It is so extraordinarily unusual that there are no artifacts there. I've looked at sites around the world, and there's always something left behind, but these have been literally swept clean.
"They're part of our history, and if you're going to start bulldozing them to build housing developments, you're stupid."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Martin Brech outside a stone chamber built into a hillside in Kent Cliffs, where the sun illuminates the interior only on the spring equinox. Balanced Rock, below, rests on five smaller rocks on Route 116 in North Salem.(Photographs by Joseph Kugielsky for The New York Times)(pg. 1); "Celtic Mysteries in New England," above, a book by Philip Imbrogno and Marianne Horrigan, devoted mostly to the stone chambers of Putnam County; Martin Brech, left, looking into a chamber in Kent Cliffs; A drawing of a turtle found on Hawk Rock, below left, at the site of a stone chamber; and a chamber in Putnam Valley, below, with a standing stone in front. (Photographs by Joseph Kugielsky for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); HISTORY (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (87%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (77%); ARCHAEOLOGY (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); COUNTIES (73%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (69%); REAL ESTATE (67%); RELIGION (62%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (50%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (50%) ARCHAEOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY; AGRICULTURE; FARMERS 

PERSON: KILGANNON, COREY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (87%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (87%); IRELAND (79%); PERU (56%) PUTNAM COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



613 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Click and Win: Inventors Cash In on Their Ideas

BYLINE:  By DEBORAH KONG

 BODY:
MICHAEL SMITHSON'S epiphany came about 10 minutes into his career as an inventor. While reading about a Coca-Cola contest to dream up an entertaining and healthy drink for children, he recalled how his 9-year-old grandson had trouble keeping track of his tackle, rods, snacks and sunscreen on a fishing trip last summer. Because children are prone to losing things, Mr. Smithson suggested a frozen drink in a container that children can wear on their wrists, as they would a bracelet, and sip as it thaws. He found out a few weeks ago that he had won the $5,000 prize.
 Albert Muller struck pay dirt, too, but it took 28 years. Mr. Muller, a retired Boeing engineer, spent that time perfecting a better nozzle for heavy-duty vacuum cleaners, but he dreaded the process of selling his invention to appliance makers. Then he heard that Sears, Roebuck was offering $5,000 for the best idea for "the next hot tool," and he pitched the nozzle. Sears bought it. 
 Both men connected with the companies through Ideas.com, a Mountain View, Calif., company whose Web site helps people who fancy themselves as the next Thomas Edison to send their ideas directly to corporate decision makers. Mr. Smithson and Mr. Muller are among the first winners of innovation contests that Ideas.com began when it went online in November. 
Ideas.com, one of several new sites that buy, sell or solicit intellectual property, may be a win-win solution for companies and inventors. "Companies are scrambling all the time to come up with new ideas" because of faster product cycles, said Sanjay Goel, the site's founder and chief executive. The Internet is a natural place to look, because many people who use it are technologically knowledgeable and naturally curious. And the sites provide an easy way to gauge consumer trends.
"It used to be we would come up with an idea, and consumers would help us evaluate it, refine it" in focus groups, said Tom LaForge, director of innovations at Coca-Cola. "Now we're getting to consumers one step earlier, and they're coming up with the ideas."
With the economy slowing, the time is certainly ripe. "In many ways, companies are going to be trying to sell themselves out of this downturn," said John Fontanella, an analyst at AMR Research in Boston. 
Mr. Goel started Ideas.com a year ago after struggling to find a home for his own idea for a new car gadget. He envisioned a site where large corporations could collect ideas from people around the world, saving individuals the headache and expense of patenting and developing ideas on their own and sparing companies the bother and potential legal liability of sifting through a flood of unsolicited ideas.
There is a tradeoff. On the site, would-be inventors must accept an agreement intended to protect companies from lawsuits accusing them of stealing inventions. Steven L. Smith, a Sacramento patent lawyer, cautioned that inventors might be relinquishing the rights to their ideas simply by submitting them, and said he advises inventors to require companies to sign nondisclosure and noncompetition agreements.
MR. GOEL quit his job as an investment banker at Citibank in late 1999 after receiving a $1.2 million investment from Venky Harinarayan, a former classmate at the University of California at Los Angeles, and Anand Rajaraman and Rakesh Mathur. The three men were among the founders of the Junglee Corporation, which made software to help consumers find the best prices for products on the Internet; Junglee was sold to Amazon.com in 1998 for about $250 million.
Mr. Goel then persuaded a former New York University classmate and skydiving pal, Sharat Singh, to quit his job as a lead program manager at Microsoft and to become president and chief technology officer of Ideas.com. They secured the backing of Coca-Cola, Sears, Roebuck, S. C. Johnson & Son and International Paper, which agreed to pay an undisclosed membership fee. Ideas.com also receives a commission of about 30 percent from the idea contest awards, paid by the companies.
Coca-Cola and Sears said that they were impressed with the quality of ideas from the first contests.
A Coke competition seeking innovative ideas in packaging, for example, was won by Spencer Wolf, who proposed a drink container that illuminates itself when squeezed. Mr. Wolf, who studied mechanical engineering at Cornell and is now pursuing a master's degree in business administration at U.C.L.A., said his idea went back to when he asked his father what caused fireflies to glow without the benefit of electrical outlet or batteries. The invention uses piezoelectricity, a mechanical phenomenon that replicates that effect with crystals.
Coca-Cola said that it was evaluating Mr. Smithson's idea for the wrist-worn container and that Mr. Wolf's proposal for the self-illuminating container might be explored later. Other ideas, from doctors, college students, professors, children and parents, have confirmed some consumer trends that the company is exploring.
"A lot of consumers were asking for healthier drinks that had to do with soy," Mr. LaForge said. "I didn't realize how many people would be interested in that type of product." Other ideas, like packaging drinks with tablets that add vitamins or flavors, suggest "people are really looking for more customization," he said.
In judging the ideas for drinks, Coke was looking for a unique, healthy product with innovative packaging. Entries in a separate packaging contest had to be cost-effective, technically sound, easy to make and use, and meet safety, health and environmental standards. Judges included employees from Coke's legal, marketing, technical engineering and new product development departments. The company plans to post all 889 contest ideas on its internal Web site.
Mr. Smithson, 46, an insurance salesman from Leesburg, Fla., is among many people who have submitted ideas but have not previously considered themselves professional inventors. "In day-to-day life, you don't really get poked and prodded into having a lot of ideas," he said. "Something like this, it makes you think."
But Mr. Muller, who lives in Houston, has long taken innovation seriously. He belongs to the Houston Inventors Association, whose members share experiences and tips on developing ideas into products. 
He noted that raking leaves 28 years ago, on the patio of his former home in Southern California, spurred him to look for an easier solution. "I'm always looking at things to see how they work," he said.
Sears said it was reviewing patent documents and prototypes of Mr. Muller's invention to help decide if it wants to sell the product.
The Sears contest, which drew 135 entries, was also a way to channel some of the thousands of unsolicited ideas that the company receives each year. Invention proposals sometimes arrive on handwritten letters and home videos addressed to the chief executive's office, on scraps of paper handed to sales representatives or -- in the case of a pink lawn mower designed as part of a lawn-and-garden set for women -- carried into the company's headquarters in Hoffman Estates, Ill.
"In the midst of that disorderliness, we have the sense that there may be some terrific ideas out there," said Steve Kirn, vice president for innovation and organizational development at Sears. In October, Sears sought refrigerator improvement ideas through a competing site, www.brightidea.com. Companies pay the site $50,000 to be the host of such contests.
OTHER sites that solicit consumer ideas, like www.ideadollar.com and www.brainhead.com, are developing a few of them into products, offering inventors a stake if the idea turns into a new company or a share of royalties or sales. Ideadollar said one idea, for waterproof shower posters, has been turned into a product that will be in stores next month. Among ideas it received, said its chief executive, Mark Turrell, "we are probably sitting on the next Razor scooter."
Business-oriented sites, like www.yet2.com and www.pl-x.com, operated by the Patent & License Exchange, also function as marketplaces where companies buy and sell intellectual property. Honeywell International, for example, lists almost 100 technologies on yet2.com, hoping to attract new licensing revenue.
At Ideas.com, which has grown from 2 to 10 employees in the last year, the biggest challenge is to persuade more companies to conduct idea contests and to pay membership fees. The site is also trying to license software that will let companies collect ideas from their employees.
Mr. Goel asks companies to use his site to contract out some of their innovation, just as they might rely on outsiders for public relations or market research. They may find the next multibillion-dollar idea there, he said, reeling off a list of possibilities. "It could be the new Coke," he said. "It could be a new way of distributing foods. It could be a new form of energy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Smithson, left, with family members in Leesburg, Fla., won $5,000 from Coca-Cola in an Internet contest for drink ideas. (Gregg Matthews for The New York Times); Ideas.com in Mountain View, Calif., helps would-be inventors pitch ideas directly to companies. Sharat Singh, left, is president and Sanjay Goel, right, is chief executive. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (89%); SPORT FISHING (78%); PATENTS (78%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (73%); TRENDS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); FOCUS GROUPS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (58%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (56%); BOEING CO (56%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%); BOSTON, MA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



614 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2525 words

HEADLINE: Listing Lack Buoys Second Home Prices 

BYLINE:  By NADINE BROZAN 

 BODY:
IF the prosperity of the second home market is tethered to the gyrations of Wall Street, then it would be logical to assume that prices of houses from East Hampton to Kennebunkport, Bucks County to the Berkshires had been sinking in recent months in tandem with the Dow Jones and Nasdaq indexes.
 But though the cutthroat bidding wars of last year have subsided, prospective buyers who assume they will be able to snatch up prime beach or country properties at fire sale prices are being unrealistic, according to second-home specialists. 
 What they are likely to confront instead are price tags that have not risen since last year but have dipped little, if at all, as demand continues to outstrip supply up and down the East Coast. 
Thomas B. Anderson, an executive vice president of Sotheby's International Realty who oversees country home sales from Connecticut to Virginia, said that the market, which soared last year, was simply catching up with itself. Historically, the real estate market has lagged about a year behind the financial markets. 
"There were so many individuals who acquired an enormous capability to purchase homes over the last several years and there was an enormous level of activity in the country home market, which left us with little inventory," he said. "The few homes that did come on the market sold quickly. So now despite the financial market, there remains a pent-up demand. When I call my affiliate brokers with lists of purchasers looking for properties, they all tell me they have nothing to show." 
However, the force of pent-up demand varies from one area to another. In some places like the Hamptons, in many ways a bellwether for the resort world, prices reached such extravagant heights last year that current reverses don't signify softening as much as correction, brokers and other observers say. In others, prices have not decreased at all. 
What has changed, even in the face of continuing shortages, Mr. Anderson said, is the attitude of sellers entering the market. "They recognize that the bidding-war frenzy has quieted and that they must ask prices that are realistic," he said. 
In addition, where there might have been multiple bidders trying to outdo one another in the past, there are more likely to be one or two now. 
"This is part of the natural ebb and flow of business," Judi Desiderio, the vice president of Cook Pony Farm, an agency that has seven offices throughout the Hamptons and three on the North Fork of Long Island. "We have had 10 years of incredible growth, with the last two years a little out of control. Beginning with the stock market glitch in September, the number of inquiries, offers, acceptances and sales have slowed down in all price ranges, and that has continued for the first quarter of 2001." 
There are exceptions, she added. "Westhampton, Amagansett, Sag Harbor and the North Fork, where you don't see the $50 million houses that skew your figures, have taken off," she said. That the second home market is wedded to Wall Street seems beyond question. "When Wall Street has a banner year, we have a banner year, and when Wall Street pulls back, so do we," Ms. Desiderio said. "Most of our customer base has something to do with it, whether they are employed by the street or their retirement portfolio is invested in the street or they are simply economically sensitive."
Kathleen F. Schwartz, a lawyer who handles real estate transactions from Westhampton to Amagansett, said: "The market may be a little strange right now and definitely slower, but there are sellers. All the sales I have handled this year have gone at the asking price, and I haven't seen any deals fall through. People who work on Wall Street are putting their bonuses into the ground." 
ON Martha's Vineyard, where buying has been as feverish in the last few years as it has been in the Hamptons, Fred Roven, a broker who deals exclusively with buyers, said prices, which had escalated by 40 percent in 1999 and 2000, were now more flexible. 
"People were trying to cash in and prices were so inflated a year ago," he said. "There were houses in the $3 million to $5 million range that were overpriced because of the stock market. They are settling a bit now and are more negotiable." 
Still, he said, he is aware of more than 50 listings over $1 million, along with an increased supply of properties crossing all price ranges from $275,000 for inland Cape Cods to $15 million for a house on five acres of oceanfront land.
Farther south, on the New Jersey shore, Diane Turton, president of a company that bears her name, said recently that she had detected not the slightest tremors in the market nor any moderation in prices. In fact, her recent experience seems to contradict the trends elsewhere. 
"Last year, we did about $100 million in secondary housing, and this year we are right on target," said Ms. Turton, who has 11 offices in New Jersey and two in Palm Beach. "I tell people that even if they have all cash, they might not get the house they want. One house recently had 18 offers and inventory is so low that we joke that agents must sell their own houses." 
A few days later, Lynn Miller, who is in charge of production for Kasper A.S.L., a women's suit manufacturer, signed a contract on a 2,100-square-foot three-bedroom house that sits on a lagoon in Toms River on which five other buyers had placed bids. She will pay $210,000 for the house, which was listed at $174,000. 
"It needs a lot of work, but it is exactly what I wanted," said Ms. Miller, who has been scouting weekend houses for about a year and made several unsuccessful bids. "In some cases, a person's dreams really do come true."
On the southern coast of Maine, "10 years ago, they would shut down the traffic lights on Labor Day," said Steven Weigel, owner of DeWolfe Y-Gull & Associates in Wells, who has been in business in the Kittery-York-Ogunquit-Kennebunkport area for 18 years. "Now people keep coming right through Jan. 1 and this is a hot location, particularly since two lanes are being added to the highway." 
In fact, he continued: "Prices really jumped in the last two years. In some places they are up $100,000 over last year. Anything out there even half reasonably priced is under contract." 
Beach or shoreline houses are listed at $700,000 to $3 million, and those a block away from the beach have risen to $500,000. "Inland, you can still buy something for under $200,000 that is a 10 minute drive to the beach," Mr. Weigel said.
One of the more spectacular offerings in his area is a $900,000 two-bedroom house put up on speculation that has a pool, a sauna and a home theater. "It is on a half an acre in the York area and barely has an ocean view," Mr. Weigel said. 
But for those who can't -- or won't -- spend such sums, he emphasized, "We are also selling condos that are former rental cottages or studios between $40,000 and $90,000." 
John Harney, an agent with Elyse Harney Real Estate, which is owned by his mother and which has three offices in the northwest corner of Connecticut and also does business in nearby New York and the Berkshires, said he had been surprised by the unbroken pace of sales in recent months. 
"We expected the winter to be slow, but it was not," he said as he recently toured colonial and contemporary houses in the historic villages of Sharon and Salisbury, Conn. "Quite frankly, there are more buyers than agents to serve them, and everyone is scrambling."
The average price in the historic area, where 300-year-old houses are not uncommon, runs between $400,000 and $500,000. But with privacy and sweeping vistas of land prized, there are also numerous estates and $1 million buys much more land there than it does in beach communities. 
"The biggest properties we sold this past year flipped into the $3 million category," Ms. Harney said. "We had a listing for a 100-acre property for some time that was $3.5 million. People are very resistant to crossing into the $4 million range." 
Dennis Kaylor and Tracey Young seemed comfortably confident that they would get their asking price, $2.4 million, for the 10,000-square-foot, 22-room 1772 Colonial house on 6.9 acres in what is known as Millionaire's Row in Sharon, which they recently put up for sale.
"How many playgrounds are there that are two to three hours from New York City?" asked Mr. Kaylor, who as a result of his experience with the house became a contractor after being a business partner in his wife's medical device consulting business. "When the brand new model of the Lexus sells out, we don't have to worry about selling houses. I feel very positive about the market this year." 
They restored the house, which was in shambles when they bought it on Halloween of 1996, without the aid of an architect. Besides numerous luxuries, they put in some uniquely practical amenities, like a faucet over the stove so that heavy pots can easily be filled with water and dim bedroom floor lights that go on automatically when an occupant gets up at night. 
Why would they leave a house into which they had poured so much labor?
"I have the attention span of a 5-year-old," said Ms. Young, a corporate strategist who also runs an antique garden ornament business out of the great hall of the house. "Now we want to build a U- or H-shaped farm around a courtyard." 
No matter the locale, serious buyers must be prepared to move fast, as Ed Mufson, who helps small and middle-size companies raise funds, learned recently. Mr. Mufson, who has been going to the Berkshires since childhood, has long yearned to buy a house there. 
"I started looking in July last year and must have looked at every house from the low to the high end of the price range," he said the other day. It had to be fairly isolated, have at least three bedrooms and be priced between the high $200,000's and low $400,000's. Most of what I saw was totally inappropriate, and I was despairing."
He had just about resigned himself to renting again when he got a call from Elaine Steinert, an associate broker with Cohen & White Associates in Lenox, Mass. 
"I was on vacation in Turks and Caicos," he said. "She announced, 'I've got a house for you, and you have to buy it.' "
"I said, 'I can't buy a house I've never seen.' I took my chances for three days, came home on a Saturday, drove up Sunday morning and called a bid in." 
Next week he will close on the house, which is situated on three acres in Richmond, Mass., paying just under $400,000. "I didn't look to fully exploit the downturn," he said. "I probably could have gotten it for a little less, but I think it is a good investment and it has everything I wanted."
Money seems to be no obstacle to the people who buy the one or two houses put up annually in East Hampton or Bridgehampton by John Shanholt, a designer and builder. 
"If a house is over $8 million and someone wants to buy it, they just do," Mr. Shanholt said. He is now building a spec house in Bridgehampton with pool, tennis court, spa, waterfall and several golf greens and anticipates getting $4 million to $5 million without any resistance. 
"I'm not even sure that a small downturn in the economy will affect my clients," he said. "After all, if you're worth $100 million and two weeks later you're worth $95 million, you can still afford a house. It is the middle part of the market that is most deeply affected." What constitutes a middle-range property depends on the locale and varies widely from the Hamptons, where $1 million is routine, to under $500,000 in Ulster County, N.Y. In the Lenox area of the Berkshires, Ellen Cohen said, "The middle range is from $350,000 to $600,000, and the upper end goes from $650,000 up."
In Ulster County, known for mountain climbing, hiking, trail biking and proximity to the State University of New York at New Paltz. "There is a fair inventory of houses in the $500,000 and up category, but there is a small group of people who can afford that or want to spend it," said George Danskin, an associate broker with Studley Real Estate in New Paltz. "There are not a lot of houses in the $150,000 to $275,000 range."
"But I don't want people with less than $200,000 to think they can't come here at all," he went on. "I have one new listing for a three-bedroom, 2,000-square-foot farmhouse with lots of architectural detail on four and a half acres for $194,000. That one will be snapped up fast. " 
It is also in the more moderate categories that the recent Federal Reserve interest rate reductions are most deeply felt. 
"It's still a seller's market, and in my opinion that is due to the lowered interest rate," said Tom Panepinto, a lawyer in Bayonne and Wall Township, N.J., who has been handling closings on the shore for 25 years. "When interest rates go down, that motivates people. When I started out in 1975, interest rates for mortgages were about 8 percent. Now they are 6 1/2 to 7 percent. People don't mind if they are paying $10,000 more than they expected if the 30-year payout is $68 extra a month."
This week's surprise cut by the Federal Reserve in short-term interest rates, the fourth this year, is considered likely to lead to further reductions in mortgage rates. 
DAVIS R. CHANT, chairman of a six-office realty firm in the Delaware River region of Pennsylvania, Sussex County in New Jersey and Sullivan County in the Catskills, agreed that interest rates were driving new business.
Describing his market as "not booming but very active," Mr. Chant said: "The interest rates are wonderful. They allow someone who maybe had a $2,000-a-month discretionary income for a second home that might someday be a retirement home to buy a substantially larger property. They have shaken a lot of people loose. They know interest rates won't be at this level forever."
His organization is currently marketing 34 lots for Lake Wallenpaupack in the Poconos in eastern Pennsylvania. 
"With no advertising we have 22 of those properties under contract with house-land packages running from $300,000 to $1 million," he said. Though they can bring in their own architects, buyers must commit to conform to certain aesthetic and construction standards and to use Joybeck Builders.
Like other brokers, Mr. Chant has had clients tell him they have decided to put their investments into real estate rather than into financial markets. And while they're at it, they figure they may as well reap some pleasure as well. 
"We're seeing a lot of people who got out of the stock market early and decided that investing in a piece of land on a lake, a mountain, a golf course is a better investment," he said. "I am also seeing people who didn't get out of the market. They have taken their licking and with what's left may buy their dream home. They're not necessarily liquidating their portfolios but are thinking maybe it's a good time to make an investment of some cash in a mortgage and buy a country home."
Elyse Harney agreed. "Some of our recent buys have come from the idea that money in property is safer," she said. "No matter what the stock market does, you can put your money here, touch, see and enjoy the real worth. It is not paper. It does not evaporate on a whim or a news story."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shohola, Pa. -- 3-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath cedar lakefront home with a fireplace, brick patio and 1-story rental property on 2.6 acres, $525,000. (Salvatore C. DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times); Cornwall, Conn. -- 2-bedroom, 2-bath cedar and glass house, 19.6 wooded acres, $650,000. Point Pleasant Beach, N.J. -- Right, 7-bedroom, 5 1/2-bath, 3-story oceanfront house, $2,685,000. (George Ruhe for The New York Times); (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Hawley, Pa. -- 2-bedroom, 1-bath ranch with deck, $75,000. (Salvatore C. DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times); Sag Harbor, N.Y. 4-bedroom, 3 1/2-bath house with pool, $1.8 million. (Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); HOME PRICES (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); AUCTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); STOCK INDEXES (73%) HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S INTERNATIONAL REALTY INC (69%)

PERSON: BROZAN, NADINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



615 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY & CO.; 
New EcoComplex Is All Kinds of Green

BYLINE:  By GEORGE JAMES 

DATELINE: COLUMBUS 

 BODY:
ABOUT a thousand feet from a landfill in this Burlington County hamlet is a large building that is green in more ways than one. Its color is a deep forest green but it is green in an ecological sense as well, having been built, for example, with beams that were created from recycled metal and sun panels that provide natural heating and light. 
 More important, its purpose is to serve as a research center and incubator for companies tackling environmental problems like reducing methane and carbon dioxide in the atmosphere and in that way spur economic development. 
 The New Jersey EcoComplex -- which is being dedicated tomorrow at ceremonies attended by state officials, including Acting Governor Donald DiFrancesco -- is being trumpeted by its creators as the nation's first statewide environmental research and technology development center. 
"We need to be able to provide assistance to entrepreneurs who are focusing on environmental problems," said Harry W. Janes, a biochemist with Rutgers' Cook College who serves as director. "And we believe New Jersey is sort of a microcosm of the nation in that, because of our industrial base and because of our high population density, we will see environmental challenges first."
Two companies that are experimenting with landfill gas, Acrion Technologies Inc., based in Cleveland, and Carbozyme Inc., which recently relocated from Houston, have taken up residence in the two-and- a-half-story, 32,000-square-foot facility.
A joint venture of Rutgers' New Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station, Stevens Institute of Technology and the Burlington County Board of Chosen Freeholders, the center is also developing environmental education programs including courses for children in kindergarten through eighth grade and workshops for teachers.
The center is an extension of the Agricultural Experiment Station concept, Dr. Janes said. The stations were created in the late 1800's by the federal government and based at state universities, like Rutgers, to provide research and information for small farmers.
"We need to have a clean environment but we also need industry," Dr. Janes said. 
"What we can do at the state university," he added, "is we can begin working with the state and with industry to find solutions to those problems that are providing negative impacts onto our environment. And that's kind of why we began developing the EcoComplex along the same lines as agricultural experiment stations but more towards environmental issues."
The EcoCenter cost $6 million to build, of which $5 million came from the State Higher Education Facility Trust Fund and $1 million from Burlington County.
On one side of a large atrium is a 120-seat auditorium and two adjacent 30-seat classrooms with partitions that can be removed so the rooms can become part of the auditorium. On the other side are offices, labs and other work space. The second floor on one end of the building houses the offices of the landfill, the Burlington County Resource Recovery Center. The EcoCenter is working with the Resource Recovery Center in a landfill mining project to see what material can be reprocessed.
Other projects include doing research for NASA on growing and processing food and recycling waste on long space flights, exploring how to recycle material dredged from the Delaware River, and exploring with the state Department of Environmental Protection the quality of some watersheds.
Michael Trachtenberg, chief executive of Carbozyme Inc., which is trying to reduce carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by by attaching enzymes to artificial membranes, said he knew of no other environmental research and technology development center like the EcoCenter in the country.
"And I'm aware of lots of incubators that universities have and development centers," Mr. Trachtenberg said. "I think this one is pretty unique. And the emphasis on developing green technologies is very much on the cutting edge."
One way the center is special, he said, is that it provides laboratory and development space that allows an entrepreneur to perform a large-scale demonstration of his technology.
"The ability to go from a laboratory scale into a field test unit is one of the real keys in moving technology from just a bright idea," Mr. Trachtenberg said.
Acrion, for example, has built a model of a processing unit, three stories high, in a large room at the center, to experiment with separating landfill gas into pure methane, which can be used as fuel, and pure carbon dioxide, which will be tested as a way to enhance the growth of plants in the Burlington County Research and Demonstration Greenhouse. The greenhouse, a half mile away, has been in operation five years and is part of the EcoCenter.
Lawrence A. Siwajek, senior engineer for Acrion, said the Ohio company chose to test its process at this complex in New Jersey because of the large space for scale-up demonstration, proximity to the landfill and the technical assistance available from scientists at Rutgers and Stevens. 
"It's just the right place to conduct this study," Mr. Siwajek said. "We've done research like this in the laboratory and we've operated units very similar to this, but this one can be operated with continuous landfill gas. So it's the real thing."
Dr. Janes said that once companies have gone from lab testing to commercial use -- what he calls "the valley of death" where many business fail -- they would move out of the EcoCenter.
"You get a technology to a point where if you have it working at a reputable facility," Dr. Janes said, "people are going to come in and see it and hopefully going to be more likely to invest and buy and license it."
So where others see garbage when they look at the landfill in the EcoCenter's backyard, Dr. Janes sees business opportunity combined with a chance to safeguard the environment.
"Because of the fact we're here at a landfill," he said, "we have a real-world lab to which these companies can come and experiment."

GRAPHIC: Photos: EcoComplex in Columbus, far left, houses Acrion's cleanup and recovery unit, above. At left, Harry W. Janes, right, the complex's director, with Michael Trachtenberg of Carbozyme Inc. (Sal DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANDFILLS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (89%); METHANE (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (78%); COUNTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (77%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); POPULATION DENSITY (75%); RELOCATIONS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); GOVERNORS (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (68%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (68%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (66%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (64%); TEACHER EDUCATION (63%) ENVIRONMENT; CONSERVATION OF RESOURCES; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; ENERGY EFFICIENCY 

COMPANY: ACRION TECHNOLOGIES INC (67%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (67%)

PERSON: JAMES, GEORGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



616 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: COMMUNITIES; 
Every Vote Counts, but Not Everyone Votes

BYLINE:  By STEVEN STRUNSKY 

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY 

 BODY:
AS a student at New York Law School, Stephanie Weaver has a lot on her mind. Not Jersey City politics, though.
 Although Ms. Weaver, 24, a native of Austin, Tex., has lived in Jersey City for a year and a half, she is like many of her 9,000 or so neighbors on the waterfront in the sprawling Newport development in that she is not registered to vote here. 
 "I don't consider it my permanent address," Ms. Weaver said. 
A group of more politically minded Newport residents, calling themselves the Waterfront Association, did try to set up voter registration tables in lobbies of the development's high-rise apartment buildings last month, although the Queens-based developer of the 600-acre complex, the Lefrak Organization, would not allow it. And while a mayoral candidate in the city's May 8 election did manage to convince Lefrak to slip 3,145 voter registration forms under tenants' doors two weeks ago, only 200 were filled out and left with a concierge for delivery to the Hudson County commissioner of registration before the registration deadline of 9 p.m. on April 9.
Ms. Weaver, for example, ignored hers. A neighbor, Casper Sorensen, said he could not even remember getting one. "I probably did, but I didn't pay attention," said Mr. Sorensen, 27, a Newport resident since 1998, who, as a Danish citizen, cannot vote. "I outsource that to my wife." 
Since a $40 million federal urban development grant helped Lefrak begin developing Newport in the 1980's on a blighted stretch of Hudson River waterfront, it has been a community largely isolated physically and in civic life from the rest of Jersey City. A huge parking garage for the Newport Center mall acts as a great wall separating Newport from historic downtown neighborhoods, whose brick and brownstone townhouses look nothing like Newport's nine apartment towers and three high-rise office buildings.
The residents of Newport are also viewed by the rest of the city and at least somewhat by themselves as a politically, socially and economically disengaged group. They beat a path to the PATH in the morning, then head straight back home after work or a night out in New York. "I guess part of that is true," said Min Lu, a 20-something stock analyst for a Manhattan firm who moved to Newport a year ago from Denver. 
Like Ms. Lu, who is Chinese, and Mr. Sorensen, many of Newport's residents are not citizens, and therefore could not vote if they wanted to. Edward Cortese, a vice president of the Lefrak Organization, which also built Lefrak City in Queens and much of Battery Park City in Manhattan, said 10 percent of Newport residents moved in from other countries. An additional 80 percent moved from New York City, he said. 
Socioeconomics also separate Newport residents from other residents of the city. Rents for the newest two-bedroom apartments at Newport range from $2,450 to $3,400 a month, much higher than most of Jersey City, which, beyond its growing waterfront skyline and its gentrifying downtown neighborhoods, remains essentially a working-class town. 
Nearly 90 percent of Newport's occupants are renters, a relatively transient group that is less likely to vote, with only 445 condominiums among Newport's 3,600 apartments. While there are plenty of baby strollers around Newport, there are relatively few school-age children. So the two biggest issues in local politics -- property taxes and the quality of the schools -- are of little concern to most Newport residents. 
But they are not without their complaints: constant building is eliminating any open space; roads are constantly closed to make way for construction; heating bills are high; there are few shops outside the mall, which is several blocks from the residences. And, say members of the Waterfront Association, Newport's management and city officials have been unresponsive to residents' concerns because of their lack of clout at the ballot box. 
"Everybody's saying we don't vote," said Eleanor Capograsso, a 41-year-old Manhattan lawyer and co-founder of the association. "I finally said, enough is enough."
So last month, the association put up fliers indicating voter registration tables would be set up in the lobbies of Newport apartment buildings. But on March 11, the day before the tables were to be set up, Lefrak's management company subsidiary, Presidential Management Corporation, countered with its own fliers warning residents that no such activity was allowed. The intent, the notice said, was "to promote the safety of our residents as well as to preserve the character of our buildings."
Mr. Cortese, the Lefrak vice president, said the developer was not trying to suppress voter registration but rather to discourage strangers from making their way onto residential floors.
James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University, said it was unlikely a large developer would want to suppress his own tenants' voting rights, and thereby minimize the development's clout at city hall, because often a landlord's and tenants' interests overlap.
For example, eleven Newport properties have city tax abatements, which contribute a total of $13.1 million a year to city coffers, but also save the developer -- and indirectly, the supposition goes, his tenants -- millions of dollars a year compared with what would be paid under standard property tax assessments. 
But even the abatements are a source of resentment among individual commercial and residential property owners, some of whom feel they are subsidizing the abated properties. Councilman Robert Cavanaugh, the mayoral candidate who asked Lefrak to distribute the voter registration forms, said he had been angered by Lefrak's refusal to allow voter registration tables in Newport lobbies. "How can they argue that this is private property, when by virtue of the tax abatements we are a partner with them?" Mr. Cavanaugh said. "I don't care whether it's common areas or private property or whatever, it's a free speech issue."
In fact, the Waterfront Association contacted the New Jersey Tenants Organization, which supplied it case law the organization said established apartment lobbies as public space where voter registration should be allowed.
But no suit was ever filed. Instead, Newport consented to Mr. Cavanaugh's request and distributed the voter registration forms on Thursday, April 5, four days including the Passover and Easter holidays before the registration deadline for the May 8 council and mayoral election. 
Others may register by May 7 for the June 5 primary for governor, state Senate and Assembly, and county sheriff. Jersey City's mayor, Bret D. Schundler, is seeking the Republican gubernatorial nomination. 
Mr. Schundler, once a city newcomer himself, said it was understandable that the newcomers of Newport would tend not to vote. But Tom DeGise, a Jersey City native who is the city council president and a mayoral candidate, said, "I think that the Newport people do have an obligation to become part of our community and go through our institutions."
To some residents of Guttenberg, just up the river from Jersey City, aggressive participation in local politics by the relative newcomers at the Galaxy Towers condominium complex has been a source of resentment for years.
"We had to literally register voters to create the power block to overcome the town's initial inertia in giving us municipal services," said Sanford Simon, president of the Galaxy Towers Condominium Association. But, he added, "we have found that both the town and certain Galaxy residents are reaching across Boulevard East and recognizing that we live in the same town." 
Of course, as tax-paying condominium owners, Galaxy residents have a strong motivation to vote that most Newport residents lack. 
It may simply be that, when it comes to getting involved in local affairs, newcomers are darned if they do and darned if they don't. As Professor Hughes at Rutgers put it, "If residents of Newport started getting active and, say, they wanted to get involved in the school system, there might be an attitude of, 'Why don't they butt out?' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fermin Garcia, general manager of residential operations at Newport apartments, at the collection box for voter registration forms in the lobby. Residents of the development often are not registered voters and are isolated from the rest of Jersey City. Above, the Pavonia/ Newport PATH station. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times); (Monica Graff for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); POLITICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); LOBBYING (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); COUNTIES (71%); MAYORS (71%) REGISTRATION OF VOTERS; HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; ELECTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: LEFRAK ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: STRUNSKY, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) JERSEY CITY (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



617 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS; 
Happier Days Here Again For the State's Democrats

BYLINE:  By Iver Peterson; Iver Peterson reports from Trenton for The New York Times.

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
It looks like more good news for the Democrats. For a change.
 The latest polls show that allegations of double-dealing by the acting governor, Donald T. DiFrancesco, are starting to bite into his poll numbers and into his support among county chairmen, while Bret Schundler, the only other Republican in sight in the race for governor, is of doubtful electability, however much he mutes some of his conservative positions. 
 The Democrats, meanwhile, having won both past United States Senate races and having narrowed the Republican majorities in the State House, seem set to win the decennial struggle to draw the new state legislative districts as well. A victory there would put the Republicans' ability to hold the Assembly in serious doubt, at the least. 
This is a change from the drumbeat of bad news the Democrats have had to endure over the past decade, ever since they tried to balance the books with an actual tax increase and were cast into the darkness by the Republicans. 
The G.O.P. has had control of the State House for 10 years now, and it was not so very long ago when the deep thinkers who wrote stuff like this column were saying that the combination of general prosperity, the spread of suburban political piety, and a dutifully moderate Republican Party had given the Republicans a lock on New Jersey for the foreseeable future.
Well, the near future, at least, is a little more seeable now and it looks better for the Democrats. 
In the reapportionment debate, the Democrats managed to get through a new legislative district map that unpacks the majority black Newark districts in the current map to create a handful of part-city, part-suburban districts containing solid blocs of reliably Democratic-voting minorities.
The Republicans, expressing a tender concern for black voting rights, want to keep the old system, on the ground that it at least guaranteed a handful of minority legislators in Trenton. That the old system made it easier for Republicans to be elected from Newark's suburbs is not stressed, but with a federal court hearing set for tomorrow, the Democrats appear to have the upper hand.
If the map goes the Democrats' way, it could cost the Republicans three or four seats, representing a big chunk of the G.O.P.'s 45-35 plurality in the Assembly. The Republicans maintain that unless a district is overwhelmingly black, an African-American candidate has no chance of being elected. They cite the case of Cardell Cooper, a black Democrat who ran and lost for Essex County executive in 1994. The Republicans' analysis shows that Democratic voters worked their way around Mr. Cooper on the ballot, favoring fellow-Democrats in other offices but jumping to the Republican side against Mr. Cooper for executive. 
The Democrats seem on the surface to have the better of the argument when they point to senators like Wayne Bryant of Camden County and Shirley Turner of Mercer, both blacks who won in white majority districts. But a closer look at the returns shows that both of them ran behind other white candidates in the districts, a fact that the Republicans are certain to point out to the three-judge federal panel in tomorrow's arguments.
Meanwhile, Mr. DiFrancesco, the acting governor, is hardly turning out to be the dream date many Republicans had expected to waltz them back into the governorship and control of the Legislature. As a 21-year veteran of the statehouse, a moderate and considerate politician, Mr. DiFrancesco had seemed to be the polished and professional insider they needed to win. But now it seems that Mr. DiFrancesco has been a little too much of an insider, as he finds himself fending off disclosures last week that, in addition to taking $225,000 from a developer, he violated ethics law by favoring his family's real estate interests over those of Scotch Plains, when he was the town attorney, in 1998.
A Star-Ledger/Eagleton poll released Thursday found that not many New Jerseyans had heard about the brewing scandal, but that those who had thought less of him for it.
Mr. Schundler, the mayor of Jersey City and a defender of free-market economies and the freedom to own guns, but not the freedom to have abortions, is still a long shot, despite Mr. DiFrancesco's efforts to paint him as presiding over a dangerous and corrupt city. But as Mr. Schundler found out in his race for the United States Senate last year, he is too conservative for New Jersey, and so he is far from the favorite of the party leaders.
The Republicans cannot even take heart from the evident availability of Bob Franks, the former United States Representative who ran such a strong and brave race against Senator John Corzine last year: even though he was in all the papers and all over television not seven months ago, the latest Eagleton poll shows that few voters even remember him.
The Democrats will eventually have to deal with the problems their champion, Senator Robert Torricelli, has become enmeshed in, but not until next year. In the meantime, the Democrats are all smiles and confidence.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 23, 2001

 CORRECTION:
The "On Politics" column in the New Jersey section yesterday, about the outlook for the state's Democratic politicians, misstated the role of Jersey City's mayor, Bret D. Schundler, in last year's Republican contest for United States Senate. Mr. Schundler did not run; he supported James W. Treffinger, the Essex County executive.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iver Peterson 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); REDISTRICTING (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (71%); SUBURBS (70%); TAX LAW (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); REAPPORTIONMENT; MINORITIES (US); PUBLIC OPINION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) 

PERSON: DIFRANCESCO, DONALD T (ACTING GOV); PETERSON, IVER 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (69%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



618 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Bon Appetit!, Jersey-Style; 
A Bounty of Choices And Connections Too

BYLINE:  By RONALD SMOTHERS 

 BODY:
CREAM cheese or creme brulee, it doesn't much matter. When New Jersey's power brokers break bread, the real hunger is for a prime slice of the Boardwalk, a better legislative committee assignment or an inside track on a land deal. Sometimes, money has even been known to change hands -- above the table or underneath (this is New Jersey, after all). The food happens to be on the table.
 The deal-making usually begins not long after sunrise, almost certainly over coffee and perhaps a sunny-side-up egg winking up at the mayor in a local diner. 
 When it comes to lunch or dinner, chances are the menu will have an Italian flavor: at Solari's in Hackensack or Pronto Cena in Jersey City.
That is also true in Atlantic City, which has seen its centers of power dining change with the skyline. Old-timers remember the Stanley for lunch and Orsatti's for dinner on Friday night, where kissing the ring of Senator Frank (Hap) Farley was much more important than the catch of the day. Today, the G & S Italian Supermarket at lunch is the place to see and be seen.
But some things never change. As long as there is power -- to be flexed, to be savored or both -- there will be power dining. Here's a look at some of the places where it takes place in New Jersey.

NEWARK
BEHIND the plate-glass windows of the Commerce Food Court, ringed as it is in frequently fogged blue neon, the diversity of the customers is matched only by that of the 72-item menu that runs well past soup to nuts to sushi, brioche and collard greens.
On any given day you stand a good chance of running into a former mayor (Kenneth Gibson) or a former senator (Frank R. Lautenberg) or a current state senator (Ronald Rice) as well as the people who run the Newark Performing Arts Center and the city's well-known jazz radio station, WBGO-FM. They are seated amid New Jersey Transit workers from the agency's headquarters three blocks away, Drug Enforcement Agency employees from across the street and workers from the nearby Newark Board of Education or Housing Authority.
Feldman Middleton, an owner of the restaurant, likes to say it is a democratic place "with both a capital 'D' and a small 'd'." Mr. Middleton and his partner, Lee Hew, decided in 1997 to take a chance on stirrings of revitalization in the city's downtown and opened the buffet-style restaurant in what was formerly a beauty college.
Larry Goldman, president of the New Jersey Performing Arts Center, which is two blocks away, said that while he is a sucker for the Commerce Food Court's spare ribs, that's not the No. 1 reason n he goes there frequently.
"It's like getting lost in the crowd and a crowd where everyone is concentrating on their lunch," he said. "I don't experience a half a dozen interruptions from someone saying they enjoyed a performance at the center or are having trouble getting tickets. Of course I usually like that sort of thing, but sometimes I go there with someone so we can just talk without interruptions."
For others such as Christian Benedetto, a partner in and director of real estate services for the local realty firm National Redevelopment, it is the crowds and traffic that are the lure. He said that on some days when he is having trouble connecting with someone by telephone, he can end the phone tag by dropping into the food court for 10 minutes or so around lunchtime.
Cephas Bowles, the general manager of WBGO-FM, has also found himself doing business at the food court, but that's not its main attraction for him.
"It's a homey place where you can unwind from the stress of the morning," he said. "It's clean with homecooked meals and you can let your hair down a bit."
 RONALD SMOTHERS
Commerce Food Court, 1136 Raymond Boulevard, Newark (973) 242-1778.

GRAPHIC: Photo: With an international buffet, the Commerce Food Court in Newark attracts diners from all walks of life. (Don Standing for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (66%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (60%); COSMETOLOGY & BARBER SCHOOLS (60%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (50%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (50%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (50%) RESTAURANTS 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE FOOD COURT (NEWARK, NJ, RESTAURANT) 

PERSON: FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%) SMOTHERS, RONALD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



619 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 58 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFING: THE ECONOMY; 
UNEMPLOYMENT UP A BIT

BYLINE:  By Anne Ruderman

 BODY:
 State unemployment rose slightly to 3.8 percent in March, up from a three-decade-low rate of 3.6 percent in both January and February. The 3.8 percent March figure places New Jersey unemployment below the national rate for the 15th consecutive month. State unemployment has also remained at or below 4.0 percent for over a year. Anne Ruderman

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



620 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFING: ENVIRONMENT; 
LAND SAVED IN MONMOUTH

BYLINE:  By Kirsty Sucato 

 BODY:
One of the largest remaining undeveloped properties in Monmouth County will be preserved as open space under a $19 million deal announced last week.
 The 416-acre tract off Holmdel Road in Holmdel includes two working farms and a historic farmhouse. 
The owner, Chase Manhattan Bank, had agreed to sell the land to a developer, Howard Shoor, who sought permission to build a 475-home retirement community. But after opposition from residents, the bank agreed to sell the land to conservationists. 
 Under the deal, the state Agriculture Development Committee will spend $8.7 million; the state Green Acres program, $4.3 million; Holmdel, $3.5 million; Monmouth County, $2 million; and local conservation groups, $500,000. About 226 acres will be used as a park. An additional 190 acres will be sold as farmland, officials said. Kirsty Sucato

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (86%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (68%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (94%)

PERSON: RUDERMAN, ANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



621 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: IN BUSINESS; 
MetLife Is Offered Incentives To Add Workers in County

BYLINE:  By Robert Worth 

 BODY:
Westchester County has offered $307,000 in sales tax abatements to MetLife, the nation's largest life insurer, in an effort to persuade the company to move more than 100 of its employees to White Plains. 
 MetLife has expressed interest in moving into several floors at 445 Hamilton Avenue, a vacant building the company already owns. 
 In addition to the tax abatements, the county could offer MetLife reduced rates for parking and electricity, said Salvatore J. Carrera, the county's director of economic development. 
MetLife, which already has about 100 people in an office on North Broadway, is moving as many as 1,700 employees out of its headquarters in New York City and is considering other locations in the metropolitan area.
If the company does move a group to White Plains, it will invest $6 million in renovations and new equipment over the next two years, said John Calagna, a spokesman for MetLife.
But Mr. Calagna said such a move would not be a precursor to moving a significant number of additional employees from Manhattan to the county.
 Robert Worth

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCENTIVES (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); SALES TAX (88%); RELOCATIONS (88%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (88%); BUILDING RENOVATION (71%) INSURANCE; LABOR; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL 

COMPANY: METLIFE INC (93%); AQUANTIVE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE CO 

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (93%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (93%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (93%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%)

PERSON: WORTH, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); WHITE PLAINS (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



622 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: THE AGE OF DISSONANCE; 
Out of the Office, Looking In

BYLINE:  By BOB MORRIS 

 BODY:
 ISAK DINESEN had a farm in Africa. I had a desk in the meat-packing district. It was a July to December 2000 office romance -- the first office job I'd had in 10 years, and the perfect moment for it, because offices were the new hotel lobbies way back then. Even now, they promote the lost optimism of the days when new economy companies seduced employees with on-site basketball courts, Ping-Pong tables and massages. 
 In the view of "Workspheres," which closes today at the Museum of Modern Art, the new office promotes individuality and creativity. Indeed, what could have been more creative than my gig assigning fun articles for a magazine called Fuse? 
In a big white studio, phones rang and messengers darted: intrigue, thin people with good hair, collaboration and the urgency of a war room and a sandbox. It was the perfect cure for my office envy.
What is office envy? It's not just coveting offices cooler than your own -- that's old school. These days, it's the envy of having any office at all. "Up until now, I never had to wait on a line at a post office in New York," said Charla Krupp, who left Glamour for Eve.com, which imploded, leaving her to freelance from her apartment. "I mean, do you know how disgusting that is?"
For those who have always worked at home, it isn't convenience we envy as much as the vibe. Rodney Rothman even wrote a fictionalized nonfiction New Yorker piece last winter about moving into a dot-com office without a job. Tom Beller, another writer, finds himself lingering when visiting friends at work. "My own schedule with its freedom and vagueness is without boundaries," he said. "And boundaries are things against which you can define yourself." 
At Fuse, I defined myself as an editor at large. Oh, the chic of that title on our chic business cards! And oh, my desk -- expensive, minimal, with steel legs and laminated top a minty Prada green. We sat in rows, as if in a classroom where you didn't have to raise your hand before interrupting.
We yelled. We threw cookies and ideas around. It was seductive, like childhood, a polymorphously playful time. And now it's gone, after a single issue. 
Last Monday, when those who still have offices to go to were in them, syngergizing, my envy became overwhelming. So I got on my bike and visited Oxygen Media in the Chelsea Market Building, with its "Star Wars" elevator, "convergence lab" for new technology and flexible space, which its architects say, promotes "controlled accidents" among the staff. Then I hit 435 Hudson Street in Greenwich Village, where Radical Media's airy offices, designed by the fun-loving architect David Rockwell, sent me into an apoplexy of desire. "It's a socialized space for the cross-pollenization of talent," Jon Kamen, a founder, explained. Hey, I can cross-pollenize, I wanted to say. I didn't get a space out of it. But I got a delicious lunch in the dining area, catered by a full-time food manager on the staff.
"I keep wondering when they'll give us an omelet station," another manager said.
Later, in the uber-groovy Starrett Lehigh Building on West 26th Street, I toured the gorgeous white offices of a new arts management company, Mixed Greens. The view is far too commanding for the Gen Y-sters on the staff if you ask me. I got a tour from someone on the "art team," who offered me chocolates and Scotch. She invited me to take off my shoes and climb onto a "personal perch" for perspective, too.
"There's a real commitment to personal fulfillment here," she told me. O.K., we all know how casual companies have become, inspired more by tribal villages than by flow charts. But was this a business or a kindergarten? Never mind that its very existence seemed out of step with this morning-after moment. What I wanted to know was, how could I get in on it without actually working there? Could I be an installation?
Back home, feeling cheated and alone, I sat at my desk opening mail. A summons to jury duty. Hmmm. It'll do, I guess.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Matthew Martin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (77%); WRITERS (74%); NEW ECONOMY (71%); BASKETBALL (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (62%) LABOR; OFFICES; WORKING AT HOME 

PERSON: MORRIS, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



623 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1594 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/Hyundai XG300 and Kia Optima; 
Out of the Cheap Seats, Into the Luxury Box

BYLINE:  By PETER PASSELL

 BODY:
HEY, honey, I didn't know they were loaning you a Jaguar!" my wife exclaimed as I pulled in the driveway. Actually, I thought the Hyundai XG300, its generic "near luxury" aura only slightly marred by excessive chrome, looked more like a Lincoln LS. And if Infiniti pressed charges over the theft of its grille, what jury wouldn't convict?
 Any of these comparisons, though, should delight Hyundai's marketers. After a decade spent trying to erase the image of their products as Korea's answer to the Yugo, they finally have a car capable of grabbing a chunk of the upscale American market. 
 Hyundai, you may recall, hit the beaches of California in 1986 with its Excel subcompact. Americans were initially inclined to assume that South Korean automobiles would share the design and workmanship of cars from Japan. The Excel sold well initially -- the 186,000 vehicles it delivered in one year was an American record for a new car company -- and was followed by other models with irresistible sticker prices. 
But Hyundai's growing pains were, well, painful. Its cars, never much to look at, were dogged with quality and reliability problems, and the company lost whatever good will it had inadvertently gained from misplaced association with the Japanese.
Kia's origins as a bicycle maker in the late 1940's were humbler than Hyundai's. And it remained dependent on foreign technology longer, assembling cars for Peugeot, Fiat and Ford. But Korea's mania for global growth, fueled by a banking system eager to provide capital to any well-connected company with export plans, enveloped Kia, too.
But by the time Kia products arrived in the mid-1990's, Americans were less ready, to say the least, to embrace Korean cars. The small Sephia sedan and the Sportage mini-sport utility made their debuts to cool, even hostile, reviews that took note of their shabby materials, primitive drivetrains, third-world workmanship and even the acrid odor of their plastics.
Kia Motors was effectively forced to establish a beachhead by pricing low and selling to people with bad credit, plus 20-somethings on shoestring budgets. The Kia Rio sedan pushes this marketing approach to the limit: a stripped version, with a surprisingly peppy 96-horsepower engine, can be had for about $9,000.
The Asian financial crisis, on top of the global auto industry's hugely excessive production capacity, doomed Korean conglomerates' plans to expand on the basis of volume, rather than profits. In late 1998, Hyundai absorbed the bankrupt Kia and set about reorganizing the combined businesses.
Hyundai is keeping Kia separate for marketing purposes, at least for now, but the merged company is committed to reducing costs by cutting its vehicle platforms to just 8 by 2005, from 23 now. This means that Hyundai and Kia will be sharing underbodies and drivetrains, just as American and Japanese carmakers often do, to spread development costs over more products.
And management seems to have concluded that Hyundai's long-term success depends on going upscale, holding customers in rapidly developing economies while hitting the sweet, high-margin spot with affluent Americans and Europeans.
The first step, of course, was to transform the made-in-Korea label from a liability into something approaching an asset. Hyundai (followed by Kia) took a big step by offering the best warranty in the industry: bumper-to-bumper coverage of 5 years or 60,000 miles, and 10 years or 100,000 miles on the drivetrain, plus 5 years of roadside assistance. Judging by the figures, this confidence-building warranty is working: Hyundai sales, a wretched 90,000 in 1998, jumped nearly 50 percent last year, to 244,000. They have risen 26 percent so far in 2001.
It may be an even greater challenge to move Hyundai up to the middle of the rich American market, which brings us back to the XG300. Study this car, and you know Hyundai is aiming high. The exterior looks substantial and quietly handsome; the interior is exceptionally well finished with expensive-looking materials -- more Infiniti I30 or Acura TL than Toyota Camry or Honda Accord.
The XG300 comes in two finishes, basic and L. They share a 3-liter V-6, a five-speed automatic transmission with a Tiptronic-like manual override, electronic traction control, four-wheel antilock disc brakes, front and side air bags, leather seats, heated mirrors, automatic climate control, six-speaker sound system and keyless entry. Indeed, the only additions of consequence on the L model are a power sunroof and an auto-dimming rear-view mirror.
The XG300's leather front seats are as comfortable as most in the near-luxury crowd, though a lack of headroom makes it impractical to raise the driver's seat as high as I would like. The rear fits three adequately, with enough legroom and almost enough shoulder room for a daylong outing. And the sense of luxury increases when the car is in motion: noise levels -- from wind, tires and engine -- are very low, if not quite Lexus-silent. Rough-road vibration is nicely dampened without the riding-on-a-down-cushion feel of, say, the Toyota Avalon.
The XG300 is not for driving enthusiasts. Acceleration from the 192-horse engine is more than adequate -- a more powerful 3.5-liter V-6 is said to be on the way -- but the front-drive sedan protests mildly in hard turns. Bigger wheels with low-profile tires might help -- 15-inch alloy wheels are standard -- but at some sacrifice in ride. In any event, the handling complaints probably won't mean much to buyers, who are likely to be more concerned with comfort and safety than with agile road manners.
Did I mention value? The base-model XG300, which is a lot more than basic, lists for $23,994. Edmunds.com, which provides buying information online, estimates that you can get one for about $22,700. That's $3,700 less than a comparably equipped V-6 Camry and $2,500 less than the Nissan Maxima GLE. The XG300 L is selling for $23,900, Edmunds says, which is $3,500 less than a loaded Diamante from Mitsubishi, another brand that needs to build some good will.
Hyundai may have something even bigger up its sleeves. At the New York auto show, it is displaying the LZ450, a Korean-market luxury sedan that appears to be aimed at the largest Lexus. While the company says it currently has no plans to import that car, it is sending a clear message that it can't be taken lightly any longer.
The other new Korean car on the block, the Kia Optima, also displays its virtues with diffidence. The vaguely Japanese styling looks a bit like a Mitsubishi Galant's. It seats four (but not five) nicely, like the Hyundai Sonata. That is no coincidence, since the Optima and Sonata share their architecture and mechanical parts, though Kia assembles the Optima in its own plant.
Those who associate Kia with bare-bones Sephias or Rios are in for a surprise. This is nobody's idea of lowest-common-denominator transportation. A medium-plain LX is available, with a 149-horsepower four-cylinder engine and five-speed manual, but I drove the fancier SE with a 170-horsepower V-6. This engine was more than adequate for freeway ramps and such. And while the smooth four-speed automatic was occasionally pokey in downshifting, one can compensate by using the Sportmatic manual override, also standard with the V-6.
The car's finish was surprisingly good, and the power-adjustable driver's seat, borrowed from the XG300, was a pleasure. The Optima isn't nearly as quiet as the XG300, but with less weight, a stiffer suspension and a shorter wheelbase, it handles better.
The Optima is no sports car, of course. Nor is it the equal of a Volkswagen Passat in the handling department. But its tight, predictable steering and lack of body roll on curves make it a lot less boring to drive on a twisty road than, say, a Camry.
Once you get over the surprise that this lithe, civilized midsize car is a Kia, you're in for another: the price. Optimas start at $15,794, and the sticker of an SE with standard air-conditioning, six-speaker stereo, cruise control, remote locking, front and side air bags and power sunroof, along with optional leather seats and antilock brakes, is $22,300. Edmunds estimates the actual price at $20,600 -- about $2,600 less than a comparably equipped Saturn L300.
At a minimum, the Hyundai XG300 and Kia Optima SE prove that Korea can build competitive mid-market cars and sell them at supercompetitive prices. One has to wonder, though, whether they can make money doing it -- especially when the cost of the warranties is factored in. But that's Hyundai Motor's problem, not yours.
From the consumer's perspective, the risks of buying one of these new Korean models are threefold.
First, Kia and Hyundai have yet to prove that their cars are as reliable and durable as the ones rolling off the assembly lines of Detroit's Big Three, let alone those of Honda, Nissan and Toyota. It is great to be protected by a long warranty, but nobody wins when you have to invoke it.
Second, in light of the general skepticism about Korean cars, there is every reason to believe that the Optima and XG300 will depreciate faster than their gold-standard counterparts from Japan. So the real cost of a lease or a short trade-in cycle may be greater than the sticker price suggests.
The third risk is that your in-laws will think you cannot afford something classy from Japan or Germany. But that may be an opportunity; after all, otherwise sensible people once stuck up their noses at cars with funny names like Honda and Toyota.
INSIDE TRACK: "Classy Korean car" is no longer an oxymoron.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The XG300 looks substantial, and its cabin is plush and well finished.; The Kia Optima shares parts with the Hyundai Sonata. Chart: "Where the Flagships of Kia and Hyndai Fit In" lists features and specifications for selected Cheverolet Malibuis, Kia Optima SE V-6, Nissan Altima GLE, Acura 3.2, Hyndai XG300 and Mitsubishi.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); SEDANS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); JURY TRIALS (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (65%); MERGERS (62%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (92%); HYUNDAI CORP (92%)

TICKER: HYUD (LSE) (92%); 005380 (KSE) (92%); 011760 (KSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS423830 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (92%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5051 METALS SERVICE CENTERS & OFFICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



624 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Persuading Consumers The Economy Is Still 'New'

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
THE "new economy" seems to have lasted for three years. From about 1997 until late 2000, economic pundits proclaimed that a new era had begun. Technology, they said, was making America's companies more productive, allowing the country to grow quickly without causing inflation.
 But when a slowdown occurred with almost no warning, and goods piled up in warehouses and stores, businesses cut spending and laid off workers. None of it seemed very new anymore. 
 During the last month, "new economy" has appeared in a sample of 10 large newspapers 27 percent less often than it did six months ago, a database search showed. That is true even though those same newspapers are publishing much more economic news today than they were last autumn. 
It would be a mistake, however, to consign "new economy" to lexicographical history. Last week brought clear evidence that the concept of a changed economy still had true believers: Alan Greenspan and his colleagues at the Federal Reserve, who lowered interest rates on Wednesday for the fourth time in about 100 days. 
In their announcement, the Fed's policy makers said the "impressive" productivity gains of recent years remained "largely intact" despite the slowdown. But businesses are now investing less in new equipment. Consumer spending, after holding up fairly well in January and February, has weakened, threatening to remove the final barrier to recession.
With its move, the Fed hoped to persuade people to be a little looser with their money. A few million beach vacations here and a few thousand new manufacturing plants there, and suddenly the economy would be growing at a healthy pace again.
The size of the task, however, should not be underestimated. The Fed is trying to effect a shift in attitude that has not been accomplished in the last 30 years. 
Go back to last summer, when Americans' optimism about the economy came close to a 50-year high, according to the University of Michigan. In the nine months since, Michigan's index of consumer confidence has fallen from 108.3 to 87.8, the lowest since 1993. 
Even as the good feelings have waned, consumers have been willing to spend at a fairly brisk pace, and analysts have said that the contrast cannot last long. "It is a remarkable gap," said Neal M. Soss, an economist at Credit Suisse First Boston.
But the only way for its outcome to be remarkable would be for the economy to avoid a recession. Since 1969, the index has dropped by at least one-sixth on seven other occasions. A recession followed, or was under way, every time. 
In each case, the pattern was similar, said Richard T. Curtin, Michigan's director of consumer surveys. As the media talked of economic weakness, people looked for evidence. They followed the news and talked to friends. But if they were shopping for a new car or house, they continued as if nothing had changed. "At the first whiff the economy may be weaker, people are not going to reverse all of their plans," Mr. Curtin said. 
INSTEAD, he said, people cut some marginal spending, say, for restaurant meals. If they hear about layoffs among their friends or cannot work as much overtime as they once did, they become more conservative. Those who have debt begin paying it off.
This is the chain of events that occurred in each of the past recessions. In the third quarter of 1979, for example, consumer spending rose 3.8 percent, even though the confidence index had dropped 25 percent below its late-1978 level. By 1980, spending was falling, and the downturn was under way.
Mr. Curtin says the current gap has received an unusual amount of attention because information circulates more widely now. When Michigan's index began to drop sharply late last year, television and newspapers paid far more attention than they had to previous declines. "It raised the expectations for an immediate drop in spending, and that didn't happen," he said.
Fed officials also say that information flow is different now and that the outcome will be, too. Mr. Greenspan has said that companies today can react to changes in business conditions faster than their predecessors did. As the economy slowed last year, they cut production sharply. Those reductions played a crucial role in consumers' new pessimism. 
This time, however, the cuts will not last for months. Corporate America took its medicine and, with lower interest rates encouraging spending, the economy can return to growth in the second half of 2001. If the plan works, the Fed will have defied recent history. In that case, one might even say there is a new economy.

GRAPHIC: ChartSince '69, confidence has declined sharply within a year several times, including these. April '90-Oct. '90: -31.9July '78-July '79: -26.7Feb. '73-Feb. '74: -24.5Feb. '69- Feb. '70: -20.5Aug. '81-March '82: -19.7July 2000 to present: -18.9 (Source: Univ. of Michigan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); NEW ECONOMY (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (70%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (66%); INTEREST RATES (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (51%); CS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



625 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 5; Style Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: MIRROR, MIRROR; 
Rhode Island Noir: A State's Dark, Gothic Heart

BYLINE:  By Penelope Green 

 BODY:
I SPENT the week before last in Rhode Island. For most of it, the sun shone, the birds sang, and the airwaves were full of Buddy. Cianci, that is -- the charismatic, criminally convicted, six-term mayor of Providence, who had been freshly hit with a 97-page federal indictment charging bribery and racketeering.
 Fragments of his appearance Tuesday on his pal Don Imus's radio show were replayed all week on the radio and on MSNBC, along with his public avowal of innocence: "Ninety-seven times zero is zero!" You could see photographs of Mayor Vincent A. Cianci Jr., self-proclaimed architect of his city's renaissance -- Money magazine named Providence the best place to live in the Northeast last year -- being arraigned without his famous toupee. 
 The indictment, the final act in the federal Operation Plunder Dome, took aim at characters with nicknames like Buckles and Cha Cha. In a prime example of Rhode Island weirdness, an assistant United States attorney admitted he had shown surveillance tapes taken by the F.B.I. to friends and family last summer. 
The hubbub drove home to me that Rhode Island's biggest tourist attraction is not so much its glittering coastline, but its seedy, gothic heart -- an element less accurately portrayed in Edith Wharton's high-brow novels than by the Farrelly brothers ("Dumb and Dumber") and Barbet Schroeder ("Reversal of Fortune").
"What's intriguing about Rhode Island is this undercurrent of petty crime, and what makes it delicious is that it's set against this incredible beauty," said Maria Flook, whose darkly comic novel "Open Water" (Pantheon, 1994) was a Rhode Island postcard, an opera of small cons and dashed hopes. The book was set in Newport, with its historic houses, "a polish or a bright corrosion on the famous coastline." 
What makes that corrosion glare so is Rhode Island's loveliness and very real tradition of thoughtful, enlightened leadership, as embodied in the Senate careers of Claiborne Pell and the late John Chafee. But the state's noirish side always manages to intrude.
M. Charles Bakst, who has covered Rhode Island politics for The Providence Journal since 1972, ticked off a few civic low points, the currants in his cake. "When I think back over the years, there are these landmarks in corruption," he said drily. "You had two Supreme Court justices forced to resign; you had Ed DiPrete, the former governor, who went to jail; and Brian Sarault, the mayor of Pawtucket, who also went to jail. Mayor Cianci's first regime, in the early 80's, was of course marred by corruption and fiscal chaos. I must say I've never lacked for copy."
A few years ago, Mr. Bakst led a "rogues' tour" of the state, as a prize in a charity benefit. "Let's see," he remembered, "we started at a Dumpster outside Walt's Roast Beef, where the former governor had tossed his sandwich wrapper, and a $10,000 bribe. Then, we went to Mercy Stadium, in Pawtucket, which was associated with a lot of corruption, and of course City Hall and the mayor's office there. We went to the state house, to the Bevilacqua hearing -- he was one of the two Supreme Court justices to bring shame on his office -- and so on. It was a lot of fun."
Wait, there's more. The stories about public fiascos unfold like the gross-out scenes in a Farrelly brothers movie -- the stuck zipper, the fish hook, the hair-gel-that-isn't -- each more repulsive than the last. As Chip Young, a satirist for The Providence Phoenix, a local alternative weekly, put it: "We have a wonderful visual history. Once again, The Providence Journal did everybody the service of publishing a photograph of Joseph Bevilacqua coming out of a motel zipping up his fly." Mr. Young -- half of the duo that produces "Phillipe and Jorge's Cool Cool World" -- added: "The political side here has more fodder than the Ponderosa. Every year, we thank the gods for Buddy because we're set for another year."
On a wind-blown, rainy Thursday, I drove up to Providence from my house in Newport. I had seen Mr. Cianci's beloved downtown in more flattering lights: the fruits of its $740 million facelift of recent years backlighted by the setting sun on a hot summer night; its artists' housing in the beautiful turn-of-the-century factory buildings; the landscaping on the banks of the Providence River, which separates the downtown from College Hill, home of Brown University and the Rhode Island School of Design.
I had also seen the bulbous faces of some of the 45 Mr. Potato Head sculptures that had sprouted around Rhode Island in the last year -- very Farrelly brothers, though actually germinated by the State Economic Development Council in homage to Hasbro, the toy's maker and the state's largest employer. You can buy the sculptures now on eBay: "Eric the Head! Six Feet Tall, One of a Kind Statue!" Their time on display was up last week. "Later, Taters," The Providence Journal mourned.
"One of the things about Rhode Island is, there isn't one single defining characteristic," said Mark Van Noppen, an owner of the Armory Revival Company, one of a growing number of developers active in revitalizing Providence's neighborhoods. Trained at Brown as an anthropologist, Mr. Van Noppen has lived in Providence since 1977.
"It's this wonderful mix of that dark core and this really enlightened vision for the world," he said, adding: "Buddy embodies these two elements. His style is gangsterish, humorous, personal. He makes no bones about strong-arming people. Yet, his vision for the city has been inspired, high-flown. That's a kind of greatness."
In a state 48 miles long from north to south and 37 miles wide from east to west, "you can be in Newport and throw a rock and hit someone's cousin in Providence," said Jim Gillis, a columnist at The Newport Daily News since 1986. "Are we any worse than other states? I wonder. We think we have the market on corruption and general mayhem, but I think it's our size that makes things seem more distinct."
I think he's right. You distill something down to its essence and things grow sharper, more piquant. You see the extremes, the yin and the yang: Lincoln Chafee, who was elected to his father's Senate seat last year, at one end; Buddy Cianci at the other.
Darrell West, a political science professor at Brown, who has been conducting opinion polls in Providence for 17 years, said the mayor's job approval rating was 61 percent last month. "That's a number most politicians would kill for, and it comes two years into an investigation of his administration," Mr. West said. "There's no question that Buddy has created a cult of personality surrounding himself. He is the city, the city is him. That's a rationale last used by Louis XIV."
Yet, a high job approval rating doesn't always mean personal popularity. One night last week, at the East Side Market back in Newport, I searched in vain for the Mayor's Own Marinara Sauce, "benefiting Providence schoolchildren," according to the label. I finally flagged down a manager, who went away and came back with two jars, their labels enlivened by a photograph of the mayor's smiling face squinting into the sun, or a too-bright flash. "We took the sauce off the shelves a few weeks ago," the manager told me. "It wasn't selling so well." 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 29, 2001

 CORRECTION:
The Mirror, Mirror column last Sunday, contrasting Rhode Island's scenic beauty with its sometimes colorful corruption scandals, referred incorrectly to an investigation in Providence in which characters nicknamed Buckles and Cha Cha figured. They were targets of an investigation in the 1980's, not in Operation Plunder Dome, the federal investigation that led on April 2 to the indictment of Mayor Vincent A. Cianci Jr. on racketeering charges.
The article also misidentified a stadium in Pawtucket that was a stop on a "rogue's tour" of corruption sites led by a reporter for The Providence Journal as a prize in a charity benefit. It was McCoy Stadium, not Mercy Stadium. In addition, the article referred incorrectly to a second tour stop at the Providence state house, site of hearings into misdeeds by Joseph Bevilacqua, a Supreme Court justice. The tour visited the room where the hearings had been held years earlier, not the hearings themselves.

GRAPHIC: Photo: SPECIAL SAUCE -- Mayor Buddy Cianci, credited with transforming Providence, has been indicted. (Tony Cenicola/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); MAYORS (77%); BRIBERY (76%); MISDEMEANORS (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); CITY LIFE (69%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (66%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (65%); POLITICS (65%); ETHICS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (50%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (50%) GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ETHICS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

PERSON: GREEN, PENELOPE; CIANCI, VINCENT JR (MAYOR); FLOOK, MARIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (94%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (79%); PAWTUCKET, RI, USA (73%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) RHODE ISLAND; PROVIDENCE (RI)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



626 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: BENDING ELBOW; 
An Undergraduate Den of Karaoke, Not Kerouac

BYLINE:  DANIEL J. WAKIN 

 BODY:
Diana Trilling called the West End bar, on Broadway opposite Columbia University, a "dim waystation of undergraduate debauchery." 
 There's not much debauchery tonight. Several B-school grandees, snaggles of undergrads and a few locals people the large U-shaped bar. 
 A gong hangs over the bottles in the middle of the bar. Imax, the night bartender, says it sounds to commemorate lousy karaoke acts, big tips, moments of maximum hilarity.
This is definitely a college bar, where Gown slides by Town, the two rarely colliding. But it is a college bar with history. Jack Kerouac wrote novels here, Allen Ginsberg read poetry here. It once was a major uptown jazz outpost.
Potential debauchery enters in the form of three women in black leather, one in a front-laced leather corset. "God bless you, sweetie," Anthony, a local, tells Ms. Corset.
Ms. Corset is Courtney. Her friends are Colleen and Cresta. They are Columbia students, members of Alpha Delta Phi fraternity/sorority, and they are celebrating victory in a Greek Week lip-synch contest. They performed Madonna's "Human Nature," hence the outfits. They say there really isn't much interaction with the locals for "socio-economic" reasons. 
Anthony (Johnny rocks) and Juan (rum and coke) are regulars too, but they grew up around here. "I used to come when they had the comedies," says Juan, referring to the 80's, when the West End featured stand-up. "I used to ride my bike through Columbia, go to toga parties." Ever think of attending? "No. After high school -- that's all."
The West End dispenses its own wisdom. Jay, the day bartender, has put this thought on a chalkboard: "Age is in the mind. Unfortunately, it creeps down into the rest of the body."
Does Imax have any pithy thoughts?
"The key to success is sincerity," he shoots back. "Once you learn to fake that, you're good to go." It is sound barkeep wisdom. 
He talks about his eight years of serving students from a population 75 percent below the drinking age. "I'm a father figure for them," says Imax, who looks a little young for that. "They asked me to sign their yearbook last year. I almost cried."
The West End is mostly the same crossroads as always. But one glory is gone: the regular jazz evenings, featuring old-time greats in the 1970's and 80's like Earl Warren (alto man, not the justice), Eddie Durham, Jimmy Butts (The Face on the Bass), Jo Jones. Buck Clayton, Roy Eldridge and Max Roach could be found in the audience.
Jeff, a junior majoring in political science, knows nothing of this. "I love jazz," he said. "But I don't know stuff from the 70's." DANIEL J. WAKIN

GRAPHIC: Photo: The West End, Broadway and 114th Street (Gary Dunkin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT FRATERNITIES & SORORITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); MEN (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); POETRY (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (50%) BARS 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (93%); ALPHA DELTA PHI (56%) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY; WEST END (NYC BAR) 

PERSON: WAKIN, DANIEL J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



627 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/Joel C. Tillinghast; 
Fidelity Low-Priced Stock Fund

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
SELLING zucchini door to door is not a common path to Wall Street wizardry, but it worked for Joel C. Tillinghast. 
 At the age of 9, Mr. Tillinghast, now manager of the Fidelity Low-Priced Stock fund, was an unusual child. Some boys like G.I. Joes; some like firetrucks. But he liked numerically dense investment tomes. "I really like numbers and statistics," he said. "My parents had a copy of the Value Line Investment Survey that they kept and I just loved it." 
 The young Joel, thus empowered, felt a need to get in the game. To raise cash, he helped harvest zucchini in the family garden in Durham, N.H., and peddled it in the neighborhood.
With the proceeds, he bought two stocks in a custodial account set up by his parents: Central Maine Power, a utility, and Beckman Instruments, which made scientific instruments used by Mr. Tillinghast's father, a biology professor. Mr. Tillinghast never sold either stock.
He chalks up Central Maine Power as a disappointment: "I made no money over 31 years, except for the dividends," he said. But Beckman turned into a lucrative takeover play, acquired by SmithKline Beecham, which itself merged with Glaxo Wellcome, forming Glaxo-SmithKline. 
The lesson, he said, is to be a value manager who seeks companies that are not just cheap, but also have potential for growth. 
Mr. Tillinghast, now 42, designed the Low-Priced Stock fund, which is highly unusual in the investment industry. The fund, up 26.8 percent over the last year through Thursday, began in 1989 by investing in stocks priced at $15 or less, but it has since raised that ceiling to $35. Why such a seemingly arbitrary figure, given that a $70 stock one day can split two for one and be $35 the next? Wouldn't a fixed valuation measure, say a P/E ratio, be a better guide?
"Any fixed valuation is arbitrary," responded Mr. Tillinghast, adding that a price-to-earnings criterion would be "just a proxy for neglect." Using P/E ratios, he added, means forgoing companies that might be only temporarily unprofitable.
"Stocks like Cisco, Lucent and Motorola are down sharply," he said. "Some of them, especially after you write off $2.5 billion, don't have earnings," he added, referring to the grim announcement by Cisco Systems last week. 
The Low-Priced fund is categorized as a small-company value fund, which traditionally means that it sticks to stocks with market capitalizations of less than $2 billion and uses a bargain-hunting style. But Mr. Tillinghast's style is a challenge to categorize. He buys mostly small-cap stocks but also those of any size, if their prices are no more than $35 a share. The $7.8 billion fund now holds 727 stocks, a number made possible, he said, by the support of Fidelity's five analysts who concentrate on small-cap stocks and 200 analysts of specific industries.
Mr. Tillinghast considers Peter Lynch, former manager of Fidelity Magellan, as his chief influence. "It's a growth-at-a-reasonable-price approach," he said of the style that Mr. Lynch made famous. "I look for companies that are leaders in a niche. They stick to their niche instead of deciding that, say, apparel shops are boring and buying a savings and loan in Hawaii. Di-worse-ification, as Peter Lynch called it."
AFTER graduating in 1980 from Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., Mr. Tillinghast worked briefly for the company responsible for his favorite childhood reading, Value Line. In 1986, he went to Fidelity, where he is known for his cerebral personality in a profession more characterized by alpha males. 
Recently, he has been moving counter to the current Magellan manager, Robert Stansky. Magellan's weighting in technology stocks was slashed in the first quarter, as were the weightings of many big growth funds that rode technology stocks in the bull market. But Mr. Tillinghast and other value fund managers who looked tame in 1999 are now buying battered technology issues, though not dot-coms.
"I keep looking to tech stocks that are either producing growing earnings, or ones that are stupid cheap," he said. "It's still hard to find lots of either, but I'm still finding more in both categories." 
Two stocks he has bought in the last six months are CDW Computer Centers and Insight Enterprises, both of which sell computers to small businesses and home-office users, a market that appeals to him. 
"Bigger businesses expect much skinnier markups," he said. CDW has gained 53.3 percent this year, while Insight is up 25.7 percent.
A recent favorite group is restaurants. He added Applebee's International and Outback Steakhouse to his top 10 holdings in the first quarter.
Of late, he has been on a hot streak in a chilly market, something he has done before. "Climbing out of the '90 recession, he was tremendous," said James Lowell, editor of Fidelity Investor, an independent newsletter that tracks Fidelity funds. "This is a perfectly pitched fund for this time."
Indeed, Low-Priced Stock performed well in the early 90's, but lagged far behind big growth funds in the latter part of the decade. Growth-enamored investors withdrew billions of dollars, as they did from other value portfolios, prompting the fund, which had closed to new investors several times during the decade, to again re-open its doors. Now, the tide has turned toward value again. 
"The fund has gotten inflows, which is a change from a year ago, when the fund lost half of its assets to redemptions," said Mr. Tillinghast, calling it "extremely frustrating" to operate under such pressure.
Now that money is coming back in, will Fidelity decide to close the fund again for lack of attractive investment outlets? "We don't have any plans to do it now," he said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: In the Fidelity Low-Priced Stock fund, Joel C. Tillinghast looks for stocks that trade for $35 or less. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times) Chart: "Fidelity Low-Priced Stock Fund" Category: Small-cap valueNet assets: $7.8 billionInception: December 1989Manager: Joel C. Tillinghast since inceptionMinimum purchase: $2,500 ($500 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 47% 3-year annualized return through Thursday: 6.57%Category average: 1.45% Sector Breakdown Consumer discretionary: 24%Other: 30%Financials: 16%Industrials: 11%Information technology: 10%Health care: 9% Fees Front-end load*: 3.00%Deferred load: None12b-1 fee: NoneExpense ratio: 0.98% *Waived for retirement accounts(Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); TAKEOVERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (92%); BECKMAN COULTER INC (83%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (55%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (52%)

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (55%); GSK (LSE) (55%); BIOC (EGX) (55%); MSI (NYSE) (52%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (83%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (83%); SIC3821 LABORATORY APPARATUS & FURNITURE (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (71%); MAINE, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



628 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
Why the World Is Better For Jesse Helms

BYLINE:  By WALTER RUSSELL MEAD; Walter Russell Mead, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, is the author of "Mortal Splendor: The American Empire in Transition."

 BODY:
LAST week's joint meeting of the foreign policy committees of the American and Mexican senates served as a reminder of the unique position that Senator Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina, holds in American foreign policy today. Cranky, unilateralist, unwilling to yield American sovereignty for the sake of international cooperation, quick to impose economic sanctions, a defender of traditional Southern values, pro-gun, pro-death penalty and anti-abortion, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairman is the man American internationalists love to hate.
 Presidents and secretaries of state court the powerful Senator Helms the way Harry S. Truman and Dean Acheson courted Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg in the 1940's -- or curse his name the way Lyndon B. Johnson and his secretary of state, Dean Rusk, cursed Senator J. William Fulbright during the Vietnam War. Liberal internationalists hate Senator Helms for his resourceful opposition to the Kyoto Protocol, the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, the international criminal court and the international land mine treaty. Business internationalists hate him because of his support for unilateral American economic sanctions against Cuba and Iran, and skepticism about China. 
 But while hating Jesse Helms remains a parlor sport in Georgetown, Cambridge and Manhattan, a longer view of American history would demonstrate that Jesse Helms is a necessary part of the process: If he didn't exist, America would have to invent him.
"You have to have both yin and yang in American foreign policy, and Jesse Helms provides the yang," said Douglas Brinkley, a professor of history and the director of the Eisenhower Center at the University of New Orleans. "He respects his hard-line constituency but is willing to explore centrist possibilities. This is what makes him so important to the foreign-policy process."
Senator Helms plays two roles in American foreign policy -- both profoundly unpopular and even detestable from the standpoint of most of the foreign-policy establishment, but critical to the success of American foreign policy.
First, as chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, Mr. Helms upholds the power and prerogatives of the legislative branch in the foreign-policy process. Most foreign-policy professionals consider Congress, at best, a necessary evil in foreign policy, but the founding fathers thought otherwise and gave the Senate power to confirm ambassadors and ratify treaties.
These powers have frustrated presidents since George Washington worked to get the Jay Treaty with Britain through the Senate in 1794. A resentful Senate tried to humble President Andrew Jackson by refusing to confirm Martin Van Buren as minister to Britain in 1832. When the Senate amended the first Hay-Pauncefote agreement with Britain over the Panama Canal in 1900 so drastically that Britain rejected the revised treaty, John Hay had to sit down with Lord Pauncefote for a second round of talks to produce a second treaty.
While political scientists and foreign-policy practitioners often criticize the constitutional division of power between the executive and legislative branches for causing excessive confusion, American foreign policy benefits from checks and balances. Think of Senator Fulbright's criticism of the Vietnam War. Think of the role congressional investigations played during the Iran-contra scandal. Presidents can confuse personal political advantage with the national interest; congressional oversight -- even congressional obstruction -- helps keep American foreign policy on an even keel. 
THERE is another role Mr. Helms plays that infuriates internationalists but also strengthens the country's ability to conduct an active international policy: He is the key populist, conservative skeptic of the foreign-policy establishment's pet schemes for international cooperation and intervention.
Liberal internationalists would seemingly like to forget that suspicion of the foreign-policy establishment -- the pundits, fellows at policy institutes and corporate lawyers -- is a powerful force in the American heartland. For the elite is usually convinced it knows better than mass public opinion what foreign policy should be. Occasionally, it is even proved right.
But American public opinion will not take foreign policy on faith. It therefore falls to Senator Helms to infuriate well-meaning internationalists by subjecting the Kyoto Protocol or the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty or other key projects of liberal internationalists to acid skepticism. In doing this, Senator Helms not only speaks for the tens of millions of Americans who don't trust the foreign-policy establishment; he also opens the door to a true national consensus behind important foreign-policy goals.
THIS role of broker between a skeptical public opinion and an insistent internationalist elite is one of the most important in American foreign policy. This is the role Senator Vandenberg played in the 1940's. As James Chace, the author of "Acheson: The Secretary of State Who Created the American World," explained, "Having a Republican chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee with strong former isolationist credentials was indispensable to winning support for the Truman Doctrine and, above all, for the Marshall Plan."
Henry Cabot Lodge's reservations to Woodrow Wilson's draft Treaty of Versailles were also partly an attempt to win wider support for a controversial international initiative. Unfortunately, Wilson did not understand the game as well as Truman and Acheson; had Wilson compromised with Lodge's reservations, the Versailles Treaty would have been ratified and the United States would have joined the League of Nations.
When Senator Helms addressed the United Nations Security Council last year, he quoted Lodge. Like Lodge, Mr. Helms seems skeptical about international organizations but not flat-out opposed; the compromise in which he agreed to support the payment of America's back dues to the United Nations in exchange for reforms and a reduction in Washington's contribution was a classic example of a brokered compromise between internationalists and skeptics.
He played a broker's role again last week when he took the Foreign Relations Committee to Mexico, showing that Senate conservatives are open to a deeper relationship with a more democratic Mexico.
Professor Brinkley, who followed the debate on the United Nations, said Mr. Helms's flexibility is real, though limited. "You can't sway Helms ideologically," he said, "but you can work out a pragmatic agenda if you can meet his basic concerns." 
The politics of American foreign policy has been divided on regional and cultural lines at least since the South and the West forced the War of 1812 on a sullen New England. The Senate and the White House have been squabbling over foreign policy since George Washington, stung by sharp Senate questioning over a proposed Indian treaty, decided he would never return to seek its advice and consent in person.
Some hope and others fear that Mr. Helms, now 79, will decide against running for re-election in 2002. Either Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana, or Joseph R. Biden Jr., Democrat of Delaware, would be favored to succeed him as chairman, depending on which party controls the Senate. Either could make a less prickly partner for the second half of the Bush administration.
Yet the ideological, cultural and institutional interests that Mr. Helms represents are not going away, and in his absence, the administration could find itself regretting the loss of a visible conservative foreign-policy leader with the credibility and clout to deliver a solid foreign-policy consensus on the right.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Jesse Helms fielded questions in Mexico City. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HISTORY (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (76%); LANDMINES (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); ABORTION (56%); VIETNAM WAR (53%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (56%) SENATE COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS 

PERSON: MEAD, WALTER RUSSELL; HELMS, JESSE (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (78%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PANAMA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



629 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
What It Takes to Stop Slavery

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

 BODY:
FIRST, there were reports of a ship off the coast of Benin carrying more than 200 children into slavery in West Africa. When the ship docked, however, only a few dozen were on board. There was speculation that the captain had abandoned the others on some coastal outcrop, or even thrown them overboard. 
 No clear answers about what happened on the ship may ever be known. But the case, and the international attention it drew, threw light on a troubling phenomenon: the modern slave trade. 
 The current definition of a slave, according to Beth Herzfeld of the London watchdog group Anti-Slavery International, is someone "forced to work under physical or mental threat, and where the owner or employer controls the person completely -- where a person is bought or sold." It includes, she said, restrictions on freedom of movement, no pay or very little and no say over hours, holidays or rest. 
By that measure, 27 million people or more are enslaved today, said Kevin Bales, the author of "Disposable People: New Slavery in the Global Economy" and an adviser to the United Nations on forced labor. In contrast, the trans-Atlantic slave trade is estimated at about 15 million people over 150 years.
In West Africa, experts say as many as tens of thousands of children are transported from country to country to fill a demand for cheap labor. Around the world, the International Labor Organization says, 250 million children who should be in school are at work instead, many in conditions of slavery in mines, factories and plantations. With another 500 million young people expected to enter the labor market in coming decades -- most from the poorest parts of the developing world -- children will only be more vulnerable.
Mr. Bales and other experts say that unlike those in the 18th and 19th centuries, today's peddlers of servitude seek out not the strong but the weak: women and children. Whether providing labor for the sex trade or the carpet industry, "You want people you can capture easily and conceal easily," Mr. Bales said. "Child slaves are very, very cheap, and they are disposable." 
Benin's mystery ship, brought to world attention by officials there, raises important questions. What moves societies to take action against a social or political evil, an industrial danger or even the potential for natural catastrophe? 
Sometimes a single event becomes the catalyst for transforming movements. In 1911, a fire at the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory in Manhattan killed 146 workers, most of them women trapped in a locked, 10th-floor sweatshop. Those who jumped to escape the flames died on the sidewalk below. Frances Perkins, who became secretary of labor under President Franklin D. Roosevelt, called it "the torch that lit up the whole industrial scene." Decades of labor legislation and reforms followed.
MORE than half a century later, a chemical company's toxic contamination of the Love Canal neighborhood of Niagara Falls led to Congressional enactment of the Superfund law. Last year, after concluding that the international sex trade in women and girls included the trafficking of up to 100,000 women into the United States each year, the Clinton administration and Congress worked together to pass the Trafficking and Violence Victims Protection Act.
So-called tipping points are not confined to industry. The recent deaths of 43 South Africans in a soccer-match stampede opened debate there on the safe handling of crowds at sports events. Similar stampedes have changed laws and practices in Europe and Latin America. The most recent earthquake in India, which left nearly 2,000 confirmed dead, prompted calls for an effective crackdown on the flouting of building codes.
Sadly, calamities do not always cause change. Overloaded ferries sink with miserable regularity in a dozen poor countries, sometimes killing hundreds. Shoddy houses, schools and hospitals are still built along known fault lines. A fire not unlike the Triangle Shirtwaist killed 52 last year in Bangladesh, where women sew for less than $50 a month. It was only one of the country's many fatal fires. 
What makes the difference between a Triangle Shirtwaist fire and a Bangladeshi sweatshop fire? Officials at international agencies, who in an age of globalization now deal with borderless problems, say critical factors include governmental will, callousness or corruption among local or national officials and the strength of nongovernmental organizations pressing for change (as well as the inability of monied lobbies to prevent it). 
Sometimes a single person can make a difference. The late Diana, princess of Wales, focused world attention on the human devastation caused by land mines. The internationally known Senegalese musician Youssou N'Dour gives concerts around the world to campaign against child labor. In Thailand, a popular former government minister, Mechai Viravaidya, did more than anyone to help cut both rapid population growth and AIDS infections with clever public campaigns to promote condom use.
"YOU have to move forward in a parallel manner on different fronts, and then one of them sometimes produces the breakthrough," said Juan Somavia, director general of the International Labor Organization in Geneva, which is beginning a campaign to eliminate the worst forms of child labor, with initial programs in El Salvador, Nepal, Tanzania and West Africa. Most important, he said, is awareness-raising and community involvement. Legislation, labor courts and labor inspections are other forces for change. So are the companies that use child labor themselves, said Mr. Somavia, a former Chilean diplomat. "A basic element for companies today is image," he said. "That's a leverage." 
Add to that market activism. "This has been done in the U.S. traditionally through shareholder resolutions," he said. "Today it is moving into fair trade initiatives and socially responsible investment funds." And a related concept is consumer choice: child labor in India's carpet industry is now monitored by Rugmark, an organization in Washington supported by Unicef. 
"Local N.G.O.'s are key," Mr. Somavia said. "International N.G.O.'s bring attention to the issue because they have access to global media. But local N.G.O.'s make it happen."
Opposition to child slavery may be reaching a turning point. From the grass roots up in Benin, Mali and the Ivory Coast, determination to halt the trade has been rising. 
"Benin is a good example of a country that has made good progress," said Alfred Ironside, a Unicef spokesman. "They have developed a system of community watches. The watchdog system has helped to prevent the abduction or spiriting away of some 3,000 children in the last three years. It may sound like a small number, but that's 3,000 kids who didn't end up in something like bonded labor."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Slaves in Sudan, the focus of a recent visit by the Rev. Al Sharpton. (Associated Press); This Indian child earns about 86 cents for every 1,000 bricks she carries. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLAVERY (96%); CHILDREN (89%); CHILD LABOR (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); SWEATSHOPS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); GARMENT WORKERS (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); FACTORY FIRES (69%); NATURAL DISASTERS (66%); CARPET & RUG MILLS (64%); FLOORING (50%) SLAVE LABOR; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; WOMEN; SLAVERY 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: AL SHARPTON (59%) CROSSETTE, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (75%) AFRICA (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (93%); SUDAN (92%); UNITED STATES (75%) AFRICA; INDIA; SUDAN

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



630 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: The World: Fruits of Democracy; 
Guess Who's a Chinese Nationalist Now?

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

 BODY:
FOR Americans, the "bad guys" in China seem easily identifiable: they are the aging, grim-faced Communist hard-liners in Mao jackets, wagging their trembling fingers at the world. They squelch democratic opinion, detain American airplane crews and ferociously repress Tibet.
 But that conclusion is thoroughly misleading. Increasingly, the real hard-liners toward the West are simply ordinary people. 
 They wear blue jeans and T-shirts with risque English phrases. They trade gossip about how to get American visas. They read Danielle Steele novels and revere a man they call Qiao Dan, also known as Michael Jordan. But many also believe that the United States is a bully, that Beijing should stand up more firmly to Tokyo and Washington alike, that Tibetan monks should be tossed in jail if necessary and that any move by Taiwan toward independence should result in a Chinese military attack. 
"A more democratic China is not necessarily a less nationalistic China," said Xiao Qiang, the executive director of Human Rights in China, a New York-based group. "It could take a very hard line, too."
Indeed, if China had been a more democratic country, the recent stalemate over the American spy plane might have been much more difficult to resolve. As China has become more open in recent years, allowing citizens to tap out their thoughts in Internet chat rooms or even call them in to talk radio shows, public opinion has come to matter more. Ultimately, this may make China more complex, nationalistic and obdurate. Think of France, cubed.
The accompanying comments by university students give a taste of the feelings many young Chinese have toward the United States. There is fascination, respect and envy, but also perplexity about and resentment of those high-handed and inscrutable Americans.
This growing Chinese nationalism did not arise by accident. In the aftermath of the 1989 Tiananmen crackdown on the student democracy movement, Chinese leaders consciously cultivated nationalism as a new glue to unite the country. Communism was discredited, so President Jiang Zemin and others used the education system and the propaganda apparatus to nurture a prickly national pride and suspicion of the outside world. As He Xin, a commentator with close ties to hard-liners, said at the time: "The new unifying force in China is patriotism."
Wu Jiaxiang, a former senior official who was imprisoned after Tiananmen and now lives in Boston, puts it differently. "Chinese nationalism is something that the Communist Party started after Tiananmen," he said. "They use nationalism to replace Communism. They invented it. There was some in the 1980's, but it has become much stronger since the 1990's."
The upshot was that the government toned down its propaganda about the virtues of socialism -- which nobody believed anyway, since the children of the leaders were busy raking in money as capitalists -- and focused on warnings about the duplicitous and predatory West. Those warnings fell on fertile ground, partly because China has been pushed around, plundered and carved up by one country after another, ever since Britain went to war with China in 1839, in part to force it to buy opium.
SUCH predations created ferocious waves of nationalism. In 1899-1900 an ultra-nationalist group known as the Boxers rampaged against foreigners, declaring in one statement: "Foreign devils are not produced by mankind. If you do not believe it, look at them carefully. The eyes of all the foreign devils are bluish." Shouting, "Protect the country, destroy the foreigner," the Boxers slaughtered foreign missionaries, hacked off the breasts of their wives, and, of less concern in the West, killed a far greater number of Chinese Christians.
The ruling Qing dynasty, which was at the time disintegrating in a way that some find comparable to the travails of today's Communist dynasty, seized upon that nationalism to try to bolster its own legitimacy, without much success. The Communist Party has been rather more clever so far in nurturing nationalism since the 1990's, and in staying on top of the nationalist tiger.
Yu Renqiu, an expert on United States-China relations at the State University of New York in Purchase, recalls that when he came to the United States in 1980 he and his fellow Chinese students were not terribly nationalistic. But in the last half-dozen years, he said, Chinese students have become much more inclined to stand up for their country and vent outrage at the United States.
"I worry about it," Professor Yu said. "I worry that this popular nationalism may get out of control."
While misinformation in China's state-controlled media is often blamed for the nationalist response during incidents like the spy plane standoff, the reality is more complex. In 1999, for example, when the American bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade provoked outrage in China, many Chinese students in America were also furious, even though they were relying for their information on American television and newspapers. Likewise, the Hong Kong public has periodically been whipped into a nationalistic fervor over Japan's occupation of the disputed Senkaku islands.
Part of the reason seems to be that, where Americans see individual incidents, the Chinese see one more in a 200-year string of "guochi" -- a term familiar to all Chinese, meaning national humiliation. Americans see an air collision, or the jockeying among competing cities to get the Olympics; the Chinese see another insidious attempt by foreign powers to weaken China and hold it back.
This perspective has been encouraged not just by the Chinese government but also, paradoxically, by the advent of quasi-capitalism in the news media. Often the most jingoistic publications in China are not the official ones but those unsubsidized magazines and tabloids that must fight for readers any way they can, including peddling nationalism much as William Randolph Hearst did in America in the run-up to the Spanish-American War.
While some observers worry that the American and Chinese peoples -- and not just their governments -- may come to regard themselves as antagonists, they also note that China's growing market economy could, over time, have the opposite effect.
"Many Chinese are very practical," notes Xu Pei, a Chinese-language journalist in Washington. "They understand that they have to trade with the U.S. and that if relations with the U.S. were damaged, then their living standard would be damaged. They know that very clearly."
The Chinese leadership also has an incentive to keep the nationalism in check. President Jiang, who as much as anybody helped nurture today's mood, has lately been hurt by it, since his decision to return the American air crew is seen by many Chinese as evidence of weakness and a willingness to toady to America.
All in all, the government in China today often seems more afraid of the people than the other way around. The leaders know that protests by students, workers or even peasants could paralyze the country, and that either unrest or high levels of popular discontent could provoke a coup d'etat.
SO the authorities go to tremendous lengths -- through propaganda and through cash payments -- to appease unemployed workers and the army. All this makes nationalism a particularly interesting force in China, given its potential not just for conferring legitimacy on the government but also for taking it away.
"Nationalism is very dangerous for the Communist Party," said Mr. Wu, the former senior official. "Because after you've created it, it grows stronger and stronger on its own until it is difficult to control."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Shanghai, a headline reads: "The Unites States Acts Wildly in Asia." Many Chinese would agree. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); POLITICS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); ESPIONAGE (66%); CHAT ROOMS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION 

PERSON: WU JIAXIANG; KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (99%); TIBET (93%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



631 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 53 words

HEADLINE: Executive Pay and Priorities 

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 Your coverage of executive salaries left me angry and frustrated. How can Republicans continue to spin their tale of "tax break as economic stimulus" in light of the obvious truth that middle-class prosperity is not tied to the fortunes of the well-heeled?

MARK CASSELL
Cleveland Heights, Ohio, April 3

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (64%) OHIO, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



632 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1745 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Youths' Darkening View of U.S. 

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, April 21 

 BODY:
Zhou Jing's view of the United States as dangerous and domineering has hardened since American warplanes bombed China's embassy in Belgrade two years ago and an American spy plane more recently collided with a Chinese fighter jet off this country's southern coast.
 "The embassy bombing had a huge impact on me," said Mr. Zhou, 21, sitting in an American-style cafe across from Fudan University, where he is a student. Though he hopes to study in the United States someday and has no quibble with the American public, he said the bombing confirmed his view of the American government as unreasonable and arrogant. 
 "And there's no fundamental difference between that event and the spy plane incident," he added. 
Mr. Zhou's growing ambivalence toward the United States highlights a change in generational attitudes over the last 10 years. It has left those coming of age now with the most negative feelings about the United States of any generation since the 1970's.
Then China was emerging from the Cultural Revolution and began shedding its view of the United States as evil incarnate, a caricature that had its roots in the Korean War, when Chinese troops and American G.I.'s fought. And a decade ago Chinese youth looked up to America.
But since then, year by year, they have turned increasingly wary of the United States.
That is particularly true of those now in their early 20's, for whom the killing of demonstrators in Beijing on June 4, 1989, is a historical reference as remote as the Vietnam War was to the generation of Americans that came of age during the Reagan administration.
Those attitudes are worrying, not only because they are shared by a generation that will one day be responsible for managing Chinese-American relations but also because more immediate changes in Chinese society are giving them added weight.
"One of the major concerns to us should be what average people think about us, because public opinion is playing an increasingly important role in the country," said Kenneth Lieberthal, a China scholar and former Asian affairs expert on the National Security Council.
Mr. Zhou and his classmates at Fudan, one of the country's finest schools, tend to be more politically detached than their counterparts in Beijing and less emotional than elsewhere in the country. And they are relatively affluent. Shaggy-haired young men in blue jeans and untucked shirts roam along a strip of bookstores, coffee houses and bars adjoining the leafy campus each evening, like students in the United States.
The negative sentiments they expressed, tempered by privilege, tend to be even stronger among students at less cosmopolitan schools in the poorer provinces.
"When I was young, my impressions of America came from newspaper reports, which were mostly negative," said Zhu Yunxia, a friend of Mr. Zhou's wearing a Harvard T-shirt. He said events since then have not improved his view.
"America's foreign policy is based on domestic interests, rather than what's good for the whole world," he said, adding that the United States sees China as an adversary for reasons of its own. "With the Soviet Union gone, America's military needs an imagined enemy so that Congress will increase defense spending." 
Those attitudes may change as this new generation grows older, but prospects for a softening of their views have dimmed since the Bush administration cast China as a "strategic competitor" and indicated it would offer more assertive support for an autonomous Taiwan. Many young Chinese are suspicious of Mr. Bush's rhetorical step back from regarding China as the potential "strategic partner" seen by the Clinton administration.
The likelihood of future conflicts like the spy plane incident, in which a Chinese pilot died, suggests that Chinese suspicions will only deepen in still younger generations.
The most immediate irritant is the Pentagon's suggestion that, following the recent midair collision, President Bush might order American fighter jets to escort future United States surveillance aircraft flying off China's coast.
"Even without escorts, a resumption of the surveillance flights will upset people, but if fighter planes accompany future surveillance flights, it will be very difficult to control anti-American emotions," Mr. Zhou said.
"China shouldn't hesitate to use missiles if Bush sends fighter escorts," another student said.
China is changing so fast, a generation gap exists not only between young and old, but between Chinese entering and leaving their early 20's.
Huang Hongye, a 26-year-old event organizer waiting for his girlfriend at a Shanghai Starbucks, said recent events have done little to shake his enthusiasm, and that of his friends, for the economic superpower.
"It's natural that the Bush administration would try to make the United States look strong and that the Chinese government would try to save face," he said. Mr. Huang wears Lee jeans and tan Reebok boots, smokes State Express 555 British cigarettes and checks in with his girlfriend on a Siemens mobile phone. He reads e-mail messages on a Philips Nino palm-size computer, which, along with all of the computers at his office, is loaded with Microsoft software.
"We like the American style," Mr. Huang said. "We look at things less emotionally than the younger generation." Mr. Huang is just five years older than Mr. Zhou and his circle.
The current generation of college students grew up during a period of unprecedented economic growth that has been virtually devoid of political contention. Communications and the freedom of personal expression are largely unfettered.
And these youths have little knowledge of the turbulent Cultural Revolution, which is virtually ignored in Chinese schools and is rarely spoken of by older generations who are eager to forget the past and move on.
This is the first generation under the one-child policy to reach maturity, and many have enjoyed the devotion -- if not indulgence -- of parents with an only child.
Government-set limits are widely supported by today's young people as necessary to the country's continued development. Most support China's frequent use of the death penalty and many view curbs on freedom, such as the crackdown on the Falun Gong spiritual movement, as essential to maintaining social order.
"China's younger generation matured in the 1990's, a period when U.S. policy and U.S. rhetoric sought to change the way China is governed, in part by making strong accusations against the Chinese leadership on human rights and other issues," said Dr. Lieberthal, the China scholar. But those accusations ignored developments that gradually produced a growing middle class and greater freedoms of speech and mobility, he added, changes that are very real to most Chinese.
Chinese attitudes toward America are first set by mandatory "current affairs" classes that Chinese students attend from primary school through high school and even into college. The classes focus on salient news and act as a mechanism for communicating the Communist Party's interpretation of events, particularly for those of a political nature.
Pamphlets distributed by universities as part of that education program, for example, condemned the American-led bombing campaign in Kosovo. And Mr. Zhou recalls during high school studying criticism of the United States' threat of trade sanctions and charges of Western influence in blocking China's effort to serve as the host to the 2008 Summer Olympics.
China's state-run news media also manipulate public opinion. The Chinese press waited several days to report President Clinton's apology after American warplanes bombed the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade, and it has not reported the United States explanation of how the recent midair collision occurred.
Many young people here deride America as the "Pacific policeman." And the word "hegemony," a favorite in the Communist Party propaganda, is on everyone's lips. After the spy-plane incident, even young laborers on Hainan island were using the word, though few could explain what it meant.
Still, except for Beijing's territorial claims to Tibet and Taiwan or brief border disputes with Vietnam and India, the country throughout its recent history has been focused inward without expansionist aims.
"China has always adopted a moderate foreign policy and never been aggressive, either politically or economically," said Hong Danyi, a Fudan student from southern China. "We've never claimed to be a great power or pretended to be the guardian of the world."
Such sentiments do not spring from simple nationalism as it exists in the West, but are rooted in a much deeper cultural identity that transcends the Communist Party's 52 years in power. Part of China's frustration comes from America's failure to understand the depth of that feeling.
The United States and China have had a difficult relationship ever since American traders arrived on the country's coast in 1784. America piggybacked on concessions won by European colonial powers, and backed the losing side of the civil war that brought the Communists to power in 1949 and made America the country's prime enemy.
After President Richard Nixon set the stage for normalized relations, Chinese schools stopped teaching Russian in favor of English, and a love affair with America began. America's reputation among China's youth peaked during the pro-democracy protests of 1989, when many students regarded the United States as a model and champion.
But since the bloody suppression of those protests, a barrage of anti-American propaganda has set the tone for young people.
The breakup of the Soviet Union and Russia's subsequent economic decline have since been accepted as a cautionary tale by many young Chinese who support the government's brutal 1989 crackdown.
"When the Soviet Union was undergoing drastic changes, they took the American political system as their goal," Mr. Zhou said. "But compare China with what Russia looks like now."
Many young people still want to study, if not live, in the United States. But attitudes may sour further with America's decision, due this week, on what new weapons to sell to Taiwan.
More friction will come when President Chen Shui-bian of Taiwan stops by the United States in May on his way to Latin America, and when the Dalai Lama visits Washington several days later.
And in July, the Olympic committee will announce the winner of the competition to be the host of the 2008 Summer Olympics. If China does not win, America will be blamed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Zhou Jing, left, and Zhu Yunxia at Fudan University. Both express negative opinions of United States policy. (Ritz Sino/R. S. Photos, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY AIRCRAFT (92%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (78%); KOREAN WAR (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); ASIAN AMERICANS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); MEN (67%); ARMED FORCES (66%); VIETNAM WAR (66%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; FOREIGN SERVICE; PUBLIC OPINION 

PERSON: SMITH, CRAIG S; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); SERBIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



633 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: In Hong Kong, Scholars Keep Safe Distance From Trouble 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, April 21 

 BODY:
It has been a tense spring for scholars who study China from this former colony on its doorstep.
 Beijing's recent detention of several Chinese academics -- two of whom are residents of Hong Kong -- has led a growing number of scholars here to cancel trips to mainland China. They say the secrecy surrounding the detentions has made them nervous that they could be swept up in the same net. 
 "It is not wise to go now because we don't know what's permissible and what's not," said X. L. Ding, an expert in the Chinese economy and legal system at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. "People got into trouble before, but the reasons were quite clear. Now it's not clear at all." 
Professor Ding, a Chinese national with a Ph.D. from Harvard, usually makes about five trips a year to China to study economic reform and the rule of law, relying on field work and access to statistics from official sources.
But Professor Ding said he had put his travel plans on hold, as have several other China experts at Hong Kong's major universities.
He and other academics said they believed that the crackdown was motivated, in part, by the publication in January of the "The Tiananmen Papers," an insider's account of the deliberations of the Chinese leaders that led to the crackdown on the democracy movement in Beijing in June 1989. That edition came out in English.
The first Chinese-language edition of the book, which is based on the same supposed government transcripts, was published in Hong Kong on April 15. The first print run of the book, retitled "June Fourth: The True Story," sold out in bookstores and on street corners in two days.
"The Chinese seem to be singling out a few people in the wake of the book to stop this leakage of information," said Lau Siu-kai, a professor of sociology at the Chinese University of Hong Kong.
Xu Zerong, the first Hong Kong resident to be detained, disappeared on a trip to neighboring Guangdong Province last August, five months before the English publication of the book. But his detention came to light only last month, and the pace of detentions has quickened since then.
Li Shaomin, an American citizen who teaches business at the City University of Hong Kong, was detained Feb. 25 by security agents while visiting a friend in China, his wife said. China has not confirmed the report.
Chinese authorities also arrested Gao Zhan, a researcher at American University in Washington, charging her with espionage. On Friday, Beijing confirmed that it had detained a Chinese-American author, Wu Jianmin. A human rights group here said he was suspected of helping leak the Tiananmen papers.
The detentions are casting a pall over Hong Kong's universities, which have become a popular base in the last decade for scholars to study China. The former British colony offers a hard-to-beat combination of high salaries, proximity to the mainland and relative academic freedom.
But Hong Kong's more open system unnerves the Chinese. They worry that the city could be used as a staging ground for subversive activities, fears that are fanned by the brisk sales of the Tiananmen book.
Three pro-Beijing bookstores here refused to carry the book. But other stores sold out the first 10,000 copies before they were even on the shelves. A second printing will go on sale by the end of the month.
Pro-democracy groups have seized on the book to rekindle interest in the Tiananmen Square crackdown. The Hong Kong Alliance in Support of the Patriotic Democratic Movement in China set up a stall in the Causeway Bay shopping district, where it sold 100 copies in less than two hours. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); ESPIONAGE (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); WRITERS (69%); BOOKSTORES (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (64%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (63%); RIOTS (60%) FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) CHINA; HONG KONG; TIANANMEN SQUARE (BEIJING); BEIJING (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



634 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: In the Streets, Fervor, Fears and a Gamut of Issues 

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: QUEBEC, April 21 

 BODY:
For a second day, the old streets of this historic city were mobbed today with people protesting the proceedings of the third Summit of the Americas. The biggest crowd -- a good mile long and a boulevard wide -- marched for hours without incident or trouble yet with evident concern for the panoply of issues that angered, frightened or frustrated them enough to come here. 
 But on the other side of Quebec, police officers used a water cannon, rubber bullets and a continual shower of tear gas to repeatedly push back the front ranks of more than 6,000 protesters at a few key points not far from the meeting site. One of the most prolonged confrontations took place at a weak point in the concrete and chain-link fence around the official summit meeting area that had been breached briefly during protests on Friday afternoon. 
 A police spokesman said the incident began when a few of the protesters threw tear gas canisters at police guarding the fence, but protesters said police fired first. The police pushed the crowds back with water and gas. Then dozens of officers in riot gear advanced, pulling individual protesters out of the group or confiscating the gas masks that allowed them to toss the billowing tear gas canisters back.
The police arrested another 50 people this afternoon, bringing to 150 the number detained this week. One of those arrested, Jaggi Singh, was identified as a leader of the organized protest group the Anti-Capitalist Convergence. Thirty-four police officers have received minor injuries while 45 protesters were hurt. 
But not all the protests were marked by such clashes. Under a brilliant blue sky and some of the first truly springlike temperatures this winter-bound city has seen this year, a vast sea of people from across the Americas -- estimated by the police at more than 20,000 -- set out from the city's riverfront to send a message to the 33 leaders at the meeting. With signs and huge puppets, flags and electronic bullhorns, they criticized the most extreme effects of free trade and the trend toward globalization. 
Some people focused on complex issues in sophisticated ways. "Mexico has already lived with free trade for 35 years through the maquiladoras," said Bob Jeffcott of Toronto, a member of the Maquila Solidarity Network. He said maquilas, the tariff-free assembly plants that have operated along the United States-Mexico border since the 1960's, have created "a democracy-free zone" in Mexico in which the rights of workers to belong to independent unions has been abrogated. 
Some workers belong to unions that are not considered independent because they are linked to the government. "A Free Trade Area of the Americas would extend similar practices to the rest of the hemisphere," Mr. Jeffcott said.
He worried that the widely televised images of the altercations between the police and the protesters on Friday were overshadowing the message of environmentalists, labor rights advocates and others who came to Quebec but did not tangle with the police. "It would be a mistake to extrapolate from those acts of violence and think that they exemplified all of what is happening here," Mr. Jeffcott said. 
Still, the local French-language television network switched repeatedly during the day from scenes of the water cannon pushing over masked protesters on Rene Levesque Boulevard, two blocks from the summit meeting place, to the lively crowds swarming down Boulevard Charest more than a mile away.
Among those at the march was Pedro Vasquez, 30, a Colombian student who fled his country after receiving threats on his life. He was protesting the $1.3 billion in American support for the Colombian government's fight against a long-standing guerrilla uprising and drug trafficking, an initiative called Plan Colombia.
"The money is not helping Colombians because 70 percent of it is going to buy military equipment and the violence is just continuing," Mr. Vasquez said. "To us, Plan Colombia is really Plan Anti-Colombia." 
While many demonstrators expressed concerns about big issues involving faraway countries, a number of people were worried about how free trade on such a vast scale would change the way they live here in North America.
Daniel Baker, a 39-year-old organic soybean grower, had come from Starksboro, Vt., this morning because he was afraid that the intellectual property rights protections that could be included in a hemispheric free trade agreement would benefit the big chemical companies involved in genetic engineering of agricultural products at the expense of small farmers. 
"With a good legal team, the big companies can take a product that has been developed by local farmers for thousands of years -- like basmati rice -- and get an international patent that gives them legal claim to all the profits from that product," Mr. Baker said. 
And Sarah Charette, 20, a student at Carleton University in Ottawa, came to protest the way trade agreements have eroded Canada's national sovereignty by giving corporations the power to challenge government subsidies to entities -- like Canada Post, the country's postal system -- that challenge private enterprises. "I don't like the idea that a company can sue a government for doing something that helps people," she said. "There's got to be some balance between corporate rights and the public good."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters resisted being pushed back by a police water cannon yesterday during the Quebec summit meeting. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); RIOTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (85%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (84%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); ARRESTS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (59%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; SUMMIT OF THE AMERICAS; FREE TRADE AGREEMENT OF THE AMERICAS 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: ONTARIO, CANADA (57%) MEXICO (93%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (57%) QUEBEC CITY (QUEBEC)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



635 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2450 words

HEADLINE: Torricelli Pressed Hard to Help Big Donor Pursue Korean Deal 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI; This article was reported by David Kocieniewski, Tim Golden and Don Kirk and was written by Mr. Kocieniewski.

 BODY:
When David Chang, a New Jersey businessman, set out to buy one of South Korea's largest insurance companies in 1998, he had no experience in insurance and nowhere near the $1.5 billion being sought for the company. But he did have a friend with some influence in South Korea, Senator Robert G. Torricelli.
 Mr. Torricelli, the New Jersey Democrat, has insisted that he did no more for Mr. Chang than he would have done for any constituent. One of his aides wrote a letter of introduction for Mr. Chang's company; it was so perfunctory, Mr. Torricelli's office said, that the senator didn't even bother to review it. "Senator Torricelli has never discussed Mr. Chang's business matters with any Korean government officials," the office said in a statement last fall. 
 But a detailed examination of the insurance deal by The New York Times shows that Mr. Torricelli in fact played a busy, behind-the-scenes role in support of Mr. Chang's bid for the insurer -- writing letters to Korean leaders, meeting with senior officials in Korea and recommending Mr. Chang, one of his most generous supporters, and his New Jersey company, Panacom Inc., in glowing terms. 
"I present them to you with my strongest possible recommendation," he wrote in a September 1998 letter to South Korea's president, Kim Dae Jung, according to a copy of the letter reviewed by The Times.
Mr. Torricelli also ruffled more than a few feathers along the way. After he took Mr. Chang along to a July 7, 1999, briefing on economic issues with South Korea's finance minister and used the occasion to lobby for Panacom, American diplomats in Seoul were so concerned that the United States ambassador later apologized to the minister, one former official said.
What help Mr. Torricelli gave to Mr. Chang, 57, has become a critical question as a wide-ranging federal inquiry into the activities of the senator and his staff has focused on allegations that he took tens of thousands of dollars in unreported cash and gifts from Mr. Chang from 1996 to 1999. Federal law requires that public officials disclose the gifts they receive and strictly limits the value of gifts that legislators can take from any one source, exempting those given by personal friends. It is also illegal to take gifts in exchange for official acts, although such a link is often hard to prove. 
Mr. Torricelli has cast his relationship with Mr. Chang in two ways: as a friendship -- one in which he scarcely lifted an official finger for Mr. Chang -- and as a political relationship typical of those that legislators have with big contributors.
Mr. Chang, who pleaded guilty last June to making $53,700 in illegal donations to the senator's 1996 campaign, was certainly an important Torricelli supporter. Besides his contributions to Mr. Torricelli's Senate race, Mr. Chang gave tens of thousands of dollars to other Democratic political causes in 1998 and 1999, when Mr. Torricelli was heading the Democrats' fund-raising efforts in the Senate, and has told investigators that he made many of them at the senator's request, people involved in the Torricelli case said.
Both Mr. Chang and his former assistant, Audrey Yu, have also told federal prosecutors that Mr. Torricelli stood to realize a financial windfall if they were successful in their bid for the Korean insurance company.
Mr. Chang, who has been cooperating with the government as part of a plea bargain, has told them that he promised the senator a $10 million commission if the deal went through, according to people involved in the inquiry and a former employee of Mr. Chang's. Ms. Yu has confirmed to prosecutors that Mr. Torricelli was to get a commission on the deal, but told prosecutors she believed that it was to be $1 million, these people said. It could not be determined whether prosecutors, who declined to comment on the Torricelli case, have obtained any corroboration of these allegations.
Mr. Torricelli would not discuss his efforts in Korea. One of his lawyers, Ted Wells, also declined to address the discrepancies between the senator's earlier assertions that he had not helped Panacom and the accounts of Korean and American officials and former employees of the company.
Mr. Wells denied that Mr. Torricelli had done anything wrong, but said he could not comment on any matters related to Mr. Chang or the federal investigation because of discussions between prosecutors and the senator's legal team. He added, "We have come to expect not only false and irresponsible charges concerning David Chang, but increasingly bizarre ones." Mr. Chang's lawyer, Bradley D. Simon, said he could not comment because of the continuing federal inquiry, as did a lawyer for Ms. Yu, Alberto Rivas.
Nearly two years after Mr. Chang abandoned his bid for the insurer, Daehan, or Korea Life Insurance Company, what has become clear is that Panacom, which he incorporated in Delaware in 1997, was hardly the enterprise that its executives -- and Mr. Torricelli -- described to Korean officials.
On its Web site, Panacom described itself as an international powerhouse: "Our activities span many industries and include food, medical products, construction, telecommunications, transportation, waste management, water treatment, sewage disposal, consumer electronics, mining, crude oil and gas exploration and development, machinery, heavy equipment and power plant design and equipment."
In fact, several former employees said, Panacom was only somewhat more than a shell. Although Mr. Chang told Korean officials he employed 300 to 400 people, the company actually never had more than a handful of employees. Other than grain trading that Mr. Chang had done with North Korea in the early 1990's (and for which he still claims to be owed tens of millions of dollars by the North Korean government), his primary international financial deals had involved losing large amounts of money on foreign stocks, his former employees said.
What Panacom did have, however, were powerful political connections.
The company's nominal chairman, Daniel J. Murphy, was a retired four-star Navy admiral who had been a deputy director of the Central Intelligence Agency, chief of staff to George Bush in the early 1980's when he was vice president and a $20,000-a-month lobbyist for Mr. Chang during the 1990's. 
Mr. Chang named another of his lobbyists, James A. Courter, the former six-term Republican congressman from New Jersey, as one of Panacom's two presidents. And for a high-powered consultant, Mr. Chang hired Terry McAuliffe, a close friend of President Clinton and former American trade ambassador in South Korea who has since become chairman of the Democratic National Committee. Mr. Chang himself took the title of vice president and senior adviser.
Asked about his own role in Panacom's efforts, Mr. Torricelli issued a statement last fall suggesting that it had been negligible. 
"Senator Torricelli has never discussed Mr. Chang's business matters with any Korean officials," the statement said. "A few years ago, a staff assistant provided Mr. Chang with a letter of introduction that was nearly identical to similar letters of introduction provided by Governor Christie Whitman and various members of Congress," the statement said. "Such letters are standard and available to any New Jersey company seeking a reference to embassies or foreign governments, and they were not reviewed by the senator personally."
But according to diplomatic cables, letters from Mr. Torricelli, former Panacom employees and United States and Korean officials, the senator took an active part in trying to help Panacom win the bid.
When Mr. Chang set his sights on Daehan in the summer of 1998, he faced formidable competition.
The insurance company, South Korea's third-largest, had huge debts and a bloated work force and -- after the near-collapse of the country's financial system in 1997 -- uncertain prospects for growth. But such was its position in the world's sixth-biggest insurance market that soon after the South Korean government announced that it would be sold, its suitors included such international companies as the American International Group and Metropolitan Life Insurance.
Almost immediately, Panacom turned to Mr. Torricelli for help, and on Sept. 24, 1998, the senator wrote two important letters to Korean officials, documents and interviews show.
One letter, Korean officials said, was addressed to Lee Hun Jai, the director general of the country's Financial Supervisory Commission, the government agency in charge of the nation's financial restructuring. According to Chung Chae Woong, the director of the agency's insurance division, the letter introduced a Panacom official who had visited Korea, Michael S. Kimm, and described the company as "experienced in financial transactions."
A second letter went to Korea's president, Mr. Kim, an old friend of Mr. Torricelli's whom the senator had embraced at a White House state dinner and played host to at a reception in New Jersey barely three months earlier.
"In light of my extensive experience with and knowledge of Korea, I thought it might be of mutual assistance to bring Mr. Kimm and Panacom Inc. to your attention," Mr. Torricelli wrote, according to a copy of that letter viewed by The Times. "I am confident that Mr. Kimm and Panacom can diligently and responsibly handle even the most difficult international financial transactions, and I present them to you with my strongest possible recommendation. I look forward to working with you and your government on issues important to the security and prosperity of our respective countries."
One former Panacom official said that after Mr. Torricelli's letters, Mr. Kimm was soon granted an audience with Mr. Lee, the Financial Supervisory Commission chairman. Mr. Kimm did not respond to several telephone calls asking for comment, but the former Panacom official and two Korean officials described his efforts as highly unsuccessful.
"We knew that they were cheating," a senior Korean finance official, Lee Jong Koo, said of Panacom's bid for the insurance company. "We could feel it."
Former associates of Mr. Chang said he was discouraged enough to decide not to participate in a government-sponsored auction of the company. But when the government voided that auction, Mr. Chang tried again, approaching American International Group and other American insurers about a possible partnership and calling once more on senior Korean officials.
The former associates of Mr. Chang said the Panacom chairman, Mr. Murphy, took the lead, meeting in late June 1999 with the Korean prime minister, Kim Jong Pil, whose brother he had once represented as a lobbyist. In late June 1999, Mr. Murphy and Mr. Chang met with the prime minister and told him they wanted to bid for the insurance company outside the auction process, the former associate said, promising to pay a higher price than the others and to preserve much of the company's work force.
While Mr. Kim appeared receptive, one former Panacom employee said, Korean finance officials pressed to know how Panacom would come up with the money. Mr. Chang responded again with a recommendation from Mr. Torricelli.
At about the same time, according to a State Department cable released under the Freedom of Information Act, the department notified the United States Embassy in Seoul that Mr. Torricelli would be passing through the city on July 6 and 7, 1999, to meet with Prime Minister Kim and the Korean finance minister, Kang Bong Kyoon. The cable said that Mr. Torricelli, a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, wanted to meet with them "to discuss the political, economic, and humanitarian developments in North Korea," where he was scheduled to go after his stop in Seoul.
But when Mr. Torricelli walked into Mr. Kang's office, it was with Mr. Chang at his side. In a telephone interview, Mr. Kang suggested that Mr. Torricelli and Mr. Chang pressed him for help on the Korea Life Insurance deal, but that he would have no part of it.
"At the time, I said I could not intervene," and told him nothing substantive," Mr. Kang said in the interview. "I didn't have any detailed information. I just listened and I did not respond."
American diplomats who helped with Mr. Torricelli's visit were sufficiently startled by Mr. Chang's presence at the meeting to alert the United States ambassador, Stephen W. Bosworth. The ambassador, in turn, was concerned enough to contact Mr. Kang to apologize, a former State Department official said.
"The Embassy's impression was that Torricelli was going to go in by himself and talk about North Korea and the state of the South Korean economy," said the former official. "Had the finance minister known that he was going to be lobbied on the Daehan insurance company, he would not have granted the meeting."
Mr. Bosworth later promised Mr. Kang that such an episode "would not happen again," the former official said. "For an elected official of the United States to do it this way was a little out of the ordinary -- to say the least."
Mr. Torricelli sent off yet another letter for Panacom on July 15, Korean officials said, to Prime Minister Kim in praise of the company. Ultimately, though, the efforts of Mr. Torricelli and Panacom's other supporters were for naught. Despite its promises to raise the necessary funds from New Jersey pension funds and other sources and a last-ditch partnership between Panacom and the Korea Life Insurance Company's owners, Korean finance officials intervened in September 1999 to take over the insurer themselves.
Within weeks, Mr. Chang's offices in New Jersey were raided by federal agents. And on Dec. 10, he was arrested on charges that eventually included obstruction of justice, soliciting perjury and illegal campaign contributions to Mr. Torricelli.

The Federal Investigation Into Torricelli
The federal investigation of Senator Robert G. Torricelli began more than three years ago as a relatively modest look at questionable contributions to his 1996 Senate race. It has expanded into an inquiry into the Torricelli campaign's finances and fund-raising, as well as the activities and finances of the senator himself.
In recent months, the investigation has concentrated on allegations that originated with David Chang, a New Jersey businessman who pleaded guilty in the original campaign-contributions case. According to people involved in the case, Mr. Chang has told prosecutors of a close and opportunistic political friendship in which he gave Mr. Torricelli contributions and gifts in return for help -- and promises of help -- in business deals.
The senator has insisted that he did nothing wrong, and that Mr. Chang is a liar seeking leniency from prosecutors.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Robert G. Torricelli (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. 36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INSURANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); LOBBYING (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); ETHICS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (63%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (63%); GUILTY PLEAS (50%) FINANCES; ELECTIONS; ETHICS 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) 

PERSON: KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID; GOLDEN, TIM; KIRK, DON; TORRICELLI, ROBERT G (SEN); CHANG, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



636 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 82 words

HEADLINE: April 15-21; 
Economy Bites

BYLINE:  By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
 The Federal Reserve cut interest rates for the fourth time in as many months, warning that corporate profits were in trouble. 
That was confirmed by such companies as Cisco Systems, Hewlett Packard and Honeywell, all of which announced layoffs. But some companies, including General Motors and IBM, had better earnings than expected, and Wall Street found reasons to hope that a recession could be averted. The Nasdaq composite ended its best two weeks ever, rising 26 percent. Floyd Norris

GRAPHIC: Photo: Going up for a change. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); NEWS BRIEFS (86%); RECESSION (85%); STOCK INDEXES (82%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



637 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Connecticut; 
Route 7 Corridor Gaining as Site for Office Buildings

BYLINE:  By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
EAST of Stamford where Route 7 heads north from Norwalk to the border of Massachusetts, the so-called Route 7 Corridor from Norwalk through Wilton has been coming into its own as a preferred site for office buildings.
 Some new construction is taking place, but more than a million square feet of existing offices along the route have been acquired by a single concern: the 26-year-old Davis Companies of Boston and Wilton. 
 Keeping an eye out particularly for departing corporate headquarters, Davis acquired four properties vacated through mergers and relocations by Emery Air Freight, Dun & Bradstreet, Perkin-Elmer and Purdue Pharma. All but the former Perkin-Elmer headquarters, the most recent acquisition, have been renovated and completely leased or sold to raise investment cash but still managed by Davis. 
Davis bought its first Connecticut property in 1993 at 1250 Post Road in the town of Fairfield, followed in 1996 with the purchase of 35 Nutmeg Drive in Trumbull. In 1997, it bought the former Dun & Bradstreet headquarters at 187 Danbury Road (Route 7) in Wilton and in 1998 built the 158,000-square-foot Reservoir Corporate Center in Shelton, which is now fully leased. "We sold them all," said Paul Marcus, 42, partner and president of the Davis Companies, "retaining management of the Danbury Road and Trumbull buildings, and we are approved to build two office buildings totaling 245,000 square feet on the 20-acre Shelton site." 
The cost of buying and renovating the Trumbull, Fairfield and 187 Danbury Road buildings was $31.7 million. They were sold for $58 million. The money from sales was put into other Wilton and Route 7 purchases.
Davis is a private real estate investment, management and development concern specializing in buying existing buildings at minimal cost and renovating and repositioning them as first-class office space.
Davis bought distressed mortgage loans and parlayed them into apartment ownership during the recession of the late 80's and early 90's. It was following a practice successfully put into place by W&M Properties of Manhattan and Stamford during the Depression of the 1930's. After those moves, both companies were able to buy various commercial properties and turn them into Class A office space. The only major difference is W&M's tendency to hold onto its properties, while Davis sells about half of what it has bought and improved.
"We've carved a niche for ourselves," said Jonathan G. Davis, 48, founder and chairman of the company, "as value-added investors with a long-term view and long-term equity capital available to us." Mr. Davis calls himself "a bootstrap entrepreneur," having jumped into real estate right out of Brandeis University with the purchase of a two-family house in Boston.
"Our 50-50 strategy about buy versus hold has been a great approach," he said, "generating operating capital and a hedge against inflation and market downturns. We're encouraged by the fact that there is so little new supply and sources of capital are relatively disciplined."
Anthony Malkin, president of W&M, which has the same general philosophy as Davis, said: "We pursue the properties we want aggressively, but we are not simply accumulating square footage. We produce a consistent package of amenities: conference rooms, fitness centers, dining facilities and locations near mass transportation. I have a high regard for Davis, and have no problem with their doing the same thing. Private, well-capitalized ownership is good for the real estate market."
W&M, the suburban arm of Wien & Malkin, a fourth-generation family-owned investment, management and development company in Manhattan, has 2.5 million square feet of office, retail and residential properties in Westchester and Fairfield Counties. Wien & Malkin has 8.5 million more square feet in Manhattan, plus divisions operating out of eight offices around the country and in Europe. 
Comparatively a fledgling, the Davis Companies has 4.5 million square feet of office, retail and residential properties in Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Pennsylvania, Texas and Connecticut. 
"The Malkins," said David P. Fiore, 44, senior vice president in charge of Davis's Connecticut properties, "are our closest competitor. We have nothing but admiration for them. Every property they bought we would have bought. We are constantly searching for properties and negotiating for them, and our finished product must meet Class A standards." As many amenities as are appropriate are provided, and locations are sought near public transportation. 
Mr. Marcus, who joined the Davis Companies in 1992, said, "We made a strategic decision to invest in the central Fairfield County-Route 7 corridor versus going into Stamford." The reasons he cited were land available for new homes, the highly rated Wilton and Weston schools, top executives living in Weston, Wilton and New Canaan, and the reverse commute from New York, White Plains and Stamford.
IN 1998, Davis bought 200 Connecticut Avenue (Route 1) in Norwalk, a former Purdue Pharma headquarters now leased to Cendant, and in 1999 it acquired the vacant former Emery Freight building on Route 7 next to the Wilton station and town center. Badly neglected, it was gutted and rebuilt with the addition of a small day care center. It is occupied by Commonfund, a nonprofit institutional money management firm. Davis continues to own both buildings.
Acquisition and transformation of the 33-acre Perkin-Elmer site at 50 Danbury Road (Route 7) in Wilton from its use as a manufacturer of analytical instruments to upscale offices will cost the Davis Companies an estimated $90 million. Its first tenant, A.I.G. Financial Products, a subsidiary of American International Group, has signed a long-term lease for 65,584 square feet. 
Once the remaining Perkin-Elmer employees move out next month, renovation of 260,000 square feet in two brick buildings and construction of an additional 200,000 square feet in two new buildings will begin. The existing cafeteria, 150-seat auditorium, fitness center, outdoor tennis court, volleyball and basketball courts, picnic groves, and jogging-walking trails will be upgraded, and extensive landscaping is under way along the Route 7 frontage, where the company is installing a landscaped 800-foot-long walkway for the public.
In 1999, Perkin-Elmer sold its analytical instrument business and its name to EG&G, a government contractor that changed its name to PerkinElmer Instruments, in Shelton. Perkin-Elmer's life sciences division, based in Foster City, Calif., and its applied biosystems division, based in Rockville, Md., is now called Applera and will move with 130 employees from the Wilton headquarters to the 1.2 million-square-foot Merritt 7 Corporate Park in Norwalk.
About 155,000 square feet of office space at 50 Danbury Road will be available in the fall, Mr. Fiore said, and rents will be at market rates for the area, $30 to $35 a square foot annually, compared with $40 to $45 in Stamford. 
New construction on Route 7 in Norwalk has begun at Merritt 7 on a 255,000-square-foot building at the southern end of its string of five buildings. Building and Land Technologies of Wilton recently completed a 235,000-square-foot conversion of a former Caldor's into offices called Merritt on the River and expects to start work on a new 350,000-square-foot building next to Merritt 7 this month. 
The central Fairfield County market, which includes Norwalk, Wilton, Darien, Weston, New Canaan and Westport, has the potential for adding three million to four million square feet of commercial real estate in the next few years, according to area brokers. Estimates by realty brokerages of current office inventory range from 5.6 million to 8.7 million square feet. The consensus is that growth is migrating east and north of Stamford and Greenwich, to areas where costs are lower and properties available. 
There are always the caveats that zoning restrictions will forbid knocking down an existing building to put up a bigger one, or new construction, renovations and additions will be rejected under zoning regulations. And a town can use its regulations to discourage a developer from pursuing approval of a project in the first place.
In the current uncertain economic climate, brokers are reluctant to talk about market activity for fear of upsetting potential deals. Some say the impact so far has been minimal, others feel that it has become difficult for corporate chiefs to make commitments and still others see slowdowns to dead stops, prompting some owners to increase work allowances and free rent to attract new tenants. 
Central Fairfield County towns, usually conservative about development, have little left to develop. "Weston has no space," said Jeffrey Dunne, senior vice president of investments at CB Richard Ellis in Stamford. "New Canaan, Darien and Westport have very little. Only Norwalk and Stamford are pro-development. Wilton is more neutral. It wants quality and will work with you to get it -- the kind of thing Davis does."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rendering shows several new offices planned on Route 7 flanking center structure, sold by Perkin-Elmer. (The Davis Companies) Map of Connecticut highlights Route 7 and Wilton.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); MERGERS (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (66%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES 

COMPANY: UPS SUPPLY CHAIN SOLUTIONS INC (57%); PERKINELMER INC (57%)

TICKER: PKI (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (57%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (57%); NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (57%); SIC3829 MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICES, NEC (57%); SIC3826 LABORATORY ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTS (57%); SIC3823 INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASUREMENT, DISPLAY & CONTROL OF PROCESS VARIABLES & RELATED PRODUCTS (57%) SIC6719 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES; 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) CONNECTICUT; WILTON (CONN); NORWALK (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



638 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Seattle Journal; 
The Boom Is Over. Need Furniture?

BYLINE:  By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, April 21 

 BODY:
A small but telling detail of Seattle's turbulent economy can be found in the changing fortunes of Buff Winderbaum, the owner of Ducky's Office Furniture. 
 A year and a half ago, high-style furniture favored by fledgling Internet companies was flying out the door of Ducky's huge warehouse here, near an entrance to the Interstate. 
 "People weren't even asking about the price," Mr. Winderbaum recalled nostalgically. "They were dealing with O.P.M. -- other people's money -- and the question was never how much it cost. It was always like: 'Can I get the furniture by Monday? I've got 35 people starting on Monday, I've got to get it by Monday.' " 
But these days, with companies closing and downsizing in Seattle and throughout the high-tech corridor of its eastern suburbs, the furniture is headed the other way, back to Ducky's. Mr. Winderbaum's warehouse is crammed with the stuff, so much that he is giving much of it away. 
"I can't even keep up with my voice mail anymore, and it's almost all people wanting to sell," Mr. Winderbaum said. 
And indeed, his mailbox -- "You have 83 new messages and 151 saved messages," the female voice informed him -- was full of offers to sell.
"We're a dot-com that was not able to make it," said a man calling from south King County. "We were an office of 10 people or so, and we have a lot of furniture I'd like to sell. We really need to talk."
A man calling from north Seattle said: "I've got three trailers worth of good, solid office furniture. I'm sure we can strike just one heck of a deal."
From Bellevue, just across Lake Washington from Seattle, came a woman offering to sell seven U-shaped executive desks, 14 chairs and "12 of those divider thingies," evidently the partitions between computer work stations.
"They're all in great shape," she said, "just a little under a year old."
And from this man, who did not give his location but spoke with a familiarity indicating he had once been a big customer of Ducky's: "We've recently gone through a downsizing, kind of a consolidation. We have several articles of office furniture that we are willing to sell. Could you give me a heads-up on whether you're interested or not?"
But the problem is that Mr. Winderbaum is not really looking to buy. 
"I've got 17 storage trailers full of this stuff," he explained. "I've just got literally no place to put it." 
There are other signs of a cooling of Seattle's once white-hot economy. Real estate agents say lease prices are dropping in at least some parts of the area, and architects who were once busy designing stylish offices for new Internet companies say business has fallen off.
Some caterers also detect a downturn, and less lavish budgets for their remaining customers, although Terry Patton, the owner of Espresso Elegance Catering, said he was still doing a great business, wheeling in carts of the speciality coffee and pastries that many Internet companies provide their employees. 
"We still do a ton of that," Mr. Patton said. "These companies see it as a very valuable part of their budget. They seem to want this coffee available, so their employees are not having to take the time to go out to a Starbucks."
The downturn is not bad news for bargain hunters like Dora Lee, a student who drove up from Olympia. For Ms. Lee, Ducky's is the place to be. 
"I heard there were some good prices because of all the dot-coms closing down," she explained, as she and a friend maneuvered a desk chair and a receptionist's chair -- $5 apiece -- into her car. 
Mr. Winderbaum said the furniture glut was good for some nonprofit groups in town, because he was helping to arrange for much of the equipment to be given away as charitable contributions.
Things are busy at Ducky's, even more so since the store was mentioned in a recent article in The Seattle Post-Intelligencer, which in turn prompted a local television news report. "It was like a four-minute infomercial for Ducky's," marveled Mr. Winderbaum, a gregarious man with curly salt-and-pepper hair and a dark green shirt with a duck logo.
Still, that does not mean Ducky's is making a lot of money. It pains Mr. Winderbaum to slash prices, and to tell callers that their trendy furniture is not worth very much these days. 
"I have to go through this speech," he said. "I say the market is inundated with furniture right now, and dealers won't give you anything near what you think. It's only worth what you can find someone to pay for it. Try to find a buyer, and eliminate the middle man if you can. 
"I would tell my best friend the same thing."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Buff Winderbaum, above, the owner of Ducky's furniture, where the used stock is going for a song. (Photographs by Larry Davis for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE DESIGN (90%); OFFICE FURNITURE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); TRENDS (73%); CLOSINGS (73%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: DUCKY'S OFFICE FURNITURE INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (91%)

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (98%) WASHINGTON, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) SEATTLE (WASH)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



639 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS: DIARY; 
Still Hearing 'I Quit' at Work

BYLINE:  By Aaron Donovan

 BODY:
Even with a slowing economy, many businesses are having trouble retaining skilled workers. A survey of 273 companies conducted by Manchester Inc., a career management consulting firm in Jacksonville, Fla., showed that half reported higher employee turnover in 2000. 
And one-third reported that their retention methods were failing.
 Valued employees most apt to leave were predominantly in sales, marketing, customer service and support staff areas, the survey showed. More companies are using financial incentives -- greater pay, benefits, tuition reimbursement and profit-sharing -- to keep employees where turnover is highest. 
 Some are throwing in other inducements, too. Fifty-eight percent of respondents allow a casual dress code, for example, compared with 38 percent in the previous survey three years ago.
Sal Vittolino, a spokesman for Manchester, said the recent spate of layoff announcements and job cutbacks did not detract from the findings of the survey, which was conducted from May to September last year as the economy already was slowing.
"I think it's still a problem to recruit and retain front-line employees," he said.
 Aaron Donovan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); EMPLOYEE TUITION ASSISTANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (88%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



640 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3278 words

HEADLINE: Sitting Pretty: How Baby Bells May Conquer Their World 

BYLINE:  By SETH SCHIESEL

 BODY:
HERE is what the United States telecommunications industry may well look like in 2004:
 Of the Baby Bell local phone carriers, once seven in number, three remain -- Qwest Communications, SBC Communications and Verizon Communications -- and they are by far the most powerful and important communications companies in the nation. The corporations once known as long-distance carriers, like AT&T, are shells of their former selves. 
 Only 15 percent of the nation's roughly 110 million households have switched their local phone service to a new competitor. But the Bells, which now sell long-distance services in three dozen states, control half of the consumer long-distance market. 
WorldCom, a highflier once worth more than $150 billion, now belongs to one of the Bells, making that company a major force in the business services market. Sprint was acquired by another Bell, or perhaps by a foreign carrier, but only after spinning off its wireless or local phone operations.
One of the Bells tried to acquire AT&T's core business services operation, but was thwarted by regulators. Global Crossing and Level 3 Communications, meanwhile, merged after a titanic clash of egos. Nextel, the big independent wireless carrier, was acquired, too. Only AT&T Wireless and VoiceStream remain as major competitors to the Bells' wireless operations.
The nation is truly wired. Eighty percent of homes have Internet access, and half of those have traded analog modems for high-speed broadband connections. AT&T's consumer operation limps along, having bought Earthlink, the big Internet service provider, though regulators required some spinoffs before allowing that deal. AT&T and the Bells have worked out the kinks in digital subscriber line, or D.S.L., technology, and have split the residential broadband market with the major cable companies.
Satellite carriers continue to sign up households for television service, but they have not made much of a dent in the consumer high-speed Internet market.
Adjusted for inflation, local phone rates in most of the country are barely below where they were in 1984, when the original American Telephone and Telegraph Company was broken up. Nonetheless, Ivan G. Seidenberg, Verizon's chairman, and his Bell counterparts have a new reason to be concerned . . .
Prediction is a risky business. But even if some details change, this is hardly the vision that communications-minded legislators, investors, analysts or executives had in mind when the much-ballyhooed Telecommunications Act of 1996 became law.
By now, and certainly by 2004, AT&T, as well as the company once called MCI and perhaps even Sprint, were expected to be significant forces in local communications markets across the country. New communications companies, lots of them, were supposed to be bringing smiles to both investors and consumers by delivering innovative bundles of services, worrying the old carriers and stealing their customers.
Many people thought that cable companies would be offering local phone service broadly, even as phone companies would be offering television service, adding choices and driving down prices in both markets. The Internet, or at least wireless technology, was supposed to threaten the traditional telecommunications oligopolists with irrelevance.
Consumers were supposed to be able to choose from many new local carriers, leading to better service and lower prices.
Little of that has happened. The Bells -- the race's tortoises -- have won.
The 1996 law was supposed to open wide new vistas of competition in formerly closed communications markets. Instead, the last five years in the communications services industry, whose sales now total more than $200 billion a year, are essentially a story of how competition exploded in a handful of areas -- but left broad sections of the industry, largely the ones that consumers interact with and spend money on every day, almost as cloistered as they had ever been.
But the industry has become a jungle, with companies crawling all over one another in a search for profits. During the last five years, new local communications carriers have raised and invested more than $50 billion. Communications carriers over all have raised about $177 billion, according to Thomson Financial. Now, many if not most of the new companies are in financial trouble and the stocks of many, young and old, have tumbled. Most of the new entrants have had trouble making money. Some are even seeking bankruptcy protection, including, just last week, Winstar Communications.
Still, it would be simplistic to say that the communications act has failed. The billions of dollars of new capital flowed exactly where the contours of the law and of the communications market itself directed them.
Looking at how the industry evolved and why it evolved as it did yields essential lessons about the nature of the communications business, lessons that can help one understand what may be yet to come.
Long-term success in the telecommunications business is built on two pillars: control of networks and relationships with customers. But not all networks or customer relationships are equal.
The importance of a company's owning its own network began to emerge as a fundamental driving force in the communications business soon after the old AT&T broke itself up under pressure from the Justice Department in 1984.
AT&T, as the owner of essentially the only national long-distance network, was forced to sell wholesale long-distance access to upstarts like MCI and the venture that became Sprint. Nonetheless, MCI and Sprint realized that they had to build their own networks to generate sustainable profits. The issue was almost purely financial, not technical. With the right upgrades, AT&T's network would have been more than capable of carrying all of the companies' traffic.
New national long-distance networks do not come cheap, and they require much engineering talent. But the process is relatively straightforward: cobble together rights of way from railroads, pipeline companies, highway authorities and other property owners if necessary and bury fiber optic lines as fast as possible.
To be effective, a long-distance network basically has to connect to only a single point in each market it serves. In Manhattan, for instance, many major domestic long-distance networks meet on Hudson Street. There, they exchange traffic with one another and hand off calls to local carriers to be "terminated" at their destinations.
From 1984 to 1996, however, the Bell companies retained a vise-like grip on most local communications markets because, unlike AT&T, they were not required to share their networks with other companies.
And local networks are far more complicated -- and expensive -- to build and maintain than long-distance networks. Replicating a Bell company's local network would require running wires along every single street in a city or town and into almost every single home and office building.
"The local market is very capital intensive, and there are very high barriers to entry," said Daniel P. Reingold, head communications analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston and one of the only prominent Wall Street analysts who remained focused on fundamentals during the overheated 1990's. "In the long-distance industry, by contrast, the barriers to entry are much lower and so the number of players is much higher."
THOSE realities did not discourage new companies from entering the local communications business. But they did force them to focus, and not on consumers. When a handful of companies, led by MFS Communications and Teleport Communications Group, began to build new local fiber optic networks in the late 1980's and early 90's, they increased their chances of financial success by aiming almost entirely at downtown areas and business customers. One business might spend thousands of dollars a month on communications; many households do not spend even $100.
Running fiber optic lines directly into office buildings made a lot of sense, as things turned out. The communications carriers that jumped early into the market built valuable assets that were later snapped up by long-distance companies trying to reduce their reliance on the Bells. MFS agreed to be acquired by WorldCom in 1996 for about $12 billion. Teleport agreed to be acquired by AT&T in 1998 for $11.3 billion.
By 1994 and 1995, when the Telecommunications Act was being hammered out, long-distance competition had clearly become a big success. Hundreds of companies -- a handful with their own networks, most reselling the use of others' networks -- had entered the market, driving down prices and expanding choices.
But there was still almost no local communications competition, and rates had risen with inflation. A relative handful of business customers were being courted by new companies, but the vast majority of consumers and companies still had no choice in local service.
So Congress set out to replicate the success of long-distance competition in local markets.
Because it was basically impossible for anyone, even AT&T, to fully reproduce the local networks that the Bells had built with monopoly profits over many decades, lawmakers took a different course. They decided to require the big local phone companies to open their networks. The Bells were forced to sell access to pieces of their networks to other companies. If a new company wants to lease the use of a copper wire into a certain home or business, the local Bell company must agree to negotiate such a lease.
In return, the Bells won their long-awaited path into the long-distance market.
After much wrangling among companies and lawmakers, the communications act said the Bells could offer long-distance service when they convinced the Federal Communications Commission that they had met a checklist of technical requirements for opening their systems. No actual competition, however, was required -- and relatively little has materialized.
So far, the Bells have been allowed to sell long-distance service in five states: Kansas, Massachusetts, New York, Oklahoma and Texas. Most people in the communications business expect the Bush administration to open the floodgates for the rest of the country.
The economics of long distance enticed other new entrants, too. Bernard J. Ebbers, perhaps the most successful communications entrepreneur of the last two decades, had built WorldCom into a long-distance powerhouse, generating huge returns for investors by growing fast while keeping costs low. Eager for similar successes, Wall Street financed the construction of at least four new national long-distance networks by at least four new companies: Qwest, Level 3, IXC (now part of Broadwing) and 360networks. Other companies like Frontier Communications, which was acquired by Global Crossing, put together networks using pieces from other companies in addition to their own construction.
In local markets, meanwhile, Wall Street financed dozens, if not hundreds, of new companies, too. And almost all of them concentrated on serving big-spending business customers (the lone significant exception being the RCN Corporation). In most of the nation, local residential phone rates are artificially low, subsidized by rates for business customers that are artificially high. That system encouraged new carriers to "cherry pick" business customers while ignoring consumers.
Somewhat mindful that sustainable profits rest on network ownership, most of these new local carriers built parts of networks. They bought switches, in huge amounts, from companies like Lucent and Cisco Systems. They bought billing systems from companies like Convergys. But very few built end-to-end networks including local fiber optic lines, and most remained to some extent dependent on the Bells. The ability of new carriers to buy access to many parts of the Bells' systems may have even discouraged them from building more extensive networks of their own.
For the carriers, in both long-distance and local business markets, freedom has proved disastrous.
THE original Big Three long-distance carriers -- AT&T, MCI and Sprint -- were already fierce competitors in the long-distance market. As new companies, particularly Qwest, entered that market, rates plummeted even faster. Five years ago, few consumers blinked at paying 20 cents a minute for daytime long-distance calls. Now, rates below 10 cents a minute, 24 hours a day, are common. Just as damaging, price competition in the business long-distance market has become ruinous.
"The long-distance companies have been losing power hourly since 1984, and the local carriers have been gaining power," said Howard Anderson, founder of the Yankee Group, a technology and communications research firm in Boston. "As soon as we did the telecom act, that was the death knell for the long-distance business."
At the same time, the dozens of new companies serving businesses' local needs were also forced to slash prices, simply to generate some return on their billions of dollars of freshly raised capital. With margins thin even at the outset, companies like ICG and E.spire have filed for bankruptcy protection. And more are expected.
In this environment, only the Bells have been sitting relatively pretty, enjoying their bastion of local residential services, even if their growth has been slowed by the economic downturn. Just 17.5 percent of the local lines for big businesses were served by new carriers at the end of last June, according to the most recent F.C.C. data. For residences and small business, the comparable figure was only 3.2 percent.
Even the big companies that tried to crack local residential markets by using pieces of the Bells' network, like MCI and AT&T, found it tough to make money.
That is why, in 1998, AT&T changed strategies and started buying cable systems. Two years later, AT&T had spent about $90 billion acquiring Tele-Communications Inc. and the MediaOne Group. AT&T knows that sustainable profits in the telecommunications business are built on owning networks. AT&T also knows that sustainable profits are built on sustainable customer relationships. In the telecommunications business, a customer is valuable not because she will buy a tangible product and take it home, but rather because she represents an continuing, perhaps perpetual, revenue stream. Better yet, a committed customer is a likely target for buying additional services.
Most of AT&T's revenue traditionally came from the consumer long-distance business, and C. Michael Armstrong, who took over as chairman of AT&T in 1997, saw the writing on the wall. He knew that the Bells would attack AT&T's base in the consumer long-distance market. With continuing relationships with most of the nation's households, the Bells would try to build on those relationships by adding long-distance service to their product menus.
But AT&T could not retaliate. Relying on the Bells' networks to offer local service over the long term was a fool's game. AT&T had been soundly rejected by regulators when the company tried to negotiate a merger with SBC in the summer of 1997.
AT&T's only viable option for getting local residential networks was to acquire cable companies. Unfortunately, perhaps, John C. Malone, the chairman of TCI, the first big cable operator that was bought by AT&T, also knew it. He was able to get AT&T to agree to pay what some analysts viewed as an overly generous price, $31.8 billion, for his systems. The TCI and MediaOne deals contributed to the growth of AT&T's debt, which at the end of January stood at about $46 billion. The company's quarterly interest costs are as much as $1 billion.
WITH its vision of using cable lines to offer local phone service in addition to high-speed Internet access and interactive television, AT&T was the best hope for widespread local residential competition.
Some experts thought that cable and local phone companies would invade each other's markets. That did not happen because cable companies largely concentrated on adding channels and Internet service while phone companies gave up on television and turned their hopes to the long-distance market.
Some experts had thought that the Bells would invade one another's territories. That did not happen because the Bells knew better than anyone that profits rested on network ownership, and they do not own significant networks in the other companies' territories.
With almost all of the new local carriers focused on business customers, that left AT&T. But AT&T appeared to give up on the vision of using the cable systems as a vehicle to sell AT&T's panoply of services to consumers. Under pressure from impatient investors and board members, the company announced last fall that it intended to split into three companies with four separate stocks -- one each for its wireless, cable, business and consumer operations.
Yes, as the company says, there will still be a "family" of AT&T companies, the cable operation intends to continue to expand its telephone operations and the consumer operation intends to keep entering local markets.
BUT none of the remaining AT&T operations will have the strength that the combined company could have had in going head-to-head against the Bells in local markets.
Success in the telecommunications business rests on control of networks and control of customers.
The local phone companies have networks that cannot be duplicated. That is why, lawmakers' rhetoric aside, unfettered deregulation will not lead to more competition. If competition and lower prices are the goal, pro-competition oversight is required to ensure that the companies with essential assets do not use them to stifle others.
"Introducing competition in monopoly markets requires consistent pro-competition intervention by the government," said William E. Kennard, who resigned as the F.C.C.'s chairman earlier this year. "This thought that if the government gets out of the way, competition will somehow spontaneously bloom, I just don't get it."
The local phone companies have direct relationships with almost every household in the United States. Profit margins in the long-distance business have been sliced to the bone, but the Bells can still make money there because their new long-distance customers are already their local phone customers. It is far less expensive to sell a new service to an existing customer than it is to win over a customer with whom you have had no previous relationship. That is Business 101.
And it is probably also taught in Business 101 that markets with more competition have lower prices. Since 1984, the Consumer Price Index has risen 73 percent. Over the same period, local communications prices are up 70.2 percent while long-distance prices are down almost 34 percent.
. . . It is 2004 and Ivan Seidenberg, chairman of Verizon, the nation's biggest communications company, is nervous.
Local network ownership. Direct customer relationships. Those engines have propelled his company and all the big local phone carriers into lucrative new markets and to new financial heights.
But those same engines are strapped to another set of companies: cable operators.
All around Verizon's Manhattan headquarters, the local cable company, AOL Time Warner, is delivering consumers 150 channels of digital television, 50 channels of interactive television, 40 channels of digital music and office-caliber Internet service, all through a single cable line. Telephone wires simply cannot compete with that kind of bandwidth.
Now, after years of anticipation, AOL has announced a multibillion-dollar plan to offer local phone service over cable systems across the nation. Maybe now, the vision of 1996 will be fulfilled. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ivan G. Seidenberg, Verizon's chairman, may be in the catbird seat, but he has to keep a wary eye on the local competition: cable operators. (Associated Press); C. Michael Armstrong, AT&T's chairman, knew that the Bells would attack his consumer long-distance base, but he could do little to retaliate. (Associated Press); As chairman of TCI, John C. Malone leveraged AT&T's strong need for his cable company's local networks into a $32 billion purchase price. (Reuters); The economics of long distance enticed low-cost, fast-growth entrants like WorldCom, which Bernard J. Ebbers built into a powerhouse. (Associated Press)(pg. 12); (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart: "Scant competition for local phone service . . ." Market share of local telephone service, June 2000 RESIDENTIAL AND SMALL BUSINESSESOld local telephone companies: 96.8%Alternative telephone companies: -- MEDIUM AND LARGE BUSINESSESOld local telephone companies: 82.5%Alternative telephone companies: -- . . . and the battle for long-distance customers . . .Graph shows market share of long-distance carriers from 1985-1999 . . . have led to a plunge in long-distance ratesGraph shows change in prices for service since the breakup of AT&T from 1985-2000 in these areas: LOCAL CALLS, CONSUMER PRICE INDEX, INTERSTATE CALLS (Sources: Federal Communications Commission; Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); BROADBAND (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (88%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TELEPHONE RATES (73%); MODEMS (72%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (72%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (68%); LEGISLATION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (96%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (93%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); CENTURYLINK INC (91%); LEVEL 3 COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (96%); VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); CTL (NYSE) (91%); LVLT (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (96%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (96%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (93%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (91%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%)

PERSON: IVAN SEIDENBERG (58%); JOHN MALONE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



641 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: Who's Buried in Grant's Tomb? 

BYLINE:  By Richard Brookhiser; Richard Brookhiser is the author of "Alexander Hamilton, American."

 BODY:
 GRANT
By Jean Edward Smith.
Illustrated. 781 pp. New York:
Simon & Schuster. $35.
 A COMMON historians' stunt is the poll rating presidents. The trinity of excellence at the top is always the same -- Washington, Lincoln, Franklin D. Roosevelt. So is the handful of scoundrels and duds at the bottom, which always includes Ulysses S. Grant. When Bill Clinton left the White House in an inky cloud of pardons, his defenders argued, and many of his critics conceded, that he was not as bad as Buchanan, Harding or Grant. Grant's considerable accomplishments and virtues are never quite enough to remove the stain that his time in the White House has left upon him. In "Grant," Jean Edward Smith, a political scientist at Marshall University and biographer of John Marshall, takes on this large and misshapen reputation, and argues that the 18th president was not only a great general and a great writer but a decent chief executive as well. 
Grant's early life forecast no great things. He was the son of a prosperous Ohio tanner, who pushed him into going to West Point, where his record was fair to poor. Grant was small and quiet -- he looked like a "slouchy little subaltern," according to one acquaintance; another called him "a man who could remain silent in several languages." Only two facts about his youth stand out. He married Julia Dent, a Missouri planter's daughter who was the sister of his West Point roommate, a sensible woman who loved him as deeply as he loved her. He also had a phenomenal way with horses. People came from miles around to watch him break colts; at the academy he rode a nasty beast that no other cadet could handle.
Grant's first experience of battle came in the Mexican War, a conflict in which he believed his country was in the wrong. In his "Personal Memoirs," he makes plain that he modeled himself after one of the two American commanders, the unkempt and laconic Zachary Taylor. But Smith argues that he also learned from the spit-and-polish Winfield Scott, whose 250-mile march from Veracruz to Mexico City showed how a modern army could cut loose from its base and live off the land. Grant would remember that lesson during the Vicksburg campaign.
The 1850's were the locust years for Grant. The peacetime army assigned him to dull postings far from Julia, where he took to drink. After one bout of intemperance, he was forced to resign his commission. He moved to the Midwest, where he failed at various commercial ventures. "He was too tenderhearted to be a rent collector," Smith notes, "and too candid to sell real estate." 
Then came the Civil War, and the world found that Grant was a genius. He went from triumph to triumph, breaking the Confederate hold on the Mississippi River at Vicksburg, restoring the Union's fortunes in Tennessee at Chattanooga and then, after being named general in chief at 41, executing the push to victory in northern Virginia. When Smith comes to write about the war, he must find a way to navigate well-trampled territory. The temptation for Civil War historians is to fall into a kind of lurid sportswriting, in which battalions "hurl" and lines "reel." Smith succumbs here and there, but for the most part he describes the familiar campaigns with an admirable chastity of diction.
Smith's view of his subject is cleareyed. He shows that Grant made a number of mistakes, from being in the wrong place at a crucial moment in the siege of Fort Donelson (only his skill with his mount enabled him to cover seven miles of icy roads fast enough to save the situation) to a tendency, acquired in Mexico, to assume that the enemy would not take the offensive. This vice, however, was related to Grant's greatest virtue, which was his focus on his own goals. "He knew what he wanted," Smith says simply. 
What Grant wanted when he went east to Virginia was to come to grips with Robert E. Lee and the Army of Northern Virginia and not let go. After the Battle of the Wilderness, in which each side lost almost a fifth of its men, it would have been in keeping with Union precedent to pull back north and rebuild before making another thrust. Instead, Grant kept pushing south -- a decision, Smith writes, that "was the final turning point of the war." President Lincoln encouraged him: "Hold on with a bulldog grip, and chew and choke as much as possible." But Grant already had the bulldog's instincts.
LINCOLN'S assassination made Grant the most considerable figure in the shattered nation. After Andrew Johnson, the first president to be impeached, finished his chaotic and disgraceful administration, Grant was the inevitable successor. We all learned in high school that Grant's two terms (1869-77) were a carnival of corruption, presided over by a clueless amateur. Smith shows what is wrong with this picture. He describes the scandals that touched the Grant administration, the worst of which implicated William Belknap, the secretary of war, who took a kickback from a contractor running a military trading post. Grant himself was always beyond suspicion. Hamilton Fish, an upper-crust paragon and Grant's secretary of state, said that it would have been impossible for Grant to tell a lie, "even if he had composed it and written it down."
Smith praises several Grant administration policies. Grant and Fish together pursued an activist foreign policy, befitting the United States' emergence as a world power. Grant put the country back on a sound monetary standard after a bout of wartime inflation. Most important, he fought to make Reconstruction work. Grant had owned a slave before the Civil War, whom he freed in 1859, at considerable financial cost to himself. As president, Grant crushed the Ku Klux Klan, the White Leagues and other white-power banditti in the South. No "associations using arms and violence can be permitted to govern any part of this country," he said. Smith quotes the historian James M. McPherson, who asserts that thanks to Grant's efforts the election of 1872 was "the fairest and most democratic presidential election in the South until 1968."
Given his achievements, how did Grant come to be an image of political incompetence? One source of his bad reputation, Smith shows, was the disdain of upper-class intellectuals, epitomized by Henry Adams. "The progress of evolution from President Washington to President Grant," Adams wrote in a famous crack, "was alone evidence enough to upset Darwin." Another pool of Grant haters was the Dunning school of historians, founded by William A. Dunning, a turn-of-the-last-century professor of history at Columbia, whose graduate students did the first studies of Reconstruction. Their work was written from a white-supremacist point of view -- The Birth of a Nation" with footnotes. Together, the snobs and scholars did what Lee couldn't, and took Grant down.
Occasionally Smith oversells his case. He shows that Grant intended a humane Indian policy, and put Ely Parker, who was both a Union veteran and a chief of the Senecas, in charge of it. But frontier bloodshed continued as before. Early in Grant's term, Jim Fisk and Jay Gould, two sleazy Wall Street operators, tried to corner the gold market by giving the impression that they had an in with the White House through Grant's brother-in-law, who was on their payroll. When the guileless Grant finally realized what they were up to, he ordered the Treasury to sell gold in order to break the corner. Smith calls Grant's tardy act "decisive," but the attempted corner was already collapsing by the time word of Grant's sell order reached Wall Street. Smith's overenthusiasm does not undermine his basic case, however, which is that Grant was a solid, above-average president, not unlike Dwight Eisenhower.
The end of Grant's life was turbulent. He tried unsuccessfully to win a third term in 1880. Four years later, all his savings were wiped out by a crooked investor. Grant wrote a few magazine articles on the war to earn some money and, no doubt, regain touch with early glory. Mark Twain, spotting a good thing, became the publisher of his "Personal Memoirs." A diagnosis of throat cancer gave Grant a literal deadline. Fighting pain and the haze of drugs, he produced 275,000 words in less than a year. Smith does little with the memoirs except to cite the praise of Edmund Wilson and Gertrude Stein. Yet Smith's book tracks Grant's skill with words throughout his life. No one, Smith quotes one Union officer, ever had to read Grant's orders "a second time to understand them."
When Grant was old and broke, he got a check from a stranger for $500, with a note: "General, I owe you this for Appomattox." Jean Edward Smith's "Grant" is another installment of the debt we all still owe him.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Richard Andersen) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); ARMIES (88%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HISTORY (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LITERATURE (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); HORSES (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL UNIVERSITY (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%) BROOKHISER, RICHARD; SMITH, JEAN EDWARD; GRANT, ULYSSES S (1822-1885) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (71%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%)

TITLE: GRANT (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



642 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Lookout; 
The Peacemaker Takes Up Another Line of Work

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
JUST what is the American responsibility for peace in the Middle East?
 Last week, as Palestinian mortar attacks prompted an Israeli incursion into Gaza, the United States stepped in with a stern reprimand of Israel, playing the familiar American role of mediator despite the Bush administration's desire to resist direct involvement. 
 In recent months, most discussions of the American role have been framed as a clear choice: whether to pursue a final peace or back off and just help damp down violence. But the worse the violence gets, the more everyone agrees that nobody can work on a final peace until the fighting abates.
For now, at least, the United States can no longer consider the exalted goal of a comprehensive peace settlement that was laid out nearly a decade ago in the Oslo agreements. The real question is how to use American influence to keep the violence from spiraling out of control. 
After nearly a decade of playing grand peacemaker, the United States is now trying to simply prevent more serious hostilities, which was its main role in the region at the height of the cold war. 
"There is a real risk of escalation, even of a regional war," says Bruce W. Jentleson, director of the Terry Sanford Institute of Public Policy at Duke University, who was on the State Department's policy planning staff in 1993 and 1994. Mr. Jentleson, and indeed Middle East hands in the administration, don't think the situation is on the brink of war. But it is serious enough that Secretary of State Colin L. Powell has become the prime agent of damage control.
It is a role familiar to Americans. History -- which offers cautions against both too much intervention and too little -- shows that it has been hard for the United States to stay out of the way of the Middle East's periodic eruptions. In fact, from President Truman's critical decision to recognize Israel in 1948 to President Clinton's ill-fated attempt to rush an Israeli-Palestinian peace accord in 2000, the United States has been immersed in helping to set the region's direction.
These days, the lines that divide the Middle East are not nearly as simple as they were in the early days of Israel's existence, when there just seemed to be Arabs on one side and Israelis on the other. Now, decades of American involvement have brought moderate Arab regimes like Jordan and Egypt into a more intricate relationship with Washington. Still, America has always tried to balance ensuring Israel's security and tending to interests that enmesh America's fate with that of the Arabs: access to oil, containing first the Soviet Union and now Iraq, and, more recently, trying to bring the Arabs into the globalized world.
THE American role can be divided fairly neatly into two periods, in neither of which the United States had the luxury of ignoring the conflicts. During the Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson and Nixon administrations -- from the Suez crisis to the aftermath of the 1973 war -- American diplomacy repeatedly focused on preventing the outbreak of an Arab-Israeli war or stopping hostilities before a war widened to include the major powers. 
After that, until the end of the Clinton years, the focus shifted to trying to fashion peace.
In the first period, the Americans became a critical force for containment when President Dwight D. Eisenhower refused in 1956 to go along with a secret understanding between Israel, France and Britain to occupy the Suez Canal zone. His refusal forced a humiliating withdrawal by the allies and an Israeli retreat from the Sinai. Israel took the lesson to heart and, in 1967, it waited for Lyndon Johnson to exhaust a diplomatic initiative before launching its six-day war in response to Gamal Abdel Nasser's efforts to deny it access to the Red Sea.
 SIX years later, President Richard M. Nixon's foreign policy architect, Henry A. Kissinger, helped contain the 1973 war, securing a truce that ended the possibility of Soviet intervention. 
Then, as an Arab oil embargo stalled the West's economies, Mr. Kissinger carried American policy into a new phase: the active pursuit of peace deals. For the first time, the most senior American officials engaged in shuttle diplomacy, trying to move the region toward an overall settlement through a series of partial military and political agreements. These led the way for President Jimmy Carter to obtain the Camp David peace treaty between Egypt and Israel.
While the commitments Washington made to support Camp David have continued, at times the United States has seemed less certain about its willingness to stay involved in Middle East crises, sometimes paying a penalty when the region interpreted its actions as retreat -- as when American troops left Beirut in the wake of a 1983 bombing that killed 241 servicemen.
More recently, Ambassador April Glaspie's failure to be tough with Saddam Hussein at a critical moment in 1990 was interpreted as sheer weakness by Mr. Hussein, who soon after invaded Kuwait. 
That history hangs over the present. American allies like Egypt and Jordan fear that the initial wariness of the Bush administration to deal with the Israeli-Palestinian conflict could be seen as another American retreat. 
In the 1990's, the first Bush administration organized regional peace talks in Madrid and the Clinton administration adopted the Israeli-Palestinian peace talks begun at Oslo as a cause to be nurtured to fruition. The Clinton administration tried mightily to get the two sides to implement the Oslo accord, but those efforts collapsed last summer, leaving the two sides in conflict.
There was, according to Clinton officials, a surreal period last fall and winter when the United States was trying to make peace one day, and prevent a war the next. 
Today, there is no such confusion. "In the immediate instance, we're trying to prevent escalation that could lead to war through miscalculation," said Edward P. Djerejian, an assistant secretary of state for Near East affairs in the first Bush administration who is in touch with General Powell on Middle East questions. He cites the 1967 and 1973 wars as moments when the United States failed to prevent large-scale wars -- failures he said this administration does not want to repeat. 
But others read the history differently. Mr. Jentleson cites as parallels the crises of 1956 and 1973, because the task at hand is to keep violence that has started from becoming a wider war. He sees five messages that need to be sent: To Israel, reassurances of American steadfastness coupled with clear red-light warnings on its actions toward the Palestinians; to Syria, warnings to rein in Hezbollah; to Egypt and Jordan, admonitions not to feed the angry rhetoric on the Arab side; and to Yasir Arafat, a warning not to add to the violence. Mr. Jentleson is convinced that none of those parties wants a full-scale war, but that sustained violence could play into the hands of Saddam Hussein, who may want one. 
This approach is not very different from the Bush administration's. General Powell's statement chastising the Israelis for "excessive and disproportionate" force last week was the most public face of its diplomacy. President Bush called the Syrian leader, Bashar al-Assad, and could hardly have failed to ask him to curb the activities of Syrian-backed forces in Lebanon. And for weeks, General Powell has made frequent calls to Israel's Prime Minister, Ariel Sharon, and the Palestinian leader, Mr. Arafat, asking them to temper their behavior.
ALL of this presupposes that another time for progress toward peace may come -- and, with it, the debate over how active Americans should be in seeking a deal. 
History suggests that the United States cannot afford to be too meddlesome, as President Clinton proved to be when he called the Camp David summit and pushed for agreement on the most sensitive issues on a short timetable. But the last few weeks have also shown that the United States cannot be as distant as President Bush would have liked. Now, his administration is searching for the right balance.
"America's great successes have been when we have nurtured an environment in which the parties can themselves move toward peace," said Robert Satloff, the executive director of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. This does not mean keeping hands off, he said, but rather creating what he calls a "supportive environment."
A former American ambassador to Israel, Samuel W. Lewis, has written that in all the years of American involvement in the region, there were only a few moments of American "laissez-faire." The Bush White House might prefer such a period now. But it is unlikely to happen.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Under the Camp David peace accords, the United States has sent troops, like this soldier photographed in 1995, as peace observers in Sinai. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); RIOTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); GLOBALIZATION (60%) DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%) PERLEZ, JANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); ISRAEL (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); EGYPT (79%); IRAQ (79%); JORDAN (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



643 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: The World: Greens and Globalization; 
Declaring Defeat in the Face of Victory

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL M. WEINSTEIN 

 BODY:
REMEMBER all those protesters dressed up as sea turtles and carrying pictures of dolphins as they railed against the World Trade Organization in Seattle in 1999? Well, the W.T.O.-bashers are back, this time in Quebec, where President George W. Bush and 33 other heads of state are gathered this weekend to reaffirm a 2005 deadline for creating a free-trade zone stretching from Canada to Argentina. And once again their target is a global bogeyman that the Humane Society of the United States, speaking for animals, has labeled "the single most destructive international organization ever formed."
 But a close look at several recent rulings by the trade organization suggests that the demonstrators' wrath may be misdirected: in fact, the free-trade group may be turning green. 
 Such a turnabout might sound bizarre, given the chorus of critics who have accused the W.T.O. of favoring the interests of business over those of groups seeking to protect the environment and endangered species. And in fact its goal of promoting open trade often does clash with the protesters' concerns -- usually when countries like the United States block imports that they believe threaten the environment. That was certainly the message environmentalists took from well-publicized cases in which the trade group ruled against the United States over efforts to stop imports of South American gasoline and fish caught in nets that also trap sea turtles. 
But surprisingly, in each case the W.T.O. affirmed the right of countries to impose trade sanctions to protect the environment. What it objected to were essentially administrative details. In other words, environmental groups "lost some battles, but won the war," said John Jackson, a trade expert at the Georgetown University Law School.
In one case, a W.T.O. appeals panel argued that the United States was unfairly blocking gasoline imports from Venezuela and Brazil. The United States maintained that the gasoline violated its clean-air statutes. In its ruling, the panel's reasoning is more important than its final decision. In a huge victory for environmentalists, the panel said the American statutes posed no problem under the 1995 global trade accord, which authorizes countries to establish such safeguards. But the panel went against the United States because it said the the clean-air statutes had been enforced in a discriminatory manner by imposing tougher restrictions on foreign refiners than on domestic refiners. Treating foreign and domestic suppliers alike is a central tenet of international trade agreements, the panel said, and it called on the United States to make administrative fixes -- which it has done.
The trade organization also ruled against efforts by the United States to block imports of shrimp caught with nets that sweep up endangered sea turtles. Again, the decision found no fault with American statutes, finding that the 1995 accord even authorizes trade sanctions when, as in this case, the environmental harm takes place in foreign waters. But the appeals panel ruled against the United States because, once again, it found that Washington had unfairly discriminated against foreign suppliers and provided them inadequate legal safeguards. As in the gasoline case, the appeals panel successfully called on the United States to make modest administrative fixes.
These rulings don't appear to be isolated -- in fact, in another case last year the right of countries to set strict environmental standards won both in principle and, for the first time, in fact. A W.T.O. appeals panel upheld France's right to block Canadian exports of products containing asbestos, a carcinogen. The ruling found that neither the statute nor its implementation discriminated against foreigners.
Taken together, the three rulings embrace the principle that the W.T.O. agreement protects the right of countries to use trade sanctions to protect the environment. This was not always the case. In an inflammatory ruling prior to the creation of the trade organization, an appeals panel rejected efforts by the United States to block imports of tuna caught with nets that also slaughtered dolphins -- the opposite of the principle underlying the organization's ruling on shrimp. Some experts say the language of the 1995 accord paved the way for the new environmental thinking. Others, like Professor Jagdish Bhagwati of Columbia University, attribute the changed interpretation to intense lobbying, especially by the environmental movement. Either way, the environmentalists have gained some measure of success.
SOME environmental groups, like the Natural Resources Defense Council, concede as much. Yet many environmentalists remain firmly opposed to the trade organization. Todd Steiner, director of the Sea Turtle Restoration Project, said: "Every time the environment and trade come into conflict, the environment loses. More insidious, with the W.T.O. rules looming in the background, lawmakers shrink from passing strict environmental protections. Today it is the shy, gentle sea turtles, tomorrow it will be our forests, our right to protect children and prisoners from forced labor, and our very democracy."
Many environmental advocates want to add explicit language to the W.T.O. charter to give special status to environmental concerns. They want deliberations before dispute bodies to be opened to public scrutiny. And they want the trade group to honor trade sanctions imposed against countries that violate international environmental accords, like the one struck in Montreal in 1987 to restrict the use of ozone-depleting chemicals.
Yet the reluctance of some leaders in the environmental movement to cheer the environmental principles newly set forth by the trade organization raises an intriguing question: What would they lose by declaring victory, however limited? Perhaps part of the answer is that if the war were perceived to be going their way, they might have trouble rallying the troops in Quebec and keeping the pressure on.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the barricades in downtown Quebec. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); IMPORT CONTROLS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ANIMALS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); COMMERCIAL FISHING TRADE (71%); ANIMAL WELFARE (70%); RIOTS (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); LAWYERS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); GASOLINE (65%); LAW SCHOOLS (63%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ENVIRONMENT 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); HUMANE SOCIETY (57%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (88%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (94%); ARGENTINA (92%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



644 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: Bush Team Sensed Economic Slump Early 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21 

 BODY:
Last fall, as the presidential campaign gave way to the long count in Florida, Dick Cheney picked up a disturbing nugget of economic intelligence.
 Mr. Cheney, who was a director of the Union Pacific Corporation before George W. Bush chose him as his running mate, heard that loadings of railroad freight cars were down. 
 That information, suggesting that the economy was deteriorating, was consistent with other soundings the Republican ticket had been taking for months. And it fit the long-held view of Lawrence Lindsey, the campaign's bearish economic adviser, that the good times of the Clinton years were partly an unsustainable bubble. 
So Mr. Cheney moved to ensure that the new administration would not be blamed for an economic downturn if he and Mr. Bush were declared the winners of the election. In a televised interview in December, he declared, "We may well be on the front edge of a recession here."
Mr. Cheney's prediction, which proved correct after the election was settled, began an effort by Mr. Bush and his team to deal with an issue that they had concluded before Election Day would loom over their agenda and political prospects if they won. The economy's powerful role in shaping Mr. Bush's start in office was reinforced this week by the Federal Reserve's surprise decision to cut interest rates for the fourth time this year because of weakening business conditions.
But despite the gloomy pronouncements, Mr. Bush has offered no policy initiatives tailored to the slowdown, aside from agreeing to speed his tax cuts. And even on that idea, Mr. Bush has not made or endorsed a specific proposal, leaving it to Congress to work out the details.
Having absorbed the main lesson of his father's defeat in 1992 -- never let yourself be portrayed as out of touch with the economic concerns of voters -- Mr. Bush and his team took office in January determined to establish that they were aware of, and sympathetic to, the economic anxiety. Yet they were also determined not to let a slowdown, of unknown severity and duration even now, upset the agenda they had campaigned on, especially Mr. Bush's tax cut.
Their strategy has been to speak more bluntly than most presidents have spoken about the economic risks -- to the point where Mr. Bush has been accused of talking down the economy -- but also to assert that policy proposals developed and debated during a period of confidence and optimism remain the right prescriptions for an era of uncertainty.
"The president's acute awareness, which he makes clear every day, of how the economy affects the lives of everyday people, is there for all to see," said Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget. "It's not necessary to posture."
Mr. Bush's approach has risks. In emphasizing for the past few months that a tax cut would help revive the economy, Mr. Bush has left himself open to criticism that his rationale will shift with economic circumstances. And by using the slowdown to make the case for his tax cut, Mr. Bush has drawn fire for playing politics with the economy.
Mr. Bush's approach also risks promising more than it can deliver. Even an accelerated tax cut is not likely to put money into anyone's pocket until late summer or fall. And, critics say, Mr. Bush's promise to deal with rising energy costs by promoting more oil and gas exploration and the construction of power plants will take years to have an effect.
"The singular focus on a large tax cut has led him to be too negative a voice on the economy and seemingly too unconcerned with maintaining long-term fiscal discipline," said Gene Sperling, President Bill Clinton's economic adviser. "Therefore, the tax cut push may have negatively affected his ability to be perceived as steady economic leader."
But the White House appears to have calculated that the most important thing is for the president to show he is engaged.
Mr. Lindsey typically briefs Mr. Bush on the economy and related issues three times a week in the Oval Office. The sessions are usually attended by Vice President Cheney; Andrew H. Card Jr., the chief of staff; Mr. Card's deputy, Josh Bolten, who was the campaign's policy director; Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's political adviser; and Karen P. Hughes, his communications director.
White House officials said Mr. Rove was tracking the effect of the economy on the mood of voters and the president's popularity.
Republicans inside and outside the administration said the White House was paying particular attention to polls that asked whether the country was headed in the right direction, a measure that typically tracks public perceptions of the economy. Those polls have shown a relatively steep drop in optimism since November.
His aides said Mr. Bush was aware of the power of business cycles through his perceptions of what the 1990-91 recession cost his father politically and on his experience in the oil industry, where booms and busts are facts of life.
"My sense of him on this issue and many others is that if we handle it right and it comes out right, you'll get credit for it regardless of what criticism you take in the meantime," said a senior White House official who spoke on the condition that he not be named.
Still, administration officials have been trying to get a handle on how the politics of the economy will play out. The growing role of the stock market in the economy has been a topic of conversation among the political and economic advisers.
Mr. Lindsey often keeps the television in his office tuned to CNBC, and talks regularly to people on Wall Street. He said Mr. Bush, who has an M.B.A., was comfortable with the jargon of the markets. "You can talk to him about spreads, this over that, and he's there," Mr. Lindsey said.
There was some relief in the administration that the downward lurches in the markets this year did not prompt widespread selling by small investors or lead to a political backlash by people who mistook the stock market for a one-way bet. 
The administration has made no move to increase financing for programs that might ease the effects of a downturn on people.
Instead, the administration is banking heavily on its tax cut, and to a lesser extent on its forthcoming energy policy, to put a floor under any downturn and set the stage for a resumption of growth.
The policies Mr. Bush ran on "were good for the short term, the medium term and the long term," said Paul H. O'Neill, the treasury secretary. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (74%); BUDGETS (73%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); TAX LAW (69%); RAIL FREIGHT (57%); INTEREST RATES (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC CORP (92%)

TICKER: UNP (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (92%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (92%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); MITCH DANIELS (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (FORMER PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



645 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Defense Cites Political Role Of Egypt Trial 

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

DATELINE: CAIRO, April 21 

 BODY:
Defense lawyers summed up their arguments this week in the case against Saad Eddin Ibrahim, a prominent Egyptian-American sociologist accused of defaming Egypt and accepting illegal donations from abroad, among other charges. 
 Ibrahim Saleh, the lead defense lawyer, told the three judges hearing the case in the Supreme Security Court that the accusations against his client were politically motivated and intended "to hunt, to snipe at and to silence" the sociologist. 
 The case is being closely watched by human rights groups in Egypt and abroad, with the charges against Mr. Ibrahim and 27 others working with him seen as an attempt to scare independent research groups away from sensitive public issues. 
The court postponed the continuation of the defense for the whole group until May 19. 
Mr. Ibrahim's five lawyers took two tracks in defending him. The first, a character defense, stressed his international reputation for solid research. The second, on points of law, laid out how much of what the Ibn Khaldun Center did was discussed publicly in Egypt, if infrequently, and suggested that some evidence was fabricated. 
Mr. Ibrahim, who is out on bail, remained confident he would win the case. "I've been optimistic since the beginning of this dilemma because this is a baseless case," he said. 
The Ibn Khaldun Center for Development Studies, which Mr. Ibrahim founded, delved into subjects like electoral fraud and tensions between Egypt's Muslim majority and Christian minority. 
Mr. Ibrahim was a vocal advocate of independent judicial review of voting in Egypt and his center had planned to monitor last fall's parliamentary election. He also wrote a satirical magazine article about Arab leaders grooming their sons to succeed them, which mentioned the Egyptian president, Hosni Mubarak. 
"Saad did not stop at the red lines; he spoke about two taboos, religious intolerance and the elections," said Abdel Qader Hashim, another defense lawyer. "He stepped into restricted areas." 
The prosecution accused Mr. Ibrahim of harming Egypt's image with exaggerated reports, of accepting foreign donations without government permission, of using donated money for personal enrichment and of bribing newscasters to report favorably on the center's work. 
The government also said the center, in its work to raise voter participation, forged registration cards. 
The defense pointed out that Mr. Ibrahim was repeatedly hired as a consultant for the United Nations, the World Bank and the European Union. The center used some of the $250,000 it received from the European Union's administrative arm, the European Commission, for a project on voting rights in Egypt. 
Mr. Ibrahim's lawyers said the center was working under contract as a company, and therefore not subject to a law requiring voluntary groups to report foreign donations. They also presented a letter from the European Commission stating that an audit found nothing improper. 
The government fabricated some evidence, the defense said. One researcher at the center, whom defense lawyers accused of being a government plant, told Mr. Ibrahim that the voter registration cards needed to be kept at Mr. Ibrahim's home for safekeeping. When the security police raided the house two days later, they made a beeline for the cards and later pronounced them forgeries, the lawyers said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIOLOGY (91%); LAWYERS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LIBEL & SLANDER (90%); POLITICS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (86%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (85%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (75%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); BAIL (72%); VOLUNTEERS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ELECTION FRAUD (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); RELIGION (64%); AUDITS (61%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%) FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (58%) MACFARQUHAR, NEIL; IBRAHIM, SAAD EDDIN; MUBARAK, HOSNI (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (58%) EGYPT (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%) EGYPT

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



646 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-13

At Quebec Talks, Bush Links Trade With Freedom
President Bush addressed Western leaders, saying that the time had come to create a single market from the Arctic to the tip of South America and "build an age of prosperity in a hemisphere of liberty." He also tried to reach out to the thousands who are protesting that a free trade accord would harm both the poor and the environment. 1

U.S. Role in Peru Crash
The airplane carrying American missionaries that was shot down in Peru had been mistakenly identified as a carrier of contraband drugs, a State Department official said. A missionary and her infant daughter were killed when the plane was downed by fire from a Peruvian fighter. 1

New Care for Japan's Elderly
In urban areas of Japan, the tradition of parents and children living together has all but disappeared as young couples leave home. As the number of elderly people living on their own has skyrocketed, the burden of caring for them has fallen more and more on the government. 3

Some Scholars Bypass China
Beijing's recent detention of several Chinese academics has led a growing number of scholars in Hong Kong to cancel trips to mainland China. They say the secrecy surrounding the detentions has made them nervous that they could be swept up in the same net. 11

After Israeli Raid, Limited Talks
Israeli and Palestinian security chiefs met in a limited effort at cooperation just hours after Israeli forces made their third incursion last week into Palestinian-run Gaza. 13

NATIONAL 14-28

F.B.I. Rejected Warning 2 Years Before Spy Arrest
The Federal Bureau of Investigation disregarded a warning that it had a mole in its ranks two years before the agency charged an agent with spying for Moscow, according to a still-classified report. The bureau and its director are being criticized for failing to detect the spy for so long, and senior bureau officials are re-examining their performance. 1

Locking Up Sexual Offenders
Many states are using civil hearings to evaluate whether sexual predators are still dangerous after their release from prison and whether they should be locked up and treated indefinitely. 1

Racehorses Are Spared
A charity known as the Thoroughbred Retirement Foundation is saving some of the thousands of thoroughbreds that are quietly sold and destroyed for horse meat. 14

A Telling Detail on Dot-Coms
One sign of the decline in the fortunes of high-tech firms can be found in the office furniture stores around Seattle, which have been deluged by returned desks and chairs. 14

Rallying Over Environment
Congressional Democrats have found a rallying cry and gone on the offensive against President Bush for environmental rollbacks on issues like arsenic in drinking water. 20

Bush Team Sensed a Slump
Mr. Bush and his team, in an effort to protect their political prospects, have been determined to show that they are aware of, and sympathetic to, the nation's economic anxiety. 20

NEW YORK/REGION 33-38

Senator Pressed Hard To Aid Big Donor, Letters Show
Senator Robert G. Torricelli has insisted that he did no more for David Chang, a New Jersey businessman who wanted to buy a South Korean insurance company, than he would have done for any constituent. But an examination by The New York Times shows that Mr. Torricelli played a busy role in support of Mr. Chang's bid for the company. A federal inquiry has focused on allegations that the senator took tens of thousands of dollars in unreported cash and gifts from Mr. Chang. 1

Possible Explanation for Crash
A minivan that slammed into a city bus, killing five members of a Brooklyn family, ran three red lights at dangerously high speed in what investigators believe may have been a rush to a hospital. 35

OBITUARIES 31

Carolyn R. Payton
A psychologist who was the first black and the first woman to head the Peace Corps, she was 75. 31

EDUCATION

Improving New York Schools
The school system is as troubled as ever, and debates over its performance have hardly changed since Mayor Giuliani took office in 1993. With its powerful unions and entrenched bureaucracy, it is a system noticeably resistant to change. At an education conference in Brooklyn last month, the mayor suggested applying to the school system the same shock therapy that has been credited with improving the police department. 33

Chess 38
Weather 39

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); ESPIONAGE (87%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); MAMMALS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); CHILDREN (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); PRISONS (71%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (70%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); AGING (68%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (68%); SEX OFFENSES (68%); FURNITURE STORES (60%); OFFICE FURNITURE (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); HORSE MEAT (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (70%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (75%) ISRAEL (93%); JAPAN (92%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ARCTIC (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



647 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3198 words

HEADLINE: Braving War and Graft, Coke Goes Back to Angola 

BYLINE:  By HENRI E. CAUVIN

DATELINE: BOM JESUS, Angola 

 BODY:
THIS ghost of a bustling industrial town is just over 30 miles from the safety of the capital, Luanda, a fearfully long distance in a country at war for decades, where guerrilla attacks skirt the cities with unsettling regularity. 
 The road to the capital is off limits from dusk to dawn. A few weeks ago, rebels attacked the nearby town of Calomboloca. killing some residents and abducting others. And earlier in neighboring Catete, at least four people were killed in a rebel attack. 
 So the idea that government soldiers would be guarding the new Coca-Cola bottling plant here should not be surprising, and certainly not as startling as the idea that Coca-Cola would be in Angola at all. 
This is, after all, a corner of the world unlike almost any other where Coca-Cola, the world's leading soft-drink purveyor, has operations. Yet the company is here, re-establishing itself in a country it quit 26 years ago. Since then, Coke, Sprite and Fanta soft drinks in Angola have come from Europe and from neighboring nations like Zambia.
The company's new $33 million plant on the banks of the Cuanza River has been up and running for a little more than a year. Another plant, costing nearly $6 million, is to open in a few months in the southern part of the country. The investment, already more than $40 million, is big by African standards.
Only the oil industry, with billions of dollars in investments, and to a lesser extent the mining industry are pouring more money, much of it American, into Angola. The country's coastal seabed is bursting with oil, and pockets of its interior are teeming with diamonds. In recent years, among African countries, only Nigeria and South Africa have rivaled Angola for direct American investment. Yet Coke's experience shows that a single large investment often has only modest benefits in a country like Angola. Unless the government decides to shift much of its oil earnings into solving extensive social problems, the country will need dozens, if not hundreds, of investments like it. 
And the challenges for Coke show just how just how hard it will be to persuade other investors that the risk is worthwhile. Even Coke, a multinational corporation, has hit many obstacles opening and operating a business in a country where civil war has raged for years and where corruption is institutionalized. 
There is, of course, the curfew, around which employees' workdays and delivery truck departures must be scheduled. 
Most of the roads between cities, -- roads that should carry Coke to the far corners of the country -- are considered too dangerous to travel day or night; they are vulnerable to rebel ambushes and land mines. As a result, the local bottling company, according to its own estimates, can reach only 3.2 million of the 5 million people in the nine provinces covered by its franchise. 
And then there is Angola's reputation as a bureaucratic black hole, where bribery is the surest and sometimes the only way of clearing a police checkpoint, obtaining a construction permit or moving supplies through customs. 
SOME people are quite surprised that the company has invested here at all," said Islay Rhind, managing director of Coca-Cola Bottling (Luanda), the joint venture established by Coca-Cola, the Angolan government and South African Breweries.
Mr. Rhind, a Scottish Coca-Cola veteran who has served all over Africa, from Botswana to Kenya to Nigeria, is more than willing to enumerate the difficulties of doing business here -- but he makes it clear that he considers none of them insurmountable.
"We bring with us a very rigid code of conduct, which isn't necessarily very popular in a place like Angola, which has this reputation for corruption," Mr. Rhind said. "But that's who we are, that's what we are, that's the way we do business."
Sticking to such policies was simple, he said; explaining them was harder. "It was very difficult to get people to understand that that's what we do and why," he said. "We don't pay bribes. We don't take bribes. It's a hard road, but that's the way it is."
As difficult and as uncomfortable as fending off demands for bribes may be at the outset, he said, it ultimately makes business easier. "Once the community knows who you are, what you are, it ceases to become an issue," he said. "Everyone knows we won't pay to have our telephones reconnected, we won't pay policemen to let our trucks through, so we don't have to bribe anybody."
Having operated in sub-Saharan Africa since 1938, Coca-Cola has learned to live with the continent's rough edges. "There will always be challenges," Robert Lindsay, a vice president of Coca-Cola's Africa Group, said in a telephone interview from the company's headquarters in Atlanta, where he was attending meetings. "But we as a business want to be there, and we will do our damnedest to be there as long as we can without putting our people or our business in danger."
Coca-Cola continued to sell and promote its products in South Africa during the apartheid era, when its archrival, Pepsi, pulled out, although Coke did sell off its South African bottling interests and shift syrup production to neighboring Swaziland. As a result, Coca-Cola was able to consolidate its hold on South Africa, which today is its biggest African market and its hub in the region.
With its return to Angola, Coca-Cola now does business in nearly all of Africa, with about 150 bottling operations on the continent. Only Libya and Sudan, which are officially off limits to American companies, have no Coca-Cola operations. 
Some countries where the risks of doing business are high, like Somalia and Liberia, have distribution networks but no local production operations. Other conflict areas, like Burundi, Congo and now Angola, have local distribution and production. Sometimes, as in Burundi, a beer brewer like Heineken, in a joint venture with Coca-Cola, handles the production. Elsewhere, as in Angola, the production is at a Coca-Cola plant jointly owned by the company and partners like the government and local breweries. 
There is money to be made. "If you look at our annual report, you will see we are profitable in Africa," Mr. Lindsay said. "It's a challenging business, but it's still a profitable business and that's why we are still there." 
Coca-Cola's results for 2000 show that the company does make money in Africa -- although it is far more profitable elsewhere. The company's operations in Africa and the Middle East accounted for 2 percent of its $3.7 billion in operating profit last year, while the region comprising Europe and parts of Eurasia accounted for 30 percent, North America 29 percent, the Asia-Pacific region 20 percent and Latin America 19 percent. 
IT is Africa's potential for sales and profits, however, that intrigues Coca-Cola. The company's case volume, a measure of growth in the beverage industry, expanded by 10 percent in Africa in the first quarter, versus a year earlier. That compares with marginal increases in more developed markets in the Americas and Europe.
"Our core business has the potential for significant expansion," said Douglas N. Daft, the chairman and chief executive, in announcing the company's first-quarter results last week. "People outside the United States drink less than one serving of carbonated soft drinks a week. Within the U.S., consumers drink more than one serving a day."
In that context, Coca-Cola's foray into African countries like Angola makes sense. 
Over the last few years -- the last one in particular -- Angola has undergone considerable changes that have made it a less hostile place to run a business. While the war still appears to be far from an end, government forces have won significant gains, creating a measure of security around the cities where international companies operate. The government has agreed to work with the International Monetary Fund on economic reforms and to allow limited auditing of the government-controlled oil sector. 
Such changes have created enough stability for Coca-Cola, if not many other companies. But a few of them are trying.
One is Seaboard Commodity Trading and Milling, part of the Seaboard Corporation of Shawnee Mission, Kan. The company, an agricultural products concern that also does business in Congo, Nigeria and Sierra Leone, came to Angola a couple of years ago. It has invested about $4.5 million rehabilitating an old wheat mill, and began production a month ago. Another is Delta Cafes of Lisbon, which has been rebuilding one of the country's principal coffee factories; the plant had been shuttered for 15 years. Angola was once one of the world's top five coffee growers, but that industry, along with many others, succumbed to the war. Now it ranks 28th in global production,
Earlier in the planning stages is Citibank, the banking unit of Citigroup, which is weighing its options. It has had a small staff in the country, in what is known as a representative office, for about two years, according to Marcus Andrade, the regional managing director. The bank hopes to open a commercial bank here eventually, he said.
That step, if taken, would provide more banking options for major international corporations, which are now served almost exclusively by Portuguese banks. But Mr. Andrade says Citibank's plans depend on the potential for growth and stability in the country.
Coca-Cola operated plants here under colonial rule, but pulled out after independence from Portugal in 1975 gave way to the civil war that continues today. For more than a decade after the pullout, nearly all Coca-Cola products in Angola arrived under loose import arrangements with foreign partners, primarily in Europe. (A tiny, independently owned plant in the central city of Huambo never closed completely, but its production has been minuscule and erratic because of difficulty in obtaining supplies.)
By the early 1990's, demand was growing. Coca-Cola decided in 1992 to take a small step back into the Angolan market, arranging to oversee the imports. But six years would pass before the company took the bigger step of re-establishing shop in the country. A couple of years after that, its bottles began rolling off the production lines of the freshly scrubbed, red-trimmed plant here.
Now flatbed trucks carrying stacks of bottle-filled crates to distribution centers are a common sight on the road between Bom Jesus and Luanda.
IN the streets of the capital, bright-red umbrellas emblazoned with the Coca-Cola logo are everywhere, hoisted by young men peddling bottles of Coke, Fanta and Sprite from big red coolers. In shops in and around the capital, new refrigerators supplied by Coca-Cola to 1,200 retail outlets keep sodas cold. And above big thoroughfares, freshly posted Coca-Cola billboards urge Angolans to "Curte o Teu Mundo," or "Enjoy Your World." 
The 12-ounce bottles sell for about 8 new kwanza, or around 40 cents at current exchange rates, well below prices in the United States and not prohibitively expensive in Angola. 
"The majority of people can afford it," said Dade Alvaro, 20, who sells sodas on Rua N'Gola Kiluange, down the street from Coca-Cola's local headquarters. Working from about 8 a.m. to 7 p.m., six days a week, he sells about five cases a day and takes home about $8 a day. It is not much, but it helps him pay his share of the rent while he works at becoming a mechanic.
"For the moment, it's good. I'm happy," he said.
Coca-Cola's attempt to increase its Angolan business partly reflects an African expansion effort begun in 1997 by M. Douglas Ivester, then the company's chairman and chief executive. Last year, 7 percent of Coca-Cola's 17.1 billion cases were sold in Africa, up from 5 percent in each of the previous three years. Over the last five years, the company has poured about $600 million into Africa, Mr. Lindsay said.
In fact, Coca-Cola's business success in Africa has been one of the few bright spots in its recent history, known more for episodes like an embarrassing and costly contamination scare in Europe a few years ago and accusations of racial discrimination against its black employees in the United States.
Almost a year ago, the company pledged $1 billion over five years to programs aimed at strengthening partnerships with businesses owned by minorities and women. And a settlement for the roughly 2,200 plaintiffs in a class action against the company could be approved in the next few months -- another step in the company's efforts to rebuild its relationship with blacks. 
Coca-Cola says its efforts in Africa, whatever effect they may have on its image at home, are about business. "We're certainly aware that what we do in Africa has a residual effect and is of interest to many people, including the African-American community here," said Ben Deutsch, a Coca-Cola spokesman in Atlanta. "But the bottom line is, our investment there is driven by our desire to grow our business in Africa."
Bottling as close as possible to customers is an important part of that strategy, Mr. Lindsay said. "The reason is that the core of our business is affordability," he added, "and when you have to transport the product into the country, it makes it much more expensive."
That is why Coca-Cola's Africa operation does not bottle beverages in just the handful of countries that are, comparatively speaking, politically stable, like South Africa, Senegal, Tanzania and Zimbabwe. And it is why Coca-Cola ended up back in Angola. Among African nations, Angola ranks 12th in total sales of Coke, just after Mozambique and Ghana and just ahead of Uganda and Namibia.
But while establishing a local presence here was almost certainly the highest hurdle, others remain. 
One is the black market that supplies canned Coca-Cola products. By evading import duties and shipping costs, black-market dealers undercut local bottlers.
Such problems are not unexpected and not entirely avoidable in a place like Angola, Mr. Rhind said. But with its 45 percent stake in the company, the Angolan government has great interest in seeing the venture flourish, and Coca-Cola is confident that the authorities are doing what they can to combat duty evasion and product dumping.
"I don't think it will disappear entirely, forever," Mr. Rhind said. "I don't believe that for one instant, but that's just how it is. You have to handle that."
Operations in Angola have been hampered by a shortage of workers with skills in areas like accounting and advanced mechanics, as well as by difficulties in obtaining production supplies.
Given the skills shortage, initial training and recruiting costs were high and the company's expectations for its workers were low, compared with other countries, Mr. Rhind said. But the company has been encouraged by the swift improvement.
"We budgeted to have fairly low efficiencies at our plant to start off with, which is normal in any country in the world," Mr. Rhind said, "and I guess we were both racial and paternalistic in assuming that that would continue for longer than one normally would expect.
"In fact, the opposite is the case," he added. "Our employees picked up the efficiencies and qualities very quickly, much more quickly than we would have expected."
When it opened the plant, the company said it expected to produce about five million cases a year. Within a few months, the production rate increased to eight million cases a year. It is now at 14 million a year.
FROM the huge vats where white sugar is mixed into water to the deafening roar of the filling machines, about 80 people work in production. Another 60 or so are in administrative and support jobs. 
For many Angolan employees, this is the first steady, formal work they have had in a long time, maybe their lifetimes. That applies even to some of the handful who have management jobs, most of which are held by foreigners. 
Sonia Bastos is an Angolan who studied chemistry in France and came back, she said, to find a way to contribute to her country. Unfortunately, she said, in a place with virtually no industry, she had only two choices: a low-paying government job or a well-paying oil-industry job that would keep her away for weeks at a time on a rig full of men.
So she waited, biding her time working as a translator and a secretary. Now she is a supervisor in the plant's quality control lab.
"We have to start at the beginning," she said of her country, "and it's very important to be part of that."
THE shortages of local supplies -- and the resulting high costs -- are evident on a walk around the plant floor. In one corner are stacks, at least 15 feet high, of boxes containing new Coca-Cola bottles. The boxes are stamped "Al Tajir Glass," referring in English and Arabic to the company in the United Arab Emirates that makes the bottles.
Near the purification system that pumps out water from the Cuanza River are 220 metric tons of sugar, a sizable stockpile even for a business that trades in sweetness. Stacked in row after row of 2,200-pound containers, the sugar was sent by ship from South Africa to Angola, a country that once had a fine sugar industry.
The huge stockpiles of sugar and other supplies are needed because deliveries here are erratic -- often held up in delays at the port. According to Harvard's 2000-2001 Africa Competitiveness Report, the average time needed for imports to clear customs in Angola was 49 days, compared with 20 in Kenya, 9 in South Africa, 7 in Botswana and 5 in Morocco.
The costs of such a distorted supply chain are high for Coca-Cola, and for the country. The company has created factory and office jobs for just over 300 people, and hundreds more now sell sodas on the street. But Angola's economy has not yet added many of the jobs in services and in supply manufacturing that such an investment ordinarily spawns.
WITH an end to the war elusive, Coca-Cola and the plant's potential spinoffs account for much of what little hope the country has for economic gains. The booming oil industry, set largely off the shores of the country and dependent on skilled workers scarcely found here, has done almost nothing to end the suffering of Angola's 12.9 million people. Of every 100 babies born in Angola, 19 die before their first birthday; the overall life expectancy is about 38 years. More than a million people, many of them driven from their land by the fighting, are fed by the World Food Program of the United Nations.
Next door to the warehouse, a small local company began operations last month, molding the bright red Coca-Cola crates used to transport the bottles. It is exactly the sort of spinoff that Angola needs. The crates, however, are used over and over, even more than the bottles. So demand for crates is tiny; it supports just eight jobs. 
Still, Angola's advocates hope that such ventures are a start -- and a signal that the country is changing and improving as an investment destination, even as the war persists.
"The important thing is the trend line," said Paul Hare, executive director of the U.S.-Angola Chamber of Commerce, who was President Clinton's special envoy to the Angola peace negotiations. "The way the country is going and the prospect of investing and making money are quite different from what it would have been two years ago."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Coca-Cola's bright colors are increasingly seen in Luanda, Angola's capital, since the company resumed production last year. It left when civil war erupted in the 1970's. (Joao Silva for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Coke's training costs in Angola ran high at first. A worker inspected a bottle for defects at its Bom Jesus plant.; Coca-Cola now employs hundreds of Angolans as street vendors. One vendor in Luanda, the capital, sells about five cases during an 11-hour day. (Photographs by Joao Silva for The New York Times)(pg. 13) Chart: "Shifting Focus"Angola, which Coke left in 1975, is back in the company's growth plan. All figures are for latest year available AREA: 772,954 sq. miles*POPULATION: 12.9 millionLIFE EXPECTANCY: 38.3 yearsGROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT: $11.6 billionINFLATION RATE: 270% MAJOR INDUSTRIES: Oil, diamonds, other mining, food processing, tobacco, sugar and textiles MAJOR EXPORT PARTNERS: United States (63%); Belgium-Netherlands-Luxembourg (9%) MAJOR IMPORT PARTNERS: Portugal (20%); U.S. (17%); South Africa (10%) TELEPHONES PER 10,000 PEOPLE: 47TELEVISIONS PER 10,000 PEOPLE: 116 AIRPORTSWith paved runways: 32With unpaved runways: 217 *Almost twice the size of Texas(Sources: C.I.A. Factbook; International Monetary Fund population )(pg. 13) Chart: "Thirsty"Coca-Cola sees plenty of room to expand its African market. South Africa consumed the biggest share of the 1.2 billion cases of Coke beverages sold in Africa last year. GLOBAL RANK: 11: South AfricaSHARE WITHIN AFRICA: 37.4 GLOBAL RANK: 26: NigeriaSHARE WITHIN AFRICA: 13.5 GLOBAL RANK: 31: MoroccoSHARE WITHIN AFRICA: 9.9 GLOBAL RANK: 50: TunisiaSHARE WITHIN AFRICA: 4.7 GLOBAL RANK: 51: KenyaSHARE WITHIN AFRICA: 4.7 GLOBAL RANK: 57: AlgeriaSHARE WITHIN AFRICA: 4.0 GLOBAL RANK: 64: TanzaniaSHARE WITHIN AFRICA: 3.3 GLOBAL RANK: 66: ZimbabweSHARE WITHIN AFRICA: 3.1 GLOBAL RANK: 71: CameroonSHARE WITHIN AFRICA: 2.6 GLOBAL RANK: 82: GhanaSHARE WITHIN AFRICA: 1.6 GLOBAL RANK: 83: MozambiqueSHARE WITHIN AFRICA: 1.6 GLOBAL RANK: 87: AngolaSHARE WITHIN AFRICA: 1.3 GLOBAL RANK: 94: UgandaSHARE WITHIN AFRICA: 1.1 GLOBAL RANK: 95: NamibiaSHARE WITHIN AFRICA: 1.1 GLOBAL RANK: 97: Ivory CoastSHARE WITHIN AFRICA: 1.0 GLOBAL RANK: 98: GabonSHARE WITHIN AFRICA: 1.0 GLOBAL RANK: 103: SenegalSHARE WITHIN AFRICA: 0.9 GLOBAL RANK: 104: BotswanaSHARE WITHIN AFRICA: 0.9 GLOBAL RANK: 107: ZambiaSHARE WITHIN AFRICA: 0.8 GLOBAL RANK: 109: MalawiSHARE WITHIN AFRICA: 0.8 GLOBAL RANK: 112: EthiopiaSHARE WITHIN AFRICA: 0.7 Others: 4.0 (Source: Coca-Cola)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINKS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LANDMINES (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); MINES & MINING (64%); CORRUPTION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO CONSOLIDATED (57%); COCA-COLA CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%)

TICKER: COKE (NASDAQ) (57%); KO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANGOLA (97%); AFRICA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); BENELUX (79%); EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); NIGERIA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); BELGIUM (70%); LUXEMBOURG (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001 



648 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: BRIDGE; 
The Musing of a Dummy Can Often Be Productive

BYLINE:  By Alan Truscott 

 BODY:
Broadly speaking, there are two types of dummy, and each falls into three categories. First, there are the 13 cards that appear on the table, and they may make the declarer happy, unhappy or somewhere in between.
 Second, there is the player who produced the dummy cards and is now unemployed. He may concentrate fiercely on what is going on, ready to challenge his partner's line of play in the post-mortem. (He might, it is true, prevent his partner from revoking, or spot an opposing revoke, but that is astronomically unlikely and can be neglected for practical purposes.) The usual procedure, entirely sensible, is to relax, conserving energy for the next deal. Finally, a few dummies devote their free moments to analyzing an earlier deal. 
 Barry Rigal of Manhattan often belongs to this last group. He is one of the world's top bridge journalists and commentators and is always looking for deals worth reporting. While dummy in the Grand National Teams qualifying stage in New York in February, he began thinking about the previous deal, shown in the diagram. Could North-South have made a slam? What conclusion did he reach? Do your own analysis before reading on. Imagine that you are dummy on another deal and have three minutes to exercise your brain.
North may be tempted to play in no-trump, but the logical contract is six spades. Suppose West leads a diamond, which is as good as anything. South wins with dummy's ace and cashes his spade winners, finding that West has a trump trick. He crosses to the heart jack, ruffs a diamond and cashes the remaining heart winners to reach this position:
South ruffs a diamond. If West overruffs, he endplays himself, so he throws a club. South finesses the club queen and ruffs dummy's last diamond, catching West in an "immaterial" squeeze.
Again, West cannot afford to overruff, and he cannot spare a club. He is therefore squeezed out of his "immaterial" card, the heart 10. Now West is endplayed by a trump lead, and the slam is made.
Did you see that within the three-minute time allowance? Or at all?

GRAPHIC: Diagram 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARD GAMES (78%) BRIDGE (CARD GAME) 

PERSON: TRUSCOTT, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001 



649 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Compressed Data; 
Survey on Women's Role in Silicon Valley

BYLINE:  By LAURIE J. FLYNN 

 BODY:
A new survey indicates that working women have made substantial headway in Silicon Valley, where career optimism is high and the percentage of female electrical engineers is four times the national figure.
 Despite the gains, though, Silicon Valley is still a man's world. 
 Over all in Silicon Valley, an estimated 28 percent of computer engineers are women, according to the survey, as are 17 percent of engineering and science managers. Among the region's computer programmers, 31 percent are women, compared with about 26 percent nationally. Slightly more than half the women surveyed said they worked in high-technology jobs. 
Of those women who work in technology, 41 percent agreed that they had to "fit into a masculine workplace" to advance, compared with only 23 percent of the women in the survey who did not work in technology jobs. And 28 percent of women who work in technology said that gender was a significant barrier to advancement, compared with 15 percent in nontechnology jobs. 
The higher their level of education, the more likely the women were to say that they felt a disadvantage: 60 percent of college-educated women in the survey said that advancement opportunities in Silicon Valley were better for men. While 40 percent of managers are women, they make up only 6 percent of senior executives at Silicon Valley's 150 largest public companies.
The survey was sponsored by Women of Silicon Valley, a joint project of the Community Foundation for Women and Collaborative Economics, two Silicon Valley organizations. The group hired Field Research to do telephone interviews with a random sample of 826 women aged 21 to 61 last November.
Forty-three percent of the women surveyed said they thought opportunities for women looked better or the same outside Silicon Valley, though most said they thought the region's job prospects were improving. Nearly three-quarters said the area had not been successful at providing access to affordable child care. 
Many are leaving the corporate workplace altogether. Roughly 10 percent of women in Silicon Valley are contractors or free agents; another 20 percent said they planned to become self-employed or start their own businesses the next three years.
 LAURIE J. FLYNN

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Women's Share"The percentage of women in each occupation from a survey of 17 em 2/3ployers in Santa Clara County, Calif. Engineering and science managers: 17%Computer programmers: 31%Computer engineers: 28%(Source: Nova Occupational Outlook) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (92%); WOMEN (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); WOMEN WORKERS (91%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (78%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (65%); FOUNDATIONS (64%); CHILD CARE (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; WOMEN; ENGINEERING AND ENGINEERS; LABOR; PUBLIC OPINION; DISCRIMINATION 

ORGANIZATION: FOUNDATION FOR WOMEN (82%) WOMEN OF SILICON VALLEY; COMMUNITY FOUNDATION FOR WOMEN; COLLABORATIVE ECONOMICS 

PERSON: FLYNN, LAURIE J 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001 



650 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
Amid San Francisco's dot-com ruins, companies find some real estate bargains.

BYLINE:  By Todd Lappin 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
MARK JARRELL can hardly believe his good fortune. As the founder and president of Meeting Architects, a corporate events planner, Mr. Jarrell giddily points out the features that made his company's new office in San Francisco's Mission District so irresistible. The office came wired for data and phone service. The space is protected by a $25,000 security system. The building is fully up to code, including recent seismic upgrades mandated by law in this earthquake-prone city. And though he declined to reveal the rent, he said it was eminently affordable.
 "We just showed up and plugged in our computers," Mr. Jarrell said. "The shell was here; all it needed was some paint and a little imagination." 
 A little more than a year ago, as the Internet boom reached its peak, soaring rents and a dearth of available properties led some to conclude that more traditional service-based companies would soon be forced to abandon San Francisco in search of more affordable office space. But today, with the Nasdaq in the dumps and many Internet start-ups in the Dumpster, small businesses and nonprofit organizations are finding real estate jewels amid the architectural ruins of the dot-com craze. 
And this city, which has been such a powerful vector for new economy fervor, is reaffirming some of capitalism's oldest truths: the process of creative destruction is never-ending; change is the only constant, and the foundations of new companies are often built opportunistically upon the wreckage of the old.
This time last year, the vacancy rate was 3.6 percent in San Francisco's South of Market area, the former industrial area dotted with garage-style workshops where many start-ups set up offices. Today, according to Whitney Cressman, a commercial real estate brokerage firm, the vacancy rate is almost 20 percent. Rents in the district have dropped to $40 to $50 a square foot from $55 to $60 last year, and they are still falling. 
"All those millions of venture capital dollars left behind a legacy of beautifully built-out office spaces," said Bill Benton, a broker with CB Richard Ellis, a commercial real estate company. "There are now some great opportunities for other companies to move in."
Meeting Architects has moved into an industrial-style building in the working-class Mission District, which adjoins South of Market and creates a real estate corridor sometimes known as Multimedia Gulch. As a symbol of the Internet boom's lasting impact on the city's urban fabric, the building neatly encapsulates many of the tensions and transformations of recent years.
It was constructed in 1920 on the end of a block bounded by Folsom, Shotwell and 20th Streets. Neighborhood legend has it that the one-story brick structure was originally home to a small Ford Motor parts factory. During the mid-1990's, half the space that Mr. Jarrell's company now calls home was leased to a small airport shuttle-van service. (Picture the set of the old TV sitcom "Taxi," with even more trash littering the floor.) The other half of the 18,000-square-foot space was leased by an auto body repair shop.
Then came the dot-com boom. After the building was sold in 1999, rents began to climb. The shuttle service and body shop moved out. Extensive building modifications began as the two once-separate work spaces were joined to create a single business site, complete with new steel reinforcement girders, cut-pile carpeting and a wheelchair access lift. Redcart.com, an e-commerce technology provider, moved into the freshly converted office in May 2000 under a five-year lease with a five-year option to renew.
"I thought I was good for 10 years," the property owner, Joseph Imbelloni, recalls. "Everything seemed to be going great." 
Then one day Redcart.com called to say that the company could not afford to pay the rent. Instead of lasting 10 years, the start-up lasted only six months.
By November, Redcart.com was gone. To fill his suddenly vacant building, Mr. Imbelloni searched frantically for a more stable tenant. Given the current economic downturn, Mr. Imbelloni says he was lucky to find Mark Jarrell and Meeting Architects. 
Founded five years ago, Meeting Architects today employs 30 people, and Mr. Jarrell is undaunted by the slowing economy. Companies may not be throwing lavish parties, especially not like the "launch" extravaganzas once favored by profligate dot-coms, but established businesses still need to hold meetings and employee-incentive events. "Our business is a little flat," Mr. Jarrell said. "But it's still good, and we'll weather through."
Even now, portions of Meeting Architects' new office betray clues of its previous occupants. In a part of the space that was once used by Redcart.com's chief executive, a board is still eerily covered with scribbled business plans. Redcart's departmental mailboxes hang empty from a wall, and two shopping carts -- both painted red -- are suspended from ceiling rafters. 
Some of the other legacy items have been pressed back into service. 
Desperate to liquidate assets, Redcart sold roughly $30,000 of computers, furniture and Herman Miller Aeron desk chairs for $13,000 to Mr. Jarrell. To lock in the price, Meeting Architects was required to pay for the equipment in cash within days, before Redcart's founder hurriedly moved back to New York.
"When I looked at the situation, I saw that it provided a way for me to grow my business, practically for free," Mr. Jarrell said. 
Nevertheless, the sudden demise of many Internet companies will mean an awkward period of transition for some once-bustling San Francisco neighborhoods. "It was a challenge for the community when so many industrial buildings were being converted for office use, but now it's a challenge the other way," said Kenneth T. Rosen, chairman of the Fisher Center for Real Estate and Urban Economics, which is part of the Haas School of Business at the University of California at Berkeley. "It takes time for the real estate market to adjust to such rapid changes in the economy."
Indeed, with commercial real estate in turmoil, brokers report that many potential tenants are waiting on the sidelines in hopes of securing even more favorable leases, on the assumption that the vacancy rate will continue to climb in the months ahead. 
But not everyone is waiting. In preparation for a move to a large South of Market office space that was formerly occupied by Pets.com, eTranslate, a company that adapts products and Web pages for international markets, recently organized a Chinese lion dance ceremony to purge any evil spirits that the doomed pet supplies e-tailer may have left behind. 
"Nine months ago, we were looking to move out of San Francisco because we just couldn't find any space," said Janet Heppner, chief executive of eTranslate, which is moving from a Mission District office at a converted dry cleaning plant. The former Pets.com office came complete with all the fittings and meeting rooms her growing company needs -- for less per square foot than Ms. Heppner was paying at the previous site. "We couldn't have touched this a year ago," Ms. Heppner said. 
The current slump is also creating new opportunities for nonprofit organizations like the Bay Area School Reform Collaborative. It recently moved into the space formerly occupied by Flycast Communications, an Internet advertising sales agency now owned by CMGI.
Some new tenants cannot help but feel a little uneasy about the grim circumstances that have made such fabulous bargain-hunting possible. "It's humbling," said Mr. Jarrell, as he gazed at a conference room filled with several of the Aeron chairs he acquired from Redcart.com. "I feel bad for the company that used to be here because I know first-hand how much hard work it takes to get where they were."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Meeting Architects was able to lease office space in the Mission District of San Francisco that was formerly occupied by Redcart.com. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (88%); STARTUPS (87%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); EARTHQUAKES (76%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (66%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RENTING AND LEASING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (58%); FORD MOTOR CO (53%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (58%); FORDP (PAR) (53%); F (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (53%)

PERSON: LAPPIN, TODD 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001 



651 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: In Hollywood, New Hopes Perhaps Born In Desperation 

BYLINE:  By RICK LYMAN 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 22 

 BODY:
After six weeks of closed-door negotiations and a six-week break to allow union officials to consult with members, representatives of Hollywood's major studios and television networks were back in talks last week with the industry's writers, scrambling to reach agreement on a new three-year contract before the current one expires at midnight on May 1. 
 Nothing has changed in either camp's positions during the break, yet there has been a growing sense of hope in Hollywood that the long-feared writers' strike -- and a potentially more devastating strike by actors on June 30 -- might not occur after all. 
 "Everyone is saying now that there will not be a strike," said the director Renny Harlin, who is preparing for the release of "Driven," his latest action film. "I hope they are right." 
As the negotiators again retreated behind closed doors beginning on Tuesday, issuing only bare-bones announcements at the end of the day, it was difficult to tell how much progress was being made, though reports from those close to the talks said the two sides were steadily slogging through a long list of unresolved issues.
"I wouldn't say we are optimistic," said one person involved in the talks. "But I would say we are hopeful."
The chief point of contention is residuals -- the amount of money paid to writers for subsequent use of their scripts after a movie's initial run or a television show's initial broadcast.
The writers are demanding increases in residuals in areas like videocassettes and sales to foreign markets, while studios and networks are contending that shrinking profit margins for films and television programs make it impossible for them to be too generous in these areas.
What was clear at the end of the first week of the resumed talks was that the negotiators were focusing their attention first on ancillary issues, saving residuals for later -- perhaps closer to the May 1 deadline. If there is no settlement by then, and progress is being made, the talks might continue past the deadline. Or perhaps, officials said, one side or the other will put a final offer on the table in the closing hours and force a resolution or a strike. 
Part of the basis of the growing optimism has been the increasingly conciliatory tone from officials on both sides. This effect was heightened when two of the top negotiators -- John Wells, the president of the Writers Guild of America, and Jeffrey Katzenberg, the DreamWorks studio executive -- were conspicuously seated together in the front row of a recent Los Angeles Lakers game, acting chummy. 
On Thursday, Mayor Richard J. Riordan of Los Angeles issued a report he had commissioned from the Milken Institute and Sebago Associates to measure the economic effect of a strike in Hollywood, and its predictions were dire: More than 80,000 lost jobs, a 44 percent rise in unemployment in the county and more than $4 billion in lost income if the strikes lasted five months, the length of the previous writers' strike, in 1988.
"A strike," the mayor warned, "will represent a U-turn, back to the days of the 1990's recession, with high unemployment and business closures."
The talks recessed on Friday afternoon and are scheduled to resume on Monday morning. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); WRITERS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%) MOTION PICTURES; TELEVISION; LABOR; STRIKES 

ORGANIZATION: SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (59%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TELEVISION & RADIO ARTISTS (59%) SCREEN ACTORS GUILD; WRITERS GUILD OF AMERICA; ALLIANCE OF MOTION PICTURE AND TELEVISION PRODUCERS; AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TELEVISION AND RADIO ARTISTS 

PERSON: JEFFREY KATZENBERG (52%) LYMAN, RICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001 



652 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
2 Chemical Companies Seen In Talks for German Unit
OM Group and Ferro, two specialty chemical companies, are close to an agreement to acquire DMC2, the metals and catalyst unit of Degussa of Germany, for about $1.1 billion, executives close to the negotiations said.
 If the deal is completed, it would be a boon for OM and Ferro, which will become some of the largest manufacturers of cobalt materials in the world. The acquisition would also give OM and Ferro a foothold in the fuel cell industry as well as precious metals. Page C2. 

Lawsuits Keep Ramseys in Spotlight
In the four and half years since JonBenet Ramsey was murdered, her death has metamorphosed into an all-out rumble of libel, slander and First Amendment civil lawsuits. No fewer than 10 lawsuits, claiming more than $250 million in damages, have been filed either by or against tabloid and mainstream media, local police, Ramsey neighbors and employees and JonBenet's family. C8.

Music Labels' Tentative Online Steps
In announcing that they will roll out two online music subscription services this summer, the five biggest record labels have whet the appetites of consumers and investors. But the lack of follow-up details shows the labels' lack of clarity about how to master new technology in a way that balances their business needs with the expectations of music consumers. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C7.

Dot-Com Offices at Bargain Rates
With many Internet start-up companies closing shop, small businesses and nonprofit organizations in San Francisco are finding real estate jewels amid the architectural ruins of the dot-com craze. New Economy. C3.

CNN Planning a Digital Archive
CNN, with the help of I.B.M. and Sony Electronics, plans to convert the 115,000 hours of videotape it has collected the last 21 years into digital form, creating a computerized database that will make it easier to find, retrieve and distribute news clips. C8.

Internet Executive's Next Challenge
James Rutt, who rankled competitors with the elbows-out style he used as a top executive at the Internet address registrar Network Solutions and later VeriSign, has left the company to pursue his latest enthusiasm: complex adaptive systems. The term refers to the art of programming software that builds itself through processes mimicking evolution's engine of mutation and natural selection. C3.

Women Make Gains in Silicon Valley
A new survey indicates that working women have made substantial headway in Silicon Valley and that career optimism is high. But despite the gains, it is still a man's world. C3.

Space Shrinks for Book Reviews
As newspapers look for ways to cut back in a slumping economy, space is beginning to shrink for book reviews. C8.

Newsweek Ends Russian Alliance
Newsweek is ending its partnership with Itogi, the Russian weekly newsmagazine, after dissident shareholders seized control of the magazine and fired its staff. C8.

The Fine Lines of Advertising
The 83rd annual management conference of the American Association of Advertising Agencies closed with spirited discussions of how difficult it can be to walk various fine lines: between being valued by clients and being deemed dispensable, between tastefulness and indecency, between creativity and self-indulgence and between profit and loss. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C11.

European Airlines in Alliance Talks
Air France and Alitalia, Italy's largest airline, confirmed that they are in talks that could lead to a possible alliance. C7.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 10,579.85 up 452.91Nasdaq composite -- 2,163.41 up 201.9810-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.29% up 0.13The euro -- $0.9026 up 0.0098The dollar -- 122.56 yen down 1.10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (91%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); LIBEL & SLANDER (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (78%); WOMEN (78%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (72%); WOMEN WORKERS (72%); NEW ECONOMY (72%); DOMAIN NAMES (72%); INTERNET AUDIO (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); STARTUPS (71%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (67%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (64%); EVOLUTION THEORY (60%); POLICE FORCES (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: EVONIK DEGUSSA GMBH (58%); OM GROUP INC (58%); SONY ELECTRONICS INC (53%)

TICKER: OMG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325199 ALL OTHER BASIC ORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (58%); NAICS331492 SECONDARY SMELTING, REFINING & ALLOYING OF NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT COPPER & ALUMINUM) (58%); NAICS331420 COPPER ROLLING, DRAWING, EXTRUDING & ALLOYING (58%); NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (58%); SIC3399 PRIMARY METAL PRODUCTS, NEC (58%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (58%); NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3631 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001 



653 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1899 words

HEADLINE: A Struggle For Control; 
Local TV Fears the Networks' Power

BYLINE:  By BILL CARTER 

 BODY:
Even at the beginning of broadcasting, in the 1920's, when pioneers like William S. Paley built CBS out of an assemblage of local radio stations, the relationship between networks and their local affiliates contained too many conflicts to ever be called a beautiful friendship.
 Still, mutual interest and lucrative profits have kept networks and stations in league for the better part of a century. But now, in the television industry, regulatory changes, increased competition, technological advances and consolidation of power by the networks and big station owners, have gradually pushed networks and their affiliates all the way to opposite corners of the ring. 
 For the moment at least, both sides have their dukes up. And the odds at ringside favor the heavyweights, the networks, mainly because of the deregulatory zeal of the Republican administration in Washington, which the networks hope will end federal rules that prevent any network from owning stations whose total audience exceeds 35 percent of the country's population. Just last week, the Republican-led Federal Communications Commission gave the major networks a separate victory, repealing a rule that had prevented ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC from owning smaller networks. The immediate victor was CBS's owner, Viacom, which will be allowed to retain its stake in the UPN network. 
The network-affiliated stations -- except those the networks already own, of course -- argue that increased power by the networks would mean even fewer locally generated programs, besides news, for viewers in the typical American city. They also see their profits being eroded by reductions in the commercial time the networks leave available to them to sell local advertising.
And the networks are rapidly ending the compensation fees they have traditionally paid to the stations that carry their programming.
"What the networks have said in a very high-handed way is, 'We're going to do it our way,' " said Alan Frank, the president of Post-Newsweek Stations, which owns six network-affiliated stations around the country. Mr. Frank is also chairman of the National Affiliated Stations Alliance, a group representing more than 600 stations that filed a petition with the F.C.C., accusing the networks of a litany of sins.
The networks argue that there have been fewer and fewer local programs and that viewers much prefer to watch what the networks have to offer anyway. The networks, also noting the continued loss of their audience to cable TV, say they need to accrue more control to be able to afford the high-quality shows the viewing public expects of them.
"We need a rational business model," said Alex Wallau, the president of ABC. We don't want to squeeze the affiliates to death. We just want to be able to breathe."
Running TV stations is by far the most profitable segment of the broadcasting industry. Many stations attain profit margins of 50 percent, while the network business, with all its programming costs, runs much leaner. And yet the affiliates point out that the networks are parts of their much larger parent conglomerates, which generate profits in many other ways, including the ability to create and own hit shows that can make hundreds of millions of dollars in syndication.
Tensions between the networks and the stations that carry their programming are hardly new. For years both sides have had sometimes fractious negotiations over issues like how much the networks would pay affiliates to carry their programs; how many pre-emptions of network programs the local stations would be allowed to make, and what rights of exclusivity over programs the affiliates would retain. But the stations' petition with the F.C.C. last month was the closest thing yet to an open declaration of war.
The filing accused the networks of intimidating stations to keep them from pre-empting network programming to run local or syndicated shows on which the stations can sell all of the advertising. They accused the networks of dictating to station owners whom their stations can be sold to. And in the case of the Fox network, the stations said Fox had forced them to cede control of the addition channels they will gain as they change their broadcast signal from analog to digital.
The list included so many accusations of rules violations, abuses of power and extortionate negotiating tactics that one public-rights advocate, Jeff Chester, executive director of the Center for Media Education, said the charges "read more like a request for a RICO indictment," a joking reference to the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act.
The networks responded with a vociferous denial of the charges, calling them unfounded and irresponsible. CBS said it would no longer even talk to its affiliate advisory board because the station owners had not warned the network the petition was coming. CBS subsequently resigned from the National Association of Broadcasters over the trade group's support for retaining the 35 percent coverage cap on station ownership. CBS will not be the only one sitting it out when the broadcasting industry meets in Las Vegas this week for the N.A.B. convention: Fox and NBC earlier resigned over the ownership-cap dispute.
So far ABC has opted to stay in the N.A.B., although the network's main Washington lobbyist, Preston Padden, emphasized that ABC would work "to push the radicals out" of the trade association.
The networks contend that the stations' protest is being driven by station groups with their own self-interest, primarily groups controlled by newspaper companies, like Post-Newsweek, which is owned by the Washington Post Company, Gannett, Hearst, Scripps-Howard and The New York Times Company.
"It's a lobbying ploy to create a delaying mechanism by making a lot of noise," said Bob Wright, NBC's president. Like many other network executives, he says the stations are trying to delay the growing move toward ending the longstanding practice of networks' paying affiliates to carry their programming. As for the affiliates' efforts to retain the 35 percent coverage cap, he said those arguments contradicted the newspaper companies' own lobbying to end a separate regulation -- the one that has long prevented newspapers from owning a paper and a TV station in the same city.
Mr. Frank, of the Post-Newsweek station group responded by saying that the newspaper cross-ownership change was supported by stations with and without newpaper ties.
As for the compensation issue, another station group head, who insisted on anonymity, said: "The networks are poisoning the relationship over this. They just want to run up the score."
"Comp," as compensation is known, is considered a noxious anachronism by every network, but a birthright by every station. The issue of whether the networks should continue paying stations to run their programs has been at the center of what Mr. Chester, the public-interest advocate, refers to as "the roiling tumult in the broadcasting industry" for more than 15 years.
Initial efforts to cut back compensation were undone in 1994 when Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, looking to upgrade Fox, raided a group of affiliates mainly aligned with CBS. That set off a frenzy of escalated comp payments to keep other stations from defecting, costing ABC, CBS, and NBC each from $150 million to $200 million every year since.
"In 1994 we had to pay a lot more money for comp," said Randy Falco, the president of the NBC network. "Nobody was talking about these issues then," he said of the stations. "They all took the money and went out the door giggling."
The networks have been moving to scale back compensation ever since. But the most significant event, network and station executives say, took place last year in San Francisco. NBC, outbid in its effort to acquire KRON, the NBC affiliate there, shunned the winning buyer, Young Broadcasting, and picked a station in San Jose to become the network's new Bay Area affiliate. The switch will take effect next year.
Granite Broadcasting, owner of the San Jose station, KNTV, viewed the NBC affiliation as so valuable that it stood the customary comp arrangement on its head -- agreeing to pay NBC $380 million over 10 years. "They came in and made an offer," Mr. Falco said. "What should I have done? Told them to go away?"
That was the most prominent example yet of "reverse comp," but it has not been the only one. Networks will not talk about their own deals with specific stations. But one industry executive, without identifying the companies, said at least two other major networks had stations paying reverse comp -- one of them with more than 20 stations paying fees.
"The reason why everyone is so mad," Mr. Falco said, "is that Granite monetized the value of an NBC affiliation."
From the stations' side, the NBC San Francisco-San Jose deal smacked of the kind of cut-throat negotiating they say the networks now routinely do. "San Francisco is an example of how far the networks can go," Mr. Frank said. "This is what the networks are doing with the 35 percent ownership cap. What will they do if that gets raised?"
The networks are confident that the momentum will continue in their favor. They point to two recent court decisions, one rejecting a 30 percent national population cap on ownership of cable systems and the other granting Viacom, parent of both CBS and UPN, a waiver to continue holding stations that put it over the 35 percent limit. And they are especially optimistic about support from the new F.C.C. chairman, Michael Powell, who has been outspoken about ending what he calls outdated regulations on the media industry.
"I don't think the N.A.S.A. filing is going anywhere," Mr. Wright said, referring to the F.C.C. petition by the national affiliates' group. He said the personal nature of some of the charges made the filers "sound like they're from the flat-earth society."
Mr. Frank, meanwhile, said he hoped Mr. Powell would back enforcement of justifiable regulations. In any case, he said, petitioning the F.C.C. was worthwhile because "at least we'll know what the rules are."
Christopher Dixon, a media analyst with UBS Warburg, called the rules limiting networks' station ownership "totally antiquated in a world of 200 metered cable channels." He said the networks had to find economies of scale through ownership consolidation to compete with cable companies," which have two revenue streams -- subscription fees and advertising.
"The economy has swung to the cable business," Mr. Dixon said. "The networks have to improve their economy through consolidation."
But Mr. Chester, of the Center for Media Education, said further consolidation would be cause for alarm. "Something larger is afoot here," he said. "This has long-term consequences for democracy and journalism. One of the major reasons for the original Communications Act was the idea of localism. That very localism is in doubt now. The local stations need some help. The power of the networks has to be restrained."
Despite the emotionally charged issues, neither side is prepared to walk away from the other -- not with so much money still concentrated in the station business.
"We have an interest in each other's economic health," said Mr. Wallau at ABC. "We have owned-and-operated stations and we want to insure that the stations' business remains a good business. We're broadcasters. They're our affiliates. We need each other."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 25, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Monday with an article about the growing conflict between television networks and their affiliated stations misstated the number of stations owned by CBS. It is 16; 35 is the combined total for CBS and affiliates of UPN; both are units of Viacom.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bob Wright, NBC's president, says stations are lobbying hard to delay a move by the networks to end the practice of paying affiliates to carry network programming. (Allan Barnes for The New York Times); "What the networks have said in a very high-handed way is, 'We're going to do it our way,' " said Alan Frank, the president of the Post-Newsweek TV station group. (United Press International); ABC's main Washington lobbyist, Preston Padden, says the network wants "to push the radicals out" of the National Association of Broadcasters, the trade associations. (ABC) Chart: "Network Reach"How the four major TV networks rank by number of stations. Affiliate stations owened by networksABC: 10NBC: 13CBS: 35FOX: 33 Network's total affiliatesABC: 217NBC: 217CBS: 213FOX: 187(Sources: Nielson Media Research; Paul Kagan Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); POPULATION SIZE (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); PETITIONS (50%) TELEVISION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (55%); POST-NEWSWEEK STATIONS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BROADCASTERS (59%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (53%) SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

PERSON: CARTER, BILL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001 



654 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 665 words

PERSON: Dragoslav Avramovic 

HEADLINE: Dragoslav Avramovic, 81, Economist With the World Bank 

BYLINE:  By PAUL LEWIS 

 BODY:
Dragoslav Avramovic, a retired World Bank economist who stabilized the Yugoslav economy, died Feb. 25 in Rockville, Md. He was 81. 
 Dr. Avramovic served briefly as the director of the central bank under President Slobodan Milosevic, then became a leading opposition figure before the 2000 elections, which toppled Mr. Milosevic. 
 He had retired from the World Bank in 1978, returning to his native Yugoslavia in 1992 to advise the Milosevic government, while keeping a home in Rockville. His country's economy had been brought to its knees by United Nations sanctions and inflation was out of control. 
Dr. Avramovic's success at stabilizing the economy, introducing a sounder currency and bringing down inflation led to his appointment as governor of the Yugoslav Central Bank and brought some improvement in living standards.
But in 1996 President Milosevic dismissed Dr. Avramovic after he refused to print more money to bail out bankrupt state industries and instead urged further market-related economic reforms. As he left he issued a biting public denunciation of the government's economic policies and memorably denounced President Milosevic as "an aggressive coward" who bullied opponents while ducking hard decisions.
"I wasn't attacking the government for fun," he said later. "This wasn't over personalities or whims. These were serious issues for the state."
Dr. Avramovic's success in defeating inflation made him one of the most popular figures in the country and he quickly emerged as symbolic leader of the quarrelsome array of opposition parties facing Mr. Milosevic. But his capacity for action was impaired by his age and failing health. 
In 1996, at 76, he stepped down a month before federal elections as leader of the Zajedno (Together) coalition of opposition parties, citing age and ill health. The United States was rumored to have withheld support from him, though, because it wanted Mr. Milosevic to remain in power to ensure that the Dayton peace accords of 1995, ending the civil war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, were fully carried out. 
Four years later, on the eve of the September 2000 elections, Dr. Avramovic was still widely seen as one of only two people in the country capable of defeating Mr. Milosevic in a free vote, the other being Vojislav Kostunica, of the Democratic Party of Serbia. 
In August another prominent opposition politician, Zoran Djindjic, a leader of the anti-Milosevic coalition known as the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, said his organization would offer either Dr. Avramovic or Mr. Kostunica as its candidate.
In the end, Dr. Avramovic decided not to run, once more citing age and ill health, and Mr. Kostunica emerged victorious, replacing Mr. Milosevic as president of a much shrunken Yugoslavia. 
Dr. Avramovic was born in Skopje, the capital of Macedonia. He earned a doctorate in economics from Belgrade University and worked first for Yugoslavia's Central Bank and Finance Ministry while lecturing at the university. 
In 1953 he joined the staff of the World Bank in Washington, becoming chief economist for Latin America and the Caribbean and ending up as director of the development economics department. 
He resigned in 1978 to become director of the secretariat of the Independent Commission on International Development Issues, the so-called Brandt Commission, set up to study relations between the developed and the developing worlds, with the former German chancellor Willy Brandt as chairman. He also worked for the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development in Geneva.
Dr. Avramovic wrote extensively on economic issues, particularly on international indebtedness, commodity markets and the industrialization of developing countries.
He is survived by his wife, Marija Avramovic of Belgrade and Rockville, his son Zoran of Rockville, and two daughters, Mila Avramovic of Belgrade and The Hague, and Dora Avramovic of New York. Word of his death was delayed because the family took his body back to Belgrade for burial.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Well-wishers greeted Dragoslav Avramovic in 1999 at a rally in Yugoslavia. His banking policies made him a respected opposition leader. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit) 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

INDUSTRY:  SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS; 

AVRAMOVIC, DRAGOSLAV; LEWIS, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (92%) BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SERBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%)

CATEGORY: Economics 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001 



655 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Essay; 
Of Human Wrongs

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The "Commission on Human Rights" is the group of 52 nations that decided in Geneva last week that China -- while torturing and killing members of the Falun Gong, raping Tibet's culture and imprisoning foreign nationals -- was not to be censured in any way.
 At the same time, the U.N. group, turning to the uprising of Palestinians as well as Hamas-Hezbollah terrorism, found Arabs blameless and called on Israel -- which is not permitted to sit on the commission -- "to desist from all forms of violation of human rights." Because diplomatic hypocrisy rarely rises to such a level, let's examine who stood with whom on these votes. 
 Supporting the United States on the attempt to urge China to stop its oppression were most European nations, Canada and two South American countries. 
Approving China's brutal internal crackdown were its Communist allies in Vietnam and Cuba, Arab and African bastions of democracy from Libya and Syria to Algeria and Liberia, as well as China's ally Pakistan and intimidated neighbor India.
Abstaining -- knowingly blocking pressure on China -- were a dozen nations including Mexico (Vicente Fox thinks of business first) and Colombia, where paramilitary forces literally chop up rebels with chainsaws (and whose president, Andres Pastrana, constantly has his hand out for U.S. aid). 
Here is the anti-Israel lineup: 50 nations. This includes France, where Jacques Chirac is fearful of speaking out against Syria's occupation of France's abandoned ally, Lebanon. 
Only two nations refused to blame Israel for Arafat's war: the United States and Guatemala. (Who's the Israeli ambassador to Guatemala? Make that man foreign minister.) The 50 nations siding against Israel called for "international protection" of the warring Palestinians, thereby encouraging Arafat to continue his violence.
Against this background consider Israel's response to Arafat's escalation to mortar attacks on Israeli villages. If mortar shells landed on U.S. soil from Canada or Mexico, and either of those governments tacitly approved such attacks, the U.S. would take military cross-border action to wipe out the mortar positions and end the bombardment. 
That's what Ariel Sharon ordered. The punitive raid was not "reoccupation" of Gaza land that Israel wants no part of. The local Israeli commander, the morning after that night's response, asked for a delay until nightfall to more safely withdraw his troops; perhaps to protect them, he then said his force might stay "days, weeks, months."
That prompted the usual State Department even-handwringing from Colin Powell, criticizing both mortar escalation and the "excessive" raid. Worse, to Israelis, their subsequent pullback appeared to be on American orders, which I'm told it was not. 
That miscommunication gave Sharon a black eye in the media, but in the following day's phone conversation with President Bush, the prime minister recalled that as a general he also had occasionally said the wrong thing to the press; sources here confirm there was no acrimony in the call. (Sharon is "Arik" to Powell, "Ariel" to Bush.)
His strategy, it seems to me, is to apply the Powell Doctrine of disproportionate military response to the warring Palestinian leadership -- while now easing economic pressures on the Palestinian people. The hope is to build bottom-up pressure on the swaggering warriors from suffering working people. 
That requires a fierce answer to Arafat's undeclared war. As Americans painfully learned in Vietnam, when one side fights to win and the other side fights to settle, the side fighting to win wins. 
Sharon will end the war when he convinces Arafat -- or the silent Palestinians misled by him for so long -- that a war against Israel cannot be won. Nothing silences guns like the prospect of no victory. If this is not the time for peacemakers, history can still honor the war-enders. 
To begin the war-ending process, Israel needs an unwavering ally in the Security Council and in Geneva to demonstrate to Arab dictators and queasy abstainers that no "international force" of human-rights hypocrites will intervene to help defeat the Jews. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TORTURE (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TERRORISM (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); HEZBOLLAH (76%); HAMAS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); ARMED FORCES (65%); RIOTS (62%) PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); HEZBOLLAH (57%); HAMAS (57%) UNITED NATIONS; UNITED NATIONS COMMISSION ON HUMAN RIGHTS 

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (50%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (50%) SAFIRE, WILLIAM; ARAFAT, YASIR; SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST CHINA (90%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%) ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); GUATEMALA (93%); SYRIA (92%); FRANCE (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); TIBET (92%); MEXICO (92%); CANADA (92%); LEBANON (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); VIET NAM (79%); LIBERIA (79%) ISRAEL; GUATEMALA

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001 



656 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Another Paper Leaked on Tiananmen; Killings Still Gnaw at China's Leaders 

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 22 

 BODY:
Another secret document from the violent crushing of pro-democracy demonstrations in 1989 has been smuggled out of China, one of several recent signs that the deadly crackdown around Tiananmen Square continues to haunt the Communist Party and its top leaders. 
 The document was written from prison in September 1989 by Bao Tong, a top party official who was jailed for sympathizing with the student demonstrators. It was his official response to the charges against him and includes new details of high-level decisions in the frenetic weeks before the army shot its way to Tiananmen Square on June 4, 1989, killing hundreds and leaving an unresolved national trauma. 
 Mr. Bao was an adviser and speechwriter for Zhao Ziyang, the Communist Party chief before the crackdown. Mr. Bao was held in solitary confinement for seven years on charges of leaking state secrets and now lives in Beijing under intense surveillance. Mr. Zhao has been under house arrest since mid-1989. 
Mr. Bao's statement, which was kept in a few secret archives, was recently smuggled out by an unidentified official still in government, who wrote in a short introduction that he wanted "to provide further evidence toward revealing the truth about June 4." Mr. Bao himself was not apparently involved in the release, but others verified the authenticity of the document. 
The statement appears to corroborate some important details in "The Tiananmen Papers," a collection represented to be secret documents from 1989 that were published in the United States last year in English and last week in Hong Kong in the original Chinese. Many Western and Chinese scholars have concluded that the documents are largely genuine, although their authenticity cannot be entirely proved. 
Explaining his own actions in the weeks before his arrest on May 28, 1989, Mr. Bao describes some of the same secret meetings of party leaders that were first mentioned in the collection. The document also provides new details of the bitter schism between Mr. Zhao and Mr. Bao on one side, who proposed dialogue with the students, and Prime Minister Li Peng on the other, who argued that the movement had to be crushed to save the party. 
Mr. Li remains the No. 2 official in the Communist Party. Though he is expected to retire next year, he and fellow conservatives are especially anxious to head off any reappraisal of the 1989 decision to call out the military. 
President Jiang Zemin, the party chief -- who was brought in to replace the ousted Mr. Zhao -- has defended the crackdown as necessary to preserve stability, apparently hoping the issue would fade away. 
But the government's seemingly frantic response to publication of "The Tiananmen Papers," as well as recent statements by some retired officials, suggest a continuing and deep anxiety within the party. 
Mr. Jiang and other leaders have tried to dismiss the collection as largely fabricated. At the same time, security agencies appear to be searching hard for officials or scholars who may have helped the anonymous compiler obtain the papers. 
The party leaders also oversaw preparation in December of a four-and-a-half-hour videotape, "Test of History," which upper-level officials around the country have been required to watch. People who have seen it say the video justifies the repression in 1989 as necessary to fend off chaos provoked by hostile Western forces and to permit China's subsequent economic advancement. They say the film claims unconvincingly that only 86 people were killed, many of them soldiers.
In another clear sign of lurking dissent, the March issue of the Hong Kong magazine Open had a scathing article on the events of June 4, 1989, by a former chief editor of The People's Daily who had also been a top official of China's legislature. 
Mincing no words, the retired official, Hu Jiwei, who is 85 and lives in Beijing, praised the appearance of "The Tiananmen Papers" for exposing the "conspiracy" behind this "monstrous crime," and he attacked the late Deng Xiaoping, the power behind the scenes in 1989, as "Chairman Mao's good pupil." 
Mr. Hu had long been known for his objections to the use of force against the demonstrators, but this was his most direct public attack yet. He has received verbal warnings to back off, but apparently his advanced age has protected him from arrest.
Mr. Bao, in his statement in September 1989, admitted he "made a serious error of not siding with the Central Committee," but denied the central charges: that he had leaked the decision to impose martial law in advance of the crackdown. 
He particularly denounced a People's Daily editorial of April 26, 1989, which harshly condemned the demonstrators and was published without the approval of the party leader, Mr. Zhao. Mr. Bao suggested that the editorial virtually ordained a violent clash because it caused the students to redouble their opposition. 
"In my heart, I believed that we made a terribly wrong move," he wrote from his cell of the decision to declare martial law. "I was afraid that we would be trapped in a very difficult situation, 'riding a tiger, hard to get off.' " 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMUGGLING (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRISONS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (78%); HOUSE ARREST (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); RIOTS (71%); CONSERVATISM (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL) 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK; BAO TONG; ZHAO ZIYANG 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (95%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) CHINA; TIANANMEN SQUARE (BEIJING)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001 



657 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
Dissecting The Mania On 44th Street

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
NOT since Frank Sinatra played the Paramount has Broadway seen anything like this. Not for "A Chorus Line," "The Lion King" or "Phantom of the Opera" has there been such hoopla. Someone in the crush around the box office actually said (inevitably) that we were witnessing a "Miracle on 44th Street." 
 A miracle? Yes. New York has gone nuts, gaga, over "The Producers," the new musical comedy version of Mel Brooks's 1968 movie. The show at the St. James Theater was already a hit in previews, won breathless, superlative, over-the-top reviews after its opening on Thursday night and seems to have become an overnight phenomenon. 
 It's as if this Bette Davis of cities, stubbornly world-weary, has decided to give itself over to a bit of spring madness, to an old-fashioned excitement that reminded many of the heyday of Broadway musicals like "My Fair Lady" and "Hello, Dolly."
"Is this fantasy land or what?" asked Brad Oscar, one of the show's actors, who came to gawk at the box-office line on West 44th Street the morning after the opening. 
There they were, outside the St. James, about 120 people waiting on the street (despite the Web and Telecharge) for at least two hours for the privilege of paying a record top ticket price of $100. Even before the reviews, the lines weren't much shorter, nor was the price much cheaper ($91).
"I smelled it. I just knew it was going to be huge," said Ray Sachs, publisher of Preservation magazine during his wait the afternoon of the opening. 
Could this musical version of an old cult film be that extraordinary?
Nothing in New York is ever allowed to be merely what it seems to be (maybe because it rarely is), so there is also a long line of theories to explain this smash. Maybe the exuberance is defiance in the face of a slowing economy, people say; maybe it's reflecting the city's innate character.
"It's part of that special New York thing," theorized Paul Libin, producing director for Jujamcyn Theaters, which owns the St. James. "New Yorkers are so tuned in, they have to be there. When you hear about a great bakery on Bleecker Street, next day you can't get in."
Another theory turns on ethnic sensibility, i.e., Jewish humor. Or narcissism: Broadway's unique love of ogling itself, or hustling New Yorkers admiring hustlers (in this case, Broadway producers producing what they dearly hope will be a flop musical about Hitler).
Many in line said they had come for tickets because they loved the 33-year-old movie (though it was not this kind of smash). Some attributed their enthusiasm to the show's stars, Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick. But star power didn't ignite "The Man Who Came to Dinner," Mr. Lane's last outing, or "Taller Than a Dwarf," Mr. Broderick's last play.
Could it be the extensive advance publicity? The weekend before the opening, Mr. Brooks appeared on "60 Minutes," and as the lead author of a lead article in The New York Times's Arts & Leisure section, with an Al Hirschfeld rendering of him as a theatrical divinity.
ADVANCE buzz can be counterproductive if a show is not well received on opening night. But of course "The Producers" was, with the reviews validating the word-of-mouth from previews and rave notices from a brief run in Chicago. 
In the opinion of Thomas Meehan, co-author of the show's book with Mr. Brooks, this hit scratches an itch. "People were looking for this," he said on Friday. "Going to the theater has been increasingly a chore. The shows have been highly intellectual, very serious. Here, you can spend a night laughing your head off."
Down the line stood Joyce Gold, a ticket buyer who conducts walking tours of New York City. She speculated that people were yearning for a "less homogenous New York," one before the carbon-copy Starbucks and Victoria's Secrets, when everyone knew what a carbon copy was. "I give tours of 20 neighborhoods, and they are all beginning to look alike," said Ms. Gold. "This stands out from the crowd."
As does Broadway. It's old-fashioned, and musical comedy with a vaudeville accent is its invention. Broadway meant, and means, live performances -- not tapes or discs -- with orchestras in orchestra pits, coughs in the audience, and, if you must, smoking during intermissions. So maybe nostalgia has something to do with this phenomenon.
Or maybe, like Mr. Brooks, we overintellectualize, and "The Producers" is a case of spontaneous combustion, one of those unexplained conflagrations that make New York New York. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (89%); FILM (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); TICKET SALES (77%); MUSIC (72%); BAKERIES (71%); THEATER (58%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%) THEATER 

PERSON: PURNICK, JOYCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: PRODUCERS, THE (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001 



658 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: Clash Delays Health Plan For the Poor 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 22 

 BODY:
A dispute between state and federal officials has delayed efforts to provide health insurance for hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers, and officials say it will be at least several more months until the program begins.
 Gov. George E. Pataki and his aides blame the Clinton administration, which they say dallied for months over the state's request to use Medicaid money. 
 But the record makes clear that both sides have caused delays. New York has refused to give the federal government the reassurances it demands on the use of Medicaid money. And New York lawmakers decided against embarking on the program piecemeal, as other states have done, holding up the entire effort until all of it can go into effect. 
The experience of other states, like New Jersey, shows that states can extend coverage to thousands of people far more quickly than New York has done.
In December 1999, Mr. Pataki and legislative leaders announced an ambitious new effort by the state to cover low-income working people whose employers do not provide insurance and who earn too much to qualify for Medicaid, the federal insurance program for the very poor. The program was supposed to go into effect on Jan. 1 this year, and state officials predicted that it would insure up to a million people.
The core of the proposal was Family Health Plus, which would allow the working poor to buy coverage through existing programs like Medicaid, paying much lower premiums than commercial insurers charge. Poor children in the state are already covered by another program.
It was supposed to help people like Dawn Bowers of Woodside, Queens, one of more than 3 million New Yorkers with no health insurance. She earns $430 a week at a small printing shop in Manhattan, supporting herself, her husband, Jose Quiles, and their 2-year-old daughter, Ashley.
Since a 1996 operation to remove ovarian cysts, she has suffered almost constant pain. But she has not seen a doctor or taken prescribed medication, because, she said, she cannot afford either one. "When I heard about Family Health Plus, I thought, 'That's it, that's what I need,' " she said. "But when I try to sign up, they tell me I can't yet."
The governor and his aides say the fault lies with the Health Care Financing Administration, the federal agency that approves uses of Medicaid money. "A lot of these people from H.C.F.A., the Clinton people, they just weren't interested in doing this for us," said Michael McKeon, the governor's spokesman.
But legislators and health care advocates accuse Mr. Pataki's Republican administration of intransigence. "I really have to question the governor's seriousness about getting this thing done," said Richard Kirsch, of Citizen Action, a liberal advocacy group.
Assemblyman Richard Gottfried, a Democrat and chairman of the Health Committee, said Mr. Pataki may be stalling because of the prospect of a recession and declining revenues -- a view endorsed privately by some Republican lawmakers. "As long as the program isn't up and running, that's hundreds of millions of dollars that they're banking rather than spending," Mr. Gottfried said.
The Pataki administration strenuously denies such charges. "It's obviously a major commitment of ours," said Robert Hinckley, deputy commissioner of the Health Department. "We've put a tremendous amount of time, effort and money into it. The governor has taken a personal interest, telling us to get it done."
The program's importance extends to politics as well as health care. Family Health Plus, like the environmental conservation programs Mr. Pataki supports, appeals to many voters in a state where Democrats outnumber Republicans 5 to 3. And failure to get the program running could be used against him in a potentially tough re-election contest next year.
The program cemented Mr. Pataki's relationship with Dennis Rivera, leader of 1199/Service Employees International Union, the 150,000-member health care workers' union, who helped negotiate Family Health Plus. The governor would love to keep the union, which has the state's most potent political operation, neutral next year, or even win Mr. Rivera's endorsement.
Mr. Rivera did not return calls seeking comment. Other officials of the union generally agreed with the governor's faulting of the federal government, but conceded that there had been problems in Albany, too.
New York's program was to be financed in part by the national lawsuit settlement with the tobacco industry and partly by doubling the state's tobacco tax. But to insure childless adults, the state sought to use Medicaid money, which requires a waiver from the Health Care Financing Administration.
There is little disagreement that the federal agency was slow to respond. Many states grew frustrated with the Clinton administration's lethargic responses to Medicaid waiver requests, and the new secretary of health and human services, Tommy Thompson, has vowed to speed up the process.
"We didn't hear anything from them for three months, literally not a word," Mr. Hinckley said. "Then they gave us a long list of questions, and we submitted answers, and then silence again for three months."
Before granting such a waiver, the federal agency requires that a state show that the program will not result in increased Medicaid costs. The Pataki administration has refused to make that promise.
"When we first saw New York's application, our reaction was: 'Is this a joke? Did you mean for this to fail?' " said a Health Care Financing Administration official who insisted that his name not be used, for fear of offending the Bush administration.
The agency, where top jobs have all turned over with the change of administrations, would not make an official available to talk for the record about New York's case.
At Mr. Pataki's insistence, the state law that created Family Health Plus said the state would ask to be exempted from the federal requirement that its program not increase Medicaid costs. The law did not say what would happen if that request was denied, which it was.
Pataki administration officials say the state law still prohibits them from giving the assurances the federal agency sought. Health care advocates, state legislators and officials at the Health Care Financing Administration dismiss that position, saying that the state was free to reverse course once the original request was denied.
"The legislation certainly did not say that unless you get a yes answer, you drop the whole thing," Mr. Gottfried said.
New York also took months to supply Washington with financial information to support its application, and federal and state officials have traded accusations over that.
Mr. Hinckley said that talks with Washington have moved faster since President Bush took office, but that the state still does not expect an answer before summer.
One other state, Arizona, requested the same type of waiver New York did, but it gave the standard assurances on Medicaid costs. Federal health officials concede that New York's case was inherently more complex, but they note that Arizona's program became law in November, and its waiver was granted in January.
Medicaid would pay for only one part of New York's program. The state could have embarked on pieces of the plan without the federal waiver, like covering adults with children. Other states have done this, but New York's state legislation prohibited the start of any part of the plan until all pieces were in place.
When New Jersey created a similar program, Family Care, it sought a simpler, more common federal waiver. Yet even taking that into account, New Jersey moved much faster than New York. The governor at the time, Christie Whitman, signed the program into law last July, and people began receiving coverage just four months later. It has insured more than 80,000 people.
Well before the program began, New Jersey printed applications and signed people up so they could be ready as soon as it went into effect -- something New York has not done. New Jersey asked to use federal money to insure parents, but while waiting for an answer, it insured those people using state money. And New Jersey decided to use only state money to cover childless adults.
Meanwhile, New Yorkers like Ms. Bowers can only wait. "It's not so much me I worry about, it's my little girl," she said. "I've got to get healthy for her." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); MEDICAID (91%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INSURANCE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); FAMILY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (73%); CHILD POVERTY (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (62%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (61%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (50%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001 



659 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1610 words

HEADLINE: In Some Immigrant Enclaves, Loan Shark Is the Local Bank 

BYLINE:  By DEXTER FILKINS 

 BODY:
Juan Luis, a Washington Heights businessman, built a sprawling empire of fried chicken stands in the 1970's and 80's, financing much of it with money borrowed from loan sharks at punishing rates of interest. When much of the business collapsed, the loan sharks took his home in the Dominican Republic and most of his money.
 Yet just last August, when Juan Luis needed $10,000 to pay a tax bill on what remained of his business, he telephoned two of his most reliable loan sharks, bargained for the best interest rate and arranged for a drop at one of the 10 chicken stands in the city that he still owned. The next day, the moneylender double-parked in front of the restaurant and tossed a paper bag full of $20 bills onto a table in front of him. 
 "Bloodsuckers," says Juan Luis, who withheld his last name for fear of retribution. "But everyone in the community uses them." 
This is banking for thousands of Latinos in immigrant neighborhoods in New York and across the country, where loan sharking and other unregulated lending is thriving, often within sight of commercial banks. Unlike the loan sharks of yesteryear, with links to the mob and reputations for brutality, the "prestamistas," as they are known here by the Spanish term for moneylender, often constitute a mainstream institution, financing everything from bodegas to discos for the poor and the middle class alike.
While many prestamistas lend money at illegal interest rates, some compete directly with mainstream banks. They are fast, reliable and often understanding, and in many of New York City's Latino neighborhoods, the prestamistas are the lenders people turn to first.
"Loan sharks are our biggest competitors, and they're killing us," said Dennis Reeder, executive director of the Washington Heights and Inwood Development Corporation, a nonprofit group that makes loans to small businesses.
Mr. Reeder says the vast majority of his clients have borrowed money from loan sharks, often at interest rates as high as 10 percent per week, and his organization often lends money to help people to pay them off. In a study of the Washington Heights area, Mr. Reeder's group concluded that there was a local market of $10 million a year for business loans under $10,000, and that the demand was being met almost entirely by the prestamistas.
"There is a lot of money to made here," said Tony, a prestamista who says he has financed dozens of businesses in Washington Heights and the Bronx. In an interview, Tony refused to reveal his real name.
Informal types of lending like loan sharking have been around for years, but the volume and variety of recent immigration have brought an array of new types.
Korean immigrants, for instance, make wide use of a system called kye (pronounced kay), in which members contribute to a savings pool and take turns borrowing. Some Latino communities use a similar system known as tanda or sociedad.
In many communities, the moneylenders ask fewer questions and prove remarkably flexible when a borrower cannot pay.
"These informal lenders are providing a valuable service," said Jay Rosengard, a faculty member at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, who has studied informal financial networks in immigrant communities. "People will pay the interest rates, because they want the access to credit." 
Sometimes the lawless financial world turns violent. In May 1998, two well-known moneylenders in the Korean community were murdered as they sat in their Lexus in a Queens neighborhood. A Korean grocer who had allegedly owed the couple $34,694 was charged in the murder, but a jury acquitted him after his lawyer argued that there were many others who may have had a motive to kill.
In New York's Latino neighborhoods, some people say they are following the tradition of their homelands, where the poor often have no banks and little money to save. They say they are reluctant to use regular banks because of questions about their immigration status. Some say they do not keep the detailed financial records needed to qualify for a loan.
One major reason for the prestamistas' popularity may be the lack of success many Latinos have had in trying to borrow from banks. Jose Sanchez recently borrowed $70,000 from a loan shark to take over the lease on a small grocery store in the Kingsbridge section of the Bronx. Mr. Sanchez says he was turned down for loans at Citibank and Chase several years ago, and does not bother trying anymore. 
"I don't like the prestamistas, but I use them," he said.
In the world of the impoverished immigrant, where a big telephone bill can shatter a month's budget, the speed and certainty of loan shark money often matter more than the high interest rate. Maira Gonzalez, a waitress at a restaurant in Washington Heights, recently borrowed $2,000 from a local prestamista to pay for a trip to the Dominican Republic, where her three children live. The weekly interest is 5 percent.
"Nobody wants to borrow money, but we are poor people and sometimes we have to," said Ms. Gonzalez, who earns about $250 a week.
New York law caps interest rates on most bank loans at 25 percent per year, 16 percent on person-to-person loans. The going rate among loan sharks in some Latino neighborhoods is 2 to 5 percent per week -- or about 104 to 260 percent per year.
Loan sharking in New York's Latino neighborhoods appears to be flourishing despite law enforcement efforts. Daniel J. Castleman, the chief of the Manhattan district attorney's investigations division, said loan sharking prosecutions were traditionally spun off from inquiries into illegal gambling and often associated with organized crime. Loan sharking in New York's newly arrived immigrant communities, he said, is a different phenomenon and hard to pursue.
"There is an ingrained money lending business," he said. "I've always understood that it worked pretty well. People respect the rules. We don't get a lot of reports about intimidation."
The business of private lending is also thriving despite the presence of large banks, which have made mixed efforts to penetrate the city's poorer neighborhoods. Some public interest groups say bank mergers in recent years have diminished the number of banks and the quality of services in poor neighborhoods, making it harder for people to borrow money and all but forcing them into the hands of the loan sharks.
The big banks say that they have made efforts to penetrate the city's poorer neighborhoods, but that they face formidable obstacles -- cultural and financial -- to attracting customers. Federal banking records show, for instance, that the number of bank loans to businesses with revenues of less $1 million per year in poor areas of the Bronx nearly doubled from 1996 to 1999 and that the total dollar value of those loans rose by about 140 percent, to nearly $38 million.
Another reason may be that some prestamistas are willing to drop interest rates for their best customers. Mr. Sanchez, who recently borrowed $70,000 for the store in the Bronx, got the money at a 20 percent annual rate for being a loyal client of his prestamista.
The loan sharks portray themselves as ordinary businessmen providing a service where their mainstream competitors fear to tread. Tony, the loan shark active in Washington Heights, says that he and his two partners have lent millions of dollars to mostly Dominican clients to help start area businesses. One of his biggest loans, he said, was $2.5 million to start a supermarket in Washington Heights.
"We do about eight deals a week," said Tony, dressed in an expensive suit. "Every one of them has been denied at a bank."
Tony, who spoke during an interview at a friend's office in Washington Heights, said his "bank" was worth about $20 million. He said that he and his partners disguised their business behind a legitimate mortgage brokering business, and that they reported little of the income they made from the loans. Tony deals only in cash and usually charges 5 percent a week.
Tony, like other prestamistas interviewed, said that he did not use coercion to force repayment from defaulting clients.
Instead, he said that much like a bank, he and his partners secured collateral to seize if the loan failed -- often property the borrower is trying to lease or buy. Tony said that was usually accomplished by holding the title of the property until the loan was repaid. Such an agreement may not be legally enforceable, he said, but the practice works, even if sometimes it is accompanied by threats.
"We're not going to break any legs," Tony said, "but we have taken property back."
Carlos, a South Bronx prestamista who says he lends no more than $3,000 to any one person, keeps a safety deposit box full of collateral like gold chains and wristwatches. To ensure that his clients do not disappear, Carlos says he often holds a borrower's immigration papers until the loan is repaid.
"I know my people," he said. "They get some money, they'll go to Santo Domingo, especially at Christmas, spend it all and come back with nothing."
Even with loan sharking thriving in the city's Latino neighborhoods, leaders of local nonprofit groups say they try to coax people into banking's mainstream.
Milton Balcacer, who operates a tiny grocery store on the Grand Concourse in the Bronx, said he borrowed $14,000 from prestamistas over the years, and paid back $28,000 with interest. Then, in 1999, Mr. Balcacer saw an ad in a local Spanish-language newspaper for Neighborhood Trust, a nonprofit credit union in Washington Heights, from which he has borrowed several thousand dollars to spruce up his store.
The interest rates are wonderfully low, he says. "I'll never use the prestamistas again."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tony, a loan shark in Washington Heights, said he dealt only in cash and usually charged 5 percent a week. Property often is used as security. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (87%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); RESTAURANTS (69%); REFUGEES (68%); INTERVIEWS (67%) BANKS AND BANKING; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; LOAN-SHARKING; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

PERSON: FILKINS, DEXTER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (95%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (73%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001 



660 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Trade Zone for Americas Reaffirmed as Summit Ends
Pledging equal support to the ideals of democracy and free trade, 34 leaders of the Western Hemisphere closed a summit meeting in Quebec by reinforcing their commitment to a vast free trade area of the Americas and vowing to ensure that its benefits are shared by all 800 million people in the Americas. A1

Crew Says It Protested Attack
Civilians hired by the C.I.A. to fly an American surveillance plane that tracks suspected drug-runners in Peru tried on Friday to stop the Peruvian Air Force from attacking a plane carrying American missionaries, United States officials said. Two people died in the attack. A1

A Vote Snubs Yugoslavia
Montenegro took a step toward independence, with early results in parliamentary elections showing majority support for parties that favor breaking from Yugoslavia and giving the coalition headed by President Milo Djukanovic a narrow lead. A3

Istanbul Hotel Under Siege
A group of armed men stormed the luxury Swissotel in Istanbul and took hostages in an apparent protest against Russian military action in Chechnya. There were reports that Turkish authorities had entered the hotel and were negotiating with leaders of the armed group, but police officials at the scene refused to confirm the reports. A3

Suicide Bomber Strikes in Israel
A Palestinian suicide bomber killed an Israeli doctor and wounded several dozen people in central Israel. The first suicide bombing in nearly a month detonated nail-studded explosives as a bus opened its doors to pick up passengers. A7

New Focus on '67 Israeli Action
Israel's attack on the intelligence ship Liberty, which killed 34 American sailors and wounded 171 others, was deliberate, according to "Body of Secrets," a new book on the National Security Agency. Israel has long claimed that the attack on the ship, which was monitoring the 1967 Arab-Israeli war, was accidental. A7

Colombia Drug Lord Captured
Luiz Fernando da Costa, Brazil's biggest cocaine dealer, was captured by the government after a desperate race to freedom with help from rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or F.A.R.C., top army officials said. A10

NATIONAL A11-13

Pentagon Panel Urges Halt In Army Howitzer Program
A panel has recommended canceling production of the Army's new mobile artillery system, the Crusader, along with an array of other weapons programs, officials said. The recommendations are expected to become a test of the Bush administration's pledges to reshape the military. A1

Prescription Help for Elderly
States are creating and expanding programs to help low-income elderly people pay for prescriptions, even as Congress appears to be floundering in efforts to add drug benefits to Medicare. At least 26 states have approved drug assistance plans. A1

Civilians and Submarines
The program in which civilians go on excursions aboard warships is hugely popular with the Navy brass and is likely to continue virtually unchanged despite the submarine Greeneville's collision with a Japanese ship, military officials say. A1

In Cincinnati, Hurrying to Heal
Amid aftershocks of racial strife, the city is trying to right itself by moving quickly toward mediation of a suit accusing the police of abusing blacks. "In terms of achieving improvement and restoring some trust," said Mayor Charlie Luken, above, "I view the racial profiling lawsuit as an important vehicle to do that." A11

Tentative Pact for Delta Pilots
Delta Air Lines reached a tentative contract agreement with the union representing its pilots. The deal would make the pilots the highest paid in the industry, people involved in the talks said. A13

Freedom Prayers in Miami
One year after federal agents raided a house in Little Havana to remove the Cuban boy Elian Gonzalez, vigils kept alive the hopes of many that one day the boy, and all others in Cuba, would be free again. A11

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Canadian Space Triumph
Two spacewalking astronauts installed a massive robot arm on the International Space Station. It was Canada's biggest day in space: the first Canadian spacewalker hooking up the Canadian-built arm that will serve as a construction crane. A13

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

New Breed of Loan Sharks Gives Banks Run for Money
Loan sharking and other unregulated lending is thriving among Latinos in immigrant neighborhoods. Unlike the loan sharks of yesteryear, with links to the mob and reputations for brutality, these "prestamistas" are fast, reliable and often understanding, financing everything from bodegas to discos. "Loan sharks are our biggest competitors, and they're killing us," said a spokesman for a nonprofit group that makes loans to small businesses. A1

Proms Come Out of Closet
Two gay proms scheduled on Long Island this spring are expected to attract about 300 students. The events -- among the first of their kind on Long Island -- are the latest in a string of similar celebrations to emerge in a growing national trend that has recently spread from big cities to suburbia. A1

ARTS E1-8

SPORTSMONDAY D1-10

Knicks Win Game 1
New York defeated the Raptors 92-85 in their first playoff game. D1

Devils Oust Hurricanes
The Stanley Cup champions eliminated Carolina 5-1 in Game 6 in the opening round of the playoffs. D1

OBITUARIES B6-7

Giuseppe Sinopoli
The Italian conductor and composer known for individualistic performances in a wide range of Romantic and modern repertory collapsed on the podium during a performance of Verdi's "Aida" at the Deutsche Opera in Berlin. He was 54. B7

Jack Haley Jr.
The Emmy-winning producer and director who mined a rich vein of Hollywood nostalgia in films like "That's Entertainment" was 67. B6

Dragoslav Avramovic
The retired World Bank economist who stabilized the Yugoslav economy and then denounced President Slobodan Milosevic was 81. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Price War Tied to Pentium 4
Intel is expected today to introduce its 1.7-gigahertz Pentium 4 microprocessor, the fastest chip yet for personal computers, selling it for less than half the initial price of its predecessor. Intel plans to use the new chip as a weapon against its chief rival in a price war. C1

Chemical Expansion Is Seen
OM Group and Ferro, two specialty chemical companies, are close to a deal to buy DMC2, the metals and catalyst unit of Degussa of Germany, for about $1.1 billion, executives close to the negotiations said. C2

Digital News Library
CNN plans to create a digital archive of its 115,000 hours of videotape, creating a computerized database that will make it easier to find, retrieve and distribute news clips. C8

Women Gain in Silicon Valley
A survey shows that women have made substantial headway in Silicon Valley and that career optimism is high and the percentage of female electrical engineers is four times the national figure. But despite the gains, it is still a man's world. C3

Russian Connection Cut
Newsweek is ending its partnership with a Russian newsmagazine after dissident shareholders seized control and fired its staff. C8

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: The search for an AIDS vaccine; spring training in the mayor's race; Andres Martinez on the new economy.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E6
Crossword E4
Public Lives A11
TV Listings E7
Weather B8

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (75%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (75%); AIR FORCES (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); MILITARY VESSELS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); NAVAL VESSELS (71%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (70%); COCAINE (70%); APPROVALS (69%); POLICE FORCES (69%); MEDICARE (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (62%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (62%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (87%) ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); COLOMBIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); TURKEY (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (90%); BRAZIL (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001 



661 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 75 words

HEADLINE: Corrections 

 BODY:
 A front-page article on Thursday about the effect of the Federal Reserve's cut in interest rates misstated a finding by Blue Chip Economic Indicators, a newsletter based in Alexandria, Va. On average, economists surveyed by the newsletter believe there is a 38 percent chance the country will enter a recession in the next year. (The 38 percent figure did not refer to the number of surveyed economists who believed that there would be a recession.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (88%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CORRECTION STORIES; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY:  SIC6011 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK; 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001 



662 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Intel Product Could Set Off A Price War 

BYLINE:  By CHRIS GAITHER 

 BODY:
Intel plans to use its newest, fastest microprocessor as a weapon against its chief rival, Advanced Micro Devices, in what could be a price war delighting consumers but cutting into each company's bottom line.
 Intel is expected today to introduce its 1.7-gigahertz Pentium 4 microprocessor, the fastest chip yet for desktop personal computers, for $352 in volume purchases by PC makers. That is less than half the introductory price of the chip's predecessor, which Intel released only five months ago. Accordingly, the company plans deep discounts on the rest of its Pentium 4 line. 
 Intel and Advanced Micro, which hold a virtual duopoly in the desktop PC microprocessor market, have said they wanted to avoid a price war. Yet neither appeared ready to back down. 
Intel said it had improved its production efficiency and would continue to pass along those savings to customers, as it undertakes an aggressive rollout for the new chip in hopes of luring PC users to replace their older machines. For its part, Advanced Micro has said it intends to match or beat Intel's pricing at each speed level at which the companies compete.
Both proclamations spell trouble for investors, who have watched the companies' profit margins as the economy slows. Indeed, in its forecast last week for the current quarter, Intel cited the accelerating rollout of its Pentium 4 line as a prime reason for shrinking gross margins.
The $352 price for Intel's 1.7 gigahertz model apply to chips bought by the thousand. Beginning next week, Intel said, it would discount the slightly slower 1.5 gigahertz version, which it introduced in November for $637, to $256. The 1.3-gigahertz chip, released in November at $332, will cost $193, Intel said.
"The objective is to stimulate PC demand and strengthen the Pentium 4 product line," said Mark Edelstone, managing director of semiconductor research for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, who had predicted the discounts. "These price points will make that happen, but there's a cost associated with that." 
Quarterly PC sales in the United States declined for the first time ever the last three months, according to market research firms. Intel, based in Santa Clara, Calif., said last week that it expected sales to flatten out in the current quarter and begin creeping upward again in the second half of the year. Intel sees the Pentium 4 as its strongest chance to tempt consumers and corporations to upgrade their computers. 
Though many other factors contribute to overall computing speed, consumers generally buy PC's based on the megahertz of the microprocessor, known as clock speed. Round numbers appeal most strongly to buyers, and Advanced Micro became the first mass producer to reach the one-gigahertz mark with its Athlon chip in March 2000. 
Intel countered with a one-gigahertz Pentium 3, but the chip's design hit a performance ceiling there. In a disastrous introduction last summer, Intel released the 1.13-gigahertz Pentium 3 but was forced to recall the line because of a design flaw. Intel also failed to meet demand for its chips, in large part because of a shortage of memory components among its suppliers.
Advanced Micro took advantage of Intel's troubles to gain market share. In the first three months of 2000, Intel held 82.3 percent of the market share, compared with Advanced Micro's 16.8 percent, according to Mercury Research Inc., a market research firm in Scottsdale, Ariz. By the beginning of April this year, Intel had dropped to 77.5 percent, with Advanced Micro holding a 20.8 percent share. 
But after a troubled few years, Mr. Ragsdale and other analysts believe that Intel is prepared to regain lost ground on the strength of the Pentium 4. The microprocessor relies on a new design, or microarchitecture, from the Pentium 2 and 3 lines. 
Some analysts question whether the Pentium 4 outperforms the Athlon, or even the Pentium 3, despite the higher clock speed. Nevertheless, Intel expects to break the 2-gigahertz barrier by this summer, when Advanced Micro expects to release its 1.5-gigahertz Athlon chip. By next year, when Advanced Micro intends to introduce its new microarchitecture to match the Pentium 4's clock speed, Intel expects to have produced more than 20 million Pentium 4 chips and switched to a less expensive memory system, further reducing the price of the Intel product line. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROPROCESSORS (92%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COMPUTER CHIPS 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (96%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (92%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTEL CORP; ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC 

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (96%); AMD (NYSE) (92%); AMD (FRA) (92%); MS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%) SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES; SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: GAITHER, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001 



663 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
A Four A's official suggests a defense for slow times; another looks at standards of taste.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

DATELINE: NAPLES, Fla. 

 BODY:
THE 83rd annual management conference of the American Association of Advertising Agencies, which ended here on Saturday, closed with spirited discussions of how difficult it can be to walk various fine lines: between being valued by clients and being deemed dispensable, between tastefulness and indecency, between creativity and self-indulgence and between profit and loss.
 "More and more clients are losing faith in the most fundamental principle of our business: run good advertising, sell more stuff, build brands better, make more profits," warned Brendan Ryan, the 2000-01 chairman of the association, known as the Four A's, who is the chairman and chief executive of FCB Worldwide in New York, part of True North Communications. 
 "They are underestimating the value of what we do," he added, "and focusing too much on what they pay us." 
That becomes particularly important, Mr. Ryan said, when the economic climate "gets tough" and marketers are tempted to cut ad spending, which has already taken place during the current downturn. "If advertising grows sales and profitability, why would you take your best weapon off the table when you need it most?" Mr. Ryan said. "It's like during a critical point in a baseball game, sitting down your .350 hitter and sending up a .100 hitter." 
He added, "Advertising is not being seen for what I think it is -- the single most powerful tool to produce profitable sales growth and to increase brand value, which in turn should further dramatically improve client profitability." 
Too often, advertisers will say "if we're having a good year, we'll advertise in the fourth quarter," Mr. Ryan said.
"Duh," he added. "The way to get a great year is to advertise in the first quarter." 
Agency leaders are partly to blame, Mr. Ryan said, because they "too rarely speak about effectiveness" of the campaigns their shops produce.
The industry must "work to develop methodologies to measure the effectiveness of our ideas," he said.
"As an industry," he said, "we have dodged measured accountability for too long. Creativity is at the heart of what we do, but creativity with a purpose, to sell our clients' stuff." 
Another speech focused on the issue of the boundaries of creativity in the realms of taste and decency as agencies seek to gain attention for their clients. Keith Reinhard, chairman at DDB Worldwide in New York, part of the Omnicom Group, said he titled his talk "De Gustibus Non est Disputandum," or "About taste we cannot argue," because it is "very much a matter of individual choice." 
Mr. Reinhard disclosed that the Four A's, along with other industry organizations, turned down a request in July made by The Wall Street Journal, owned by Dow Jones & Company, to draft guidelines "about the kinds of things that cross the line of decency and taste" as well as to consider forming a review board to screen advertising on those grounds.
O. Burtch Drake, president and chief executive of the Four A's, said that The Journal's concerns were prompted by frequent instances last year of "having to reject ads at the last minute" particularly from dot-coms that had hoped to stand out by being provocative.
Mr. Reinhard said that other industry organizations joined with the Four A's in agreeing "that such a plan was unfeasible." The groups were the Association of National Advertisers, the American Advertising Federation, the Magazine Publishers of America and the Newspaper Association of America. 
"Decency cannot be commissioned," Mr. Reinhard said, referring to the formation by Rudolph W. Giuliani, mayor of New York, of an arts decency commission. "We either choose to be decent, or we choose not to be." 
"I hesitate to attack my subject because so many emotional land mines lie just below its surface," Mr. Reinhard said. "On the one hand, I defend the right of anyone to say anything and show anything. I know that advertising needs to be provocative, and I freely acknowledge that the appeal of certain legitimate products is intrinsically sensual." 
On the other hand, he added, "too often, by the ads we honor, we send a message to our aspiring creative stars that is disturbingly clear," that "the more rude and shocking you can be," and the more "potty humor or prurient sex you can get away with, the more successful you'll be in advertising." 
"Taste and decency is a choice we have to make," Mr. Reinhard said. "And we can't keep copping out by saying that, compared with what goes on in prime-time television, or the movies or in the pages of magazines, we in advertising still look pretty good." 
"About taste we cannot argue," he added. "But as agency leaders, we're still on the hook for it." 
Mr. Reinhard offered five criteria by which to help make the right choice, including intent, relevance, context, artfulness and pride, as in "would I be proud to have my name associated with this ad or campaign?" 
He also called on the judges and juries of awards competitions to think twice about whether to "give the highest honors to the lowest appeals."
And he asked the journalists who cover the ad business to provide "clear-eyed critiques when we stumble into the gutter." 
Always glad to help, Mr. Reinhard. How about those two commercials your Chicago office produced for the last two Super Bowls for Bud Light beer, brewed by Anheuser-Busch? The spots had punch lines centered on the insertion of objects into the nether parts of an elephant and an annoying boss. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BASEBALL (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BRANDING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BRAND EQUITY (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%) ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); DOW JONES & CO INC (80%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%) AMERICAN ASSN OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES; WALL STREET JOURNAL 

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (84%); IPG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (80%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (80%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (80%)

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART; RYAN, BRENDAN; REINHARD, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001 



664 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1944 words

HEADLINE: Time Inc. Staff Adjusts Warily to Life Within AOL 

BYLINE:  By ALEX KUCZYNSKI 

 BODY:
Norman Pearlstine opened his speech at a private lunch last month for Time Inc. journalists with a joke. 
 The occasion was the Henry R. Luce awards, in-house prizes given to the magazine's reporters and editors. Gerald M. Levin, the chief executive of AOL Time Warner, praised Time Inc.'s journalism in a rousing and confident talk. Then Mr. Pearlstine, Time Inc.'s editor in chief, gave his speech. 
 Here they were sitting in the Rainbow Room, Mr. Pearlstine said, his eyes sweeping the Art Deco ballroom overlooking Rockefeller Center, and he could not guarantee that next year at these awards "we won't be on the eighth floor eating pizza." 
The remark did not lift spirits, Time Inc. executives said -- especially given the fact that the eighth floor of Time Inc. has traditionally been the gathering place for layoff announcements. And if it struck some as unseemly that the editor in chief would open an awards speech on a note like that, even jokingly, the notion of an awards luncheon that comes in paper boxes rather than on gilt-edged plates did not appear to many staff members to be beyond the realm of possibility. 
This year has been brutal to the magazine industry at large, but it has been especially tricky for Time Inc., the world's largest magazine publisher, which has not only had to flourish in a much tougher economic environment -- helping to prompt everything from staff reductions to the less draconian elimination of free Snapple at the office -- it has also been navigating the merging of cultures with America Online. 
Mr. Pearlstine, editor in chief since 1994, is perhaps the most visible symbol of the premerger world of Time Inc. Now, Time Inc. executives, avid as storefront fortune tellers scrutinizing tea leaves, are watching the moves of Mr. Pearlstine and his newly installed team of deputies, particularly Walter Isaacson, Time Inc.'s editorial director, as the company shifts strategic pace, ponders layoffs and, most important, tries to adjust to AOL's authority during an inopportune economic period, which only magnifies the rocky patches.
Merging with AOL has brought some encouraging news on the corporate front. The company reported last week that cash flow for the first quarter at the publishing division -- which includes the now more than 60 magazines at Time Inc. and the book publisher Little, Brown -- rose by 20 percent to $113 million and revenue rose 3 percent, to $966 million. (It was not clear, however, how much came from the performance of Times Mirror magazines, which Time Inc. bought in December.)
And the alliance with AOL appears to have had practical benefits for the magazine division. Jeremy Koch, Time Inc.'s senior vice president for consumer marketing, said AOL Web sites bring in 100,000 subscribers every month to add the total pool of roughly 42 million subscribers to all Time Inc. magazines. Assuming that figure remains steady, it would represent annually about 2.8 percent of subscriptions to Time Inc. magazines, a healthy and welcome boost, but a long way from having a major impact on the subscription outlook.
Merging with AOL in the current economy has also been demanding, and has some Time Inc. executives wondering if the influence of AOL will somehow chip away at the esprit de corps of Time Inc. 
"Time Inc. was always the old-fashioned part of the company, even when it was Time Warner, before AOL came along, and that was always O.K.," one senior editorial executive said. "And the mood now is that it is no longer cool to be old-fashioned."
Last month, Mr. Pearlstine -- under budgetary pressure from Time Inc.'s chief executive, Don Logan, who reports to Robert W. Pittman, AOL Time Warner's co-chief operating officer -- had to renegotiate contracts with several of the company's editors at large, Mr. Pearlstine's personally handpicked team of wideranging journalists. 
Those who have not resigned are now working for specific magazines, not roaming the Time Inc. landscape, as Mr. Pearlstine originally intended, as editorially savvy knight errants. The dismantling of the team of editors at large was seen in the company as a blow to Mr. Pearlstine's style of addressing problems by not limiting editorial budget and by drawing on a wide variety of talent. 
"I think there were some flaws in the way I envisioned the editor at large program," Mr. Pearlstine said last week in a telephone interview from his part-time home in Key West, Fla. "I think it works best if you attach people to specific titles." 
Life has changed in another way. Under Mr. Pearlstine, Time Inc. has introduced more than a dozen new titles, including the spectacularly successful In Style and Teen People, magazines Mr. Pearlstine worked on with special intensity and which have cemented his reputation as an editor with especially keen instincts in the mercurial business of start-up magazines. Now, the corporate strategy is to continue to build the company by buying already profitable magazines at prices whittled by the economy -- like the $475 million purchase of Times Mirror magazines, or the continuing negotiations to buy Business 2.0. 
"It is my observation that there is more of a bias for acquisitions and against start-ups," Mr. Pearlstine said. "I cannot myself define clearly whether that is a function of AOL and the merger or changed business conditions, or both." Mr. Pearlstine, however, said he in no way intends to stop developing new publications and that he sees special opportunities for titles that can draw on AOL's resources and users.
And Mr. Pearlstine has also had to baby sit the company's collective psyche at a time when the mood at the Time-Life building in New York is downbeat -- as it is at many magazine publishing companies, which are also laying off staff members. At Fortune, voluntary resignations have been sought from more than a dozen editorial staff members, and more are expected to be asked to resign next week. Significant staff cuts are also expected at Time magazine and Sports Illustrated, several Time Inc. executives said. The final number of staff reductions is expected to reach into several hundreds at Time Inc., the executives said. There are 13,000 employees at Time Inc. 
"It is a tougher year for us than the last few have been," Mr. Pearlstine said. "Every magazine has a different set of circumstances. Fortune put out something like 4,600 editorial pages last year, and this year it will put out somewhat less than that, so staff size is being adjusted to reflect that." 
Those adjustments have caused some Time Inc. employees and executives to say that they feel threatened by the nonjournalist culture of America Online and the pressure to meet AOL Time Warner's financial goals despite the forbidding advertising climate. One former Time Inc. executive said that he resigned because he began to feel that cuts advocated by executives from the AOL side were "eating into the muscle, not the fat of the company."
A current Time Inc. executive said that the perception at Time Inc. is that AOL executives view Time Inc. as "a turnaround operation" when it is, in fact, the most successful and largest magazine publisher in the world and one that has had sustained growth under Mr. Logan since 1993, when he became chief executive. 
AOL executives maintain a close watch on all the divisions; at Time Inc., as at AOL Time Warner's other divisions, the company's chief financial officer, Richard Atkinson, reports to Mr. Pittman on whether the division has met its targets for the week. If the division has not met its targets, J. Michael Kelly, the chief financial officer of AOL, calls in to talk specifics. A Time Inc. executive described the process as a kind of psychological jujitsu akin to a "good cop, bad cop routine" -- with Mr. Pittman in the good cop role and Mr. Kelly serving up the reprimands. 
Mr. Pearlstine said that since joining with AOL, the company's editorial vision and journalism had not changed. 
"In no way has the merger affected the commitment to editorial independence, nor has it restricted the journalism," he said. 
Mr. Pearlstine sits atop a decentralized structure, overseeing three deputies who in turn supervise the managing editors of each magazine: Mr. Isaacson, who oversees Time, People and Entertainment Weekly, as well as serving as a liaison between Time Inc., CNN and AOL; Isolde Motley, the corporate editor, who works with the women's magazines Real Simple, In Style and the Southern Progress titles; and John Huey, the former managing editor of Fortune, who now oversees Fortune and the other business magazines.
Mr. Pearlstine said he was working with Sports Illustrated and with the former Times Mirror magazines, which include Popular Science and Field & Stream. (The chief executive of the Times Mirror magazines, Jason Klein, resigned on Friday.) 
Mr. Isaacson, who worked with AOL in a previous role supervising Time Inc.'s new media in the mid-1990's, has seen his role expand. So while he has been known to proclaim his excitement to Time executives about his ability to put Nicole Kidman on the cover of People, he is also doing some of the tactical synergy work with other divisions that is seen as key to the combined company's future.
When In Style magazine executives wanted to start a new site on AOL and explore the possibility of a regular program on CNN, Mr. Isaacson made the inquiries with AOL and CNN. Because his scope is broader, his job is considered far more influential than that of his predecessor, Henry Muller, Time Inc. senior executives said. 
And since Mr. Isaacson was named editorial director of Time Inc. last November, Mr. Pearlstine's duties have also shifted and no longer include the direct supervision of Time magazine, the company's flagship title with a circulation of four million. 
Senior Time Inc. executives said that the new reporting arrangement, along with Mr. Pearlstine's diminished role at the company's core title, distances Mr. Pearlstine from the company's magazine editors and direct operations.
"My feeling is the opposite," Mr. Pearlstine. "It enables me to be involved with the things I want to be involved in, while creating some areas of responsibility for people that involve more than one title." 
He conceded that there have been stylistic differences between executives from both the Time and AOL sides.
For example, when executives from AOL and Time Warner drew up a mission statement for the joined company last year, Mr. Pearlstine said that a critical tension was the emphasis on the notion of "teamwork" in the original draft. He said that to him it suggested the possibility of a less solid line between editorial and business operations. 
"I had some concern as an editor that we want to be collegial and cooperative with business colleagues, but an important part of our mandate is to cover AOL and Time Warner, and that might be at odds with the teamwork mantra," he said. "It's one thing if you're General Motors, but this company has so many moving parts that coming up with values that are common to all of them is nearly impossible." 
Ultimately, Mr. Levin stepped in and added a clause about preserving editorial integrity -- "so I backed down on the teamwork issue," Mr. Pearlstine said. 
And Mr. Pearlstine said there was disagreement over whether to use the phrase "customers" or "readers" when it came to the audience for Time Inc. magazines. 
"Yes, readers are customers," he said, "but as an editor I like to think of readers from the editorial perspective, even if they are customers from the business perspective." 
In the final corporate mission statement that covers all the company's divisions, the term "customers" won.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Norman Pearlstine, editor in chief of Time Inc. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Time)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (77%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (74%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); INTERNET & WWW (68%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (65%); BOOK PUBLISHING (65%); CASH FLOW (64%); RETAILERS (62%) MAGAZINES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: TIME INC (95%); AOL INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: TIME INC; AOL TIME WARNER 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (85%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (85%) SIC2721 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS; SIC7375 ON-LINE INFORMATION SERVICES; 

PERSON: PEARLSTINE, NORMAN; ISAACSON, WALTER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001 



665 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1717 words

HEADLINE: Hevesi Counters His Quiet Image; 
Comptroller Picking More Fights With Giuliani

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
For eight years, Alan G. Hevesi has been the city comptroller, making him one of just three elected citywide officials in New York. He has a sprawling fifth-floor office in the Municipal Building with a view of a wide sweep of southern Manhattan, an 800-person staff, a $56.8 million budget, a security contingent and a car with a driver. He has, in short, the kind of platform that should make him a visible power in the daily political life of New York.
 But Mr. Hevesi, 61, a Democratic candidate for mayor, has hardly been visible these last seven years. By design or by nature, he has settled for the side of the stage during his two terms in office, tending to his job as the city's chief financial officer, but mostly steering clear of the daily dust-ups of City Hall. He has largely avoided encounters with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, even as his Democratic colleagues have enthusiastically chased them. 
 "I never elbowed my way into the cameras. I never did the Sunday afternoon press conferences," Mr. Hevesi said evenly the other day, adding, "My job is not to pick fights with the mayor or embarrass the mayor." 
His is a style that even supporters suggest seems more fitting for a circumspect comptroller than a man seeking to become the successor to this of all mayors. And it is his approach to public life that accounts for some initial difficulties he has encountered in his campaign, particularly among some blacks and liberal Democrats, as well as his rivals, who have described him as accommodating and too conservative to lead the Democratic Party back into City Hall.
These days, Mr. Hevesi suddenly seems to be everywhere. He is holding news conferences (even on Sundays), giving speeches, broadcasting television and radio advertisements, talking tough and tussling, almost daily, with Mr. Giuliani. He is the first candidate to have staged a full-fledged announcement speech. Mr. Hevesi has unveiled a campaign theme: that his experience as comptroller, a State Assembly leader and a college professor has given him the management and fiscal grounding to succeed Mr. Giuliani.
And through it all, Mr. Hevesi is trying to force a re-examination of his own history. He is seeking to alter two perceptions that have shadowed his candidacy: that he was, by design, too kind to Mr. Giuliani, in what many Democrats view as a calculated move to win the support of Giuliani voters; and that he was indifferent to the complaints of many black New Yorkers about Police Department abuses in minority neighborhoods.
After an announcement speech in which he declared that New York was heading in the right direction under Mr. Giuliani, Mr. Hevesi has since appeared to be recalibrating his views of the mayor.
He is now forever talking about the number of fights he has had with Mr. Giuliani -- and never mind that those he invokes might appear less than titanic. (The mild Mr. Hevesi likes to cite, for example, their quarrels over the use of watershed property in upstate New York.) Mr. Hevesi was just six seconds into answering a general question about his ideology during an interview in his office a few evenings ago when, suddenly, he dropped himself back in the boxing ring again.
"I've had a couple of dozen of fights with the mayor," Mr. Hevesi volunteered, upping the number from just three weeks earlier, when he announced at a Democratic forum that he and the mayor had had exactly 14 fights, "some of them pretty nasty." By Friday, at a news conference, he had put the total at "about 25."
Mr. Hevesi continued in the interview: "One in which we had a personal dispute -- in raised voices -- the mayor wanted to do a bond refunding that would save $150 million in that fiscal year, the remainder of the fiscal year, but would have cost us $50 million extra for eight consecutive years. . . ."
Well, you get the idea.
Some Democrats argue that Mr. Hevesi's decision to start an expensive television campaign this early was born of necessity, to tamp down the whispering -- fair or not -- about the viability of his candidacy, given early polls showing him in the single digits. It was, to a certain degree, a risky maneuver given that the city's campaign finance laws place a $5.23 million limit on primary campaign spending. He has spent about $1 million on television ads so far. 
But there are signs of this strategy's initial success, if measured only by the level of concern among his opponents. Mr. Hevesi is finding his way into the headlines, drawing mayoral attacks that raise his profile and that his supporters argue help to counter the notion that he has been too cozy with Mr. Giuliani. Some polls that Mr. Hevesi's opponents used to argue that his candidacy was collapsing now show him ticking up a bit. 
Mr. Hevesi's campaign so far reflects the extent to which he and his chief adviser, Hank Morris, believe that mayoral politics has shifted, after eight years of a Republican mayor who sought to demonstrate that he could govern a city that was once deemed ungovernable.
Accordingly, Mr. Hevesi has built his appeal less on political ideology and more on the nuts and bolts of his resume. His campaign is built on the motto "most experienced, best qualified," often clunkily shorthanded as M.E.B.Q. The phrase drifts through his television advertisements, speeches and even daily conversation.
"There are some ideological differences, some differences in issues," Mr. Hevesi said of his opponents. "But I think what we're talking about is a job that involves such complexity, in technical terms, in human terms, in understanding the diversity of this city, that I really -- we have this slogan: most experienced, best qualified. I believe it is accurate."
As an assemblyman for 22 years, Mr. Hevesi led the annual debate against the death penalty, was one of the earliest supporters of a gay rights bill and abortion rights, and supported the decriminalization of marijuana for possession of small amounts. But as a candidate for mayor, his emphasis is more on the simple fact of his legislative experience: "I'm the author of 108 laws," he says. He is more likely to mention his legislation forbidding emergency rooms to turn away patients than his opposition to the death penalty.
Like all the candidates, Mr. Hevesi identifies education as the top issue facing the city. He has called for longer school days and longer school years, as well as large salary increases and free MetroCards and parking for teachers (whose support he is actively seeking in this campaign) to recruit and retain high-quality educators. Mr. Hevesi said he was willing to consider a tax increase to pay the $500 million annual cost he put on his education program, though he said he did not believe it would be necessary.
Notwithstanding his expertise in the city's finances, Mr. Hevesi said he had not thought through what programs he would seek to cut should the economy take a downturn, other than to maintain the size of the Police Department and push ahead with increased school spending.
Mr. Hevesi's most difficult sledding so far has been on issues of race and police misconduct. He went out of his way during the 1997 mayoral race to announce that he would not support the Rev. Al Sharpton for mayor, a position that many Democrats viewed as self-serving and disruptive to the hopes of Ruth W. Messinger, who became her party's nominee against Mr. Giuliani.
Mr. Hevesi's television advertisements include a promise to put an end to racial profiling by the police, a pledge that has drawn a barrage of attacks from Mr. Giuliani. But unlike many other Democrats, Mr. Hevesi was largely silent during a series of incidents involving minority residents in which police misconduct was widely alleged. He was booed when he appeared in the Bronx at a memorial service for Amadou Diallo, an unarmed black man who was killed in February 1999 by police officers as he stood in the vestibule of his apartment building.
At Mr. Sharpton's headquarters in January, he drew shouts of astonishment as he sought to explain the evolution of his thinking on the issue. Mr. Hevesi told the audience that even immediately after the shooting, "I didn't get it. I got it later." 
In an interview, Mr. Hevesi said he was aware of sporadic police misconduct in the city before the Diallo shooting, but "didn't get" that it was "much more systematic in certain communities in the city -- the stop-and-frisk, the harassments and so on."
"I made a diligent effort to sort of educate myself," Mr. Hevesi said, explaining why he was more critical of the Police Department's handling of the issue after talking to black officials. "I also come from a generation, and an ethnicity, where this never happened to me. And maybe if I was 15 years younger and been at Haight-Ashbury, I would have had a different attitude. But you know, I always wore a tie."
To demonstrate his appreciation of the problem, Mr. Hevesi reverted to his role as city comptroller. "Let me be precise about what I intended and what I said," he said. "It wasn't that I didn't get police brutality. I'm the claims officer. We pay out claims -- and they are substantial."
And then, it was back -- once again -- to Mr. Giuliani, as the comptroller heatedly disputed the suggestion that his reticence on the issue might be an attempt to ingratiate himself with a popular mayor. "I've never had a meal with Rudy Giuliani," Mr. Hevesi said. "He's not my friend. He's not my political ally." 
In fact, Mr. Hevesi said, the only time he hears from Mr. Giuliani these days is when the mayor calls a news conference to denounce him. And Mr. Hevesi smiled at that.

PROFILE
Alan G. Hevesi

BORN Jan. 31, 1940; Manhattan
HOMETOWN Forest Hills, Queens
EDUCATION Forest Hills High School, 1957; Queens College, 1962; Columbia University, Ph.D. in public law and government, 1971
CAREER Professor, Queens College, 1967-1993; Professor, Fordham Law School, 1994-2000; Professor,Columbia School of International and Public Affairs, 1994-present
New York State Assembly, 1971-1993
New York City comptroller, 1994-present
FAMILY Married Carol Stanton, 1967; three children: Laura, Daniel and Andrew
INTERESTS The Giants, the Knicks, the Mets, history and reading and watching movies

Previous articles in this series examined the campaigns of Mark Green, Peter F. Vallone and Fernando Ferrer.

GRAPHIC: Photo: City Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi is running on competence and experience, and has the first ads this campaign season. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (75%); POLITICS (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); BUDGETS (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); RADIO ADVERTISING (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PRIMARIES 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (79%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; HEVESI, ALAN G (COMPTROLLER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001 



666 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Talks Tie Trade In the Americas To Democracy 

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: QUEBEC, April 22 

 BODY:
Pledging equal support to democracy and free trade, 34 leaders of the Western Hemisphere closed a summit meeting today by reinforcing their commitment to a vast Free Trade Area of the Americas, vowing to ensure that its benefits are shared by the hemisphere's 800 million people. 
 "There's no question in my mind that we have challenges ahead of us, but there's also no question in my mind that we can meet those challenges," President Bush said after he and the other leaders signed a closing declaration. 
 The 34 nations vowed to uphold democratic principles or risk losing economic and political support, even though some participants may have trouble meeting that standard.
Unlike the previous two Summit of the Americas meetings, where free trade and economic development were heartily embraced but soon ignored, the leaders proposed "an action plan" backed by billions of dollars in support from international financial institutions. 
The World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank committed more than $20 billion to strengthen democratic foundations in the Americas and prepare for free trade despite disparate levels of development. 
The leaders also agreed to release a draft of the agreement as it stands after seven years of talks, giving environmentalists, labor unions and others who have opposed it a chance to review it for the first time.
Mr. Bush and the other leaders clearly wanted the meeting to end on a concordant note, but sharp differences were evident. And in fact a brew of street protests, domestic politics and foreign policy merged for Mr. Bush during the weekend. News analysis, Page A6. 
For example, Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada made a pointed reference to the flawed elections last year in Haiti, which returned President Jean-Baptiste Aristede to power, when he said in closing remarks, "In some countries, democracy remains fragile." 
The leaders will send a fact-finding mission to Port-au-Prince later this year and pressed Mr. Aristede to act quickly to strengthen Haiti's democracy. 
President Fernando Henrique Cardoso of Brazil, who has expressed reservations about the proposed Free Trade Area of the Americas, did not participate in a closing news conference with Mr. Bush and seven other leaders.
And Venezuela refused to accept the schedule for putting the hemispheric trade pact into operation: no later than 2005. President Hugo Chavez said he lacked constitutional authority to instruct legislators to endorse a trade pact by a certain date. But since that same restriction applies to other leaders, he seemed to be reflecting deeper objections that may arise as negotiations continue. 
In contrast to the differences on display inside the meeting hall, Quebec itself was comparatively quiet after a night of the worst violence since the meeting began, but the police arrested more than 250 people.
But a combination of chilling rains and blistering winds seemed to keep most protesters off the streets as the meeting came to a close this afternoon. Within a few hours, the police started removing barricades.
Most of the invective poured out on the streets of this 400-year-old city this weekend was directed at the proposed Free Trade Area of the Americas, which would reduce or eliminate traiffs in all 34 nations, except for Cuba, which, not being a democracy, was not included. The leaders reaffirmed their support of the idea but they put forward a clause on democracy as their most important achievement. 
"Today we begin a new era in hemispheric participation," said Mr. Chretien in the closing remarks. 
The declaration signed today commits the nations to respond to military coups or anti-democratic actions, a mechanism that already exists within the Mercosur customs union of Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay.
The Quebec declaration says: "Any unconstitutional alteration or interruption of the democratic order in a state of the hemisphere constitutes an insurmountable obstacle to the participation of that state's government in the Summit of the Americas process." 
Invoking the clause could prevent a country from taking part in continuing talks on the free-trade pact or receiving support from the major international institutions.
"This is an affirmation of common will," said President Fernando de la Rua of Argentina, where the next summit meeting will be held, in 2004. Mr. De la Rua, whose country is still coming to terms with its epoch of military dictators, said pursuing a common goal of progress and the equitable distribution of prosperity in the Americas represents an unheralded step, a "continental vision." 
President Bush said meeting the hemisphere's leaders had helped him develop a better understanding of the most important issues in the part of the world he has pledged to make a priority. 
"It's clear to me that ours is a hemisphere united by freedom," Mr. Bush said. "It's a partnership that will help us tackle the big challenges that we all face -- the education of our children, H.I.V.-AIDS, protecting our environment. It's a strong partnership." 
This was Mr. Bush's first close-up view of the passions that can be inflamed by the proposed free trade area. But he said none of the images of tear gas or the powerful spray of water cannons had weakened his resolve to move a trade pact forward, nor would opposition to the deal at home.
He has said trade legislation will be introduced soon to give him the power to present a negotiated deal to Congress without the chance of its being amended before a final vote. The administration may try to round up enough votes to pass the measure by packaging it with smaller trade deals. "I am confident I will have tradepromotion authority by the end of the year because I think most people in the United States Congress understand that trade is beneficial to our hemisphere," Mr. Bush said at the closing news conference. 
Opponents say the images of street protesters clashing with the police this weekend have heightened awareness of the trade pact and will make it more difficult for Mr. Bush to garner the support he needs. 
"Regular folks in key Congressional districts who care about the environment now understand that a Free Trade Area of the Americas will imperil the environment at home and in other countries," said Daniel Seligman, director of the responsible trade program at the Sierra Club and a participant in an alternative People's Summit here this week. "Free trade was always going to be a tough fight for George Bush. What happened in Quebec will make it that much tougher." 
The meeting represented a foreign policy milestone for Mr. Bush, and a turning point in how Washington and its allies referred to another controversial trade pact, the North American Free Trade Agreement, which was started by former President George Bush. 
"When we started negotiating Nafta, people met in closed meetings and behind doors," said President Vicente Fox of Mexico. "You had a sense that people were ashamed of what they had done. But today we are proud of Nafta."
Mr. Bush and several other leaders now eagerly refer to the hemispheric trade proposal as an extension of Nafta, which has already produced results.
In separate talks after the summit meeting, the leaders of the Nafta countries discussed migration and a continental energy policy. Mr. Bush said oil from Canada and natural gas from Mexico said would help relieve energy supply problems in California and other parts of the United States. 
"It is important for our hemisphere to not only trade liberally, but to move energy throughout the hemisphere as needed," Mr. Bush said, "and it starts with the cooperation between Mexico, Canada and the United States."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 24, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the Quebec meeting of Western Hemisphere leaders misstated the name of the president of Haiti, the subject of implicit criticism by Canada's prime minister. The Haitian leader is Jean-Bertrand Aristide, not Jean-Baptiste Aristede.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A woman and her son pocketing empty tear-gas cans, reminders of violent clashes between anti-globalization protesters and the police. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); POLITICS (75%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); ELECTION FRAUD (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); LABOR UNIONS (51%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (51%); ARRESTS (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (69%)

ORGANIZATION: FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (84%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (69%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (69%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); HUGO CHAVEZ (55%); JEAN CHRETIEN (50%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DEPALMA, ANTHONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: QUEBEC, CANADA (86%) LATIN AMERICA (94%); CANADA (93%); HAITI (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); BRAZIL (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%) LATIN AMERICA; CARIBBEAN AREA; CANADA; QUEBEC PROVINCE (CANADA)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001 



667 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Green Calls for More Work In Unifying City of Minorities 

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON 

 BODY:
New York City has become such a melange of ethnic, religious and racial groups that today, all its residents are essentially minorities, Public Advocate Mark Green told a predominantly black congregation at a Harlem church yesterday morning.
 Mr. Green, who plans to formally announce his mayoral candidacy tomorrow, told about 250 worshipers at St. Luke's A.M.E. Church on Amsterdam Avenue that the next mayor must recognize this reality and, in a not-so-subtle criticism of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, do a better job in unifying the city's disparate groups. 
 "After a decade of division by race, by class, by ethnicity and by borough, it is now essential we unite as a city," Mr. Green said, his notes resting on an open Bible at the pulpit. "We have to cross racial and class lines to speak to one New York."
His church appearance came on what was yet another busy Sunday of campaigning by the Democratic candidates for mayor. 
City Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone made at least six stops yesterday, across Manhattan and Brooklyn. Like Mr. Green, he made his schedule serve as a tribute of sorts to the city's diversity, attending separate ceremonies commemorating the mass killings of Jews during World War II and of Armenians 86 years ago in what today is Turkey. He also stopped at City Hall for an Earth Day-inspired news conference to urge more energy conservation by city residents and businesses.
The Bronx borough president, Fernando Ferrer, speaking at a mayoral candidates' forum sponsored by the 504 Democratic Club, a group that focuses on the rights of the disabled, talked about what he called the "two New Yorks," one where hotels are full, trash gets picked up and crime has declined, and the other where the schools are failing, health care is difficult to get and housing is not affordable, said his spokesman John Del Cecheo. Mr. Ferrer said he comes from the second New York.
City Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi held his own news conference outside City Hall to criticize a plan by the Water Board to increase water and sewer rates by 3.5 percent next year.
And Mr. Green, Mr. Vallone and Mr. Hevesi also appeared at the 504 Democratic Club forum. George N. Spitz, a fifth Democrat running for mayor, also spoke at that event.
Mr. Green's comments at St. Luke's, one of Manhattan's largest African Methodist Episcopal churches, touched on themes that already have become central to his soon-to-be-official campaign. He criticized the Giuliani administration for not doing enough to ensure that police officers guilty of abuse or misconduct are punished. And he talked about how a city that thrived in many ways during the 1990's still has room for improvement and inclusion.
"If you can work with me in a coalition of change, diversity and unity, the greatest city on earth is about to get better," said Mr. Green, citing Robert F. Kennedy as a role model.
Speaking at his Earth Day news conference on the steps of City Hall yesterday, Mr. Vallone seemed to reach a bit to gain his share of the day's news coverage: he held up an energy-efficient light bulb that he said could help cut electricity use and improve air quality in the region.
"If we just change to these kinds of bulbs over the next year, we would reduce the demand for energy enormously," Mr. Vallone said, adding that he hoped to introduce legislation that would give companies and residents tax breaks for buying energy efficient products.
At his own City Hall Park news conference, Mr. Hevesi said that the proposed rate increase by the Water Board, which would cost the average metered household about $16 a year, is needed only because of inaccurate budget projections and the poor job the city does collecting delinquent water and sewer bills.
In the last 15 years, Mr. Hevesi said, city water and sewer rates have gone up 251 percent, or four times the rate of inflation. And rate increases are now planned every year through at least 2006.
"They are not managing their money as appropriately as they should," Mr. Hevesi said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); ETHNIC GROUPS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CRIME RATES (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ETHNICITY (78%); EARTH DAY (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (65%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (64%); UTILITY RATES (64%); TRENDS (63%); MISCONDUCT (62%); WORLD WAR II (51%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ELECTION ISSUES; MINORITIES (US); ELECTION ISSUES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BLACKS 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (59%) GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); LIPTON, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); NETHERLANDS (92%); ARMENIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001 



668 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: Biggest Obstacle to Selling Trade Pact: Sovereignty 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: QUEBEC, April 22 

 BODY:
Midway through President Bush's first summit meeting, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said he was unfazed by the raucous demonstrations that greeted the 34 leaders trying to turn the Western Hemisphere into a single market.
 "An old infantryman always remembers what tear gas and pot smell like when you walk in the barracks," he joked with reporters, recalling his days as a young Army officer. 
 But for Mr. Bush's new administration, the odors may be the only familiar element of a brew of street protests, domestic politics and foreign policy that merged this weekend at the Summit of the Americas. 
The meeting represented the third try in seven years to create a giant free-trade alliance from the Arctic Circle to Tierra del Fuego. 
As Mr. Bush found, a lot happened at the intersection of trade and politics in the eight years when the Republicans were out of the White House. When Mr. Bush's father left office the term globalization had barely entered the lexicon. Nafta -- the North American Free Trade Agreement -- was still under negotiation. The Seattle protests of 1999 were six years away.
So starting this weekend, the new president found himself playing what his predecessor once called the "three-dimensional chess" of trade. He knows he must respond to the swelling emotions on the street that captivate the television cameras, at the same time addressing the fears of developing nations that the Free Trade Area of the Americas is a neutral-sounding term for an imperialist world in which the United States sets the rules and gets the benefits.
And more immediately, Mr. Bush must deal with a Congress that is so divided on trade that it is unclear whether the president will get the authority he would need to negotiate the pact he came here to promote. 
Nor is it obvious how much political capital Mr. Bush will expend on trade in a year when tax cuts and education are higher on his agenda.
Mr. Bush brushed that aside today when, appearing with several Latin American leaders and the prime minister of Canada, Jean Chretien, he made his bottom-line case for the trade pact.
In a comment unlikely to strengthen his friendships among America's European and Asian allies, he said he was focusing on a regional accord so that "we can combine in a common market so we can compete in the long term against the Far East and Europe." 
And he revived one of President Clinton's favorite arguments, that democracy and American-style capitalism are now intertwined. In fact, the communique issued today states that any country in the hemisphere that suffers an "unconstitutional alteration or interruption of the democratic order" will be banned from negotiations over a free trade area.
Turning such lofty principles into a real agreement will be a complex task. The biggest problem comes down to one word: sovereignty.
The protesters on the street had any number of complaints. Some came to argue that free trade puts the interests of industry ahead of the environment, or that it does nothing to assure that workers get higher wages and the right to unionize, or that it concentrates wealth in the hands of the rich. 
They said Nafta, which Mr. Bush repeatedly cited as the model for the hemisphere, was actually a disaster for the people who work for low wages in the factories on the Mexican-United States border and for the environment.
But among the serious critics of free trade accords, the fundamental problem is that they have no control over the forces that set environmental or labor rules. 
And they believe that they have been excluded from setting those rules, a feeling reinforced by a recent report by the Leadership Council for Inter-American Summitry, a group of academics and economists. It concluded that "the gap between summit promises and accomplishments is so wide as to have created a public crisis of confidence."
Mr. Bush said today that he hoped to address that concern by publishing the text of the lengthy document that will eventually form the basis of the Free Trade Area of the Americas. The idea is to answer charges that such accords are written in secret.
But Mr. Bush made clear that he would not be deterred, and his tone all weekend conveyed the sense that he was willing to entertain ideas about protecting workers or the environment, as long as they did not slow the pace of commerce.
"There are some people in my country that want to shut down free trade," he said. "And they're welcome to express their opinions." But, he added, "it's not going to change my opinion about the benefits of free trade."
Sovereignty, though, is not only a worry on the street. It is a concern among Latin America's elected leaders as well, and several made clear that they planned to proceed with enormous care. 
Brazil's president, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, showed no more enthusiasm for a quick free trade area than he has before. His country has deep doubts that the United States would really allow Brazilian orange juice, steel, shoes and other products into the American market with virtually no duties, competing with American workers.
Venezuela's president, Hugo Chavez, a populist whom Mr. Bush approaches warily, took exception to several clauses in the communique, indicating problems to come. 
Even Canada objects to provisions that would let international investors challenge any nation's laws on the grounds that they threaten the profitability of those investments. Under the Nafta, United Parcel Service is already challenging Canada's subsidies for its postal service.
Such concerns are only going to get more intense. Latin America has made progress in the last decade, but its many American-inspired economic reforms have had limited effect. Growth has been a modest 3 percent, unemployment is up and a third of the population of 180 million people earns $2 a day.
For Latin leaders, "selling this at home won't be easy," said Richard Feinberg of the University of California, a former Clinton administration official who studied the topic.
It will not be easy for Mr. Bush, either. Congress declined to give Mr. Clinton the authority to negotiate trade agreements that cannot be amended when they reach the House and Senate floors, where lobbyists from every industry will try to reopen negotiations. Mr. Bush said today that he was committed to getting such authority this year. The 33 countries he is negotiating with are waiting to see if he succeeds; only then will serious bargaining begin.
Mr. Bush's trade representative, Robert Zoellick, wants to bridge the gap between Democrats who insist that any trade accord impose penalties on countries that fail to protect workers and the environment, and Republicans who see such requirements as a form of protectionism.
Mr. Zoellick said he wanted to include "incentives," not sanctions, for countries to respect workers' rights and the environment. That is unlikely to satisfy Congressional Democrats. But any provisions that imposes sanctions are bound to raise cries from Latin America.
So Mr. Bush is going to have to convince Congress that he is not giving up America's power to shape the rules, and convince the Western Hemisphere that he is acting as a "humble" superpower, the phrase he has used many times. 
That will take years. Along the way, he and Mr. Powell are likely smell some more tear gas.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush with President Fox of Mexico, left, and Prime Minister Chretien of Canada after the meeting. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ARMIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (69%); TAX LAW (63%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (58%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (58%); JEAN CHRETIEN (50%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: QUEBEC, CANADA (90%) LATIN AMERICA (93%); CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (89%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (78%); ARCTIC (76%) QUEBEC PROVINCE (CANADA); LATIN AMERICA; CARIBBEAN AREA

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001 



669 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs; 
Protesting for Whom?

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: ACCRA, Ghana 

 BODY:
I thought about going to the Quebec Summit of the Americas, but I lost my gas mask so I decided to go to Africa instead. It's interesting listening to Africans talk about globalization. While the protesters in Quebec were busy denouncing globalization in the name of Africans and the world's poor, Africans themselves will tell you that their problem with globalization is not that they are getting too much of it, but too little.
 That's not surprising, because if you actually look around Africa you see that the countries that are the most democratic, where the people have the most freedom to choose -- South Africa, Nigeria, Ghana -- are the most pro-trade, the most integrated in the world economy and the most globalized. The countries that are led by dictators, are the least open and where the people have the least freedom to choose -- Sudan, Zimbabwe, Liberia, Libya etc. -- are those most hostile to globalization, openness and trade in goods and services. 
 So if you were wondering why you saw so few Africans joining the anti-globalization "festival" in Quebec, it's because they understand that -- with the exception of the environmentalists -- this anti-globalization movement is largely the well intentioned but ill informed being led around by the ill intentioned and well informed (protectionist unions and anarchists), who do not serve Africa's interests. 
Last year this same anti-globalization gang, in its most shameful hour, tried to block Congressional passage of the African Growth and Opportunity Act -- a bill enabling Africa's poorest countries to export textiles to the U.S. with little or no tariffs, which is critical for creating lots of low-skilled jobs. Eventually the bill squeaked through. The early result? Madagascar's textile exports to the U.S. are up 120 percent, Malawi's are up 1,000 percent, Nigeria's are up 1,000 percent and South Africa's are up 47 percent. Real jobs for real people. 
Ghana, like so many African countries, has largely lived off aid and the export of raw materials. But for the first time it is developing an information sector to do data processing for American Express and Aetna, which is providing jobs that pay much higher than average Ghanaian salaries. "People here want into the global marketplace; they know it's the only way out of poverty," says George Apenteng, director of Ghana's Institute for Economic Affairs. "But people here are also worried they won't be able to compete and that Western markets aren't as open to what we can sell, like agriculture, as ours are to what they sell."
Which is why Jagdish Bhagwati, the Indian-born Columbia University trade economist, insists that: "The civil society groups who are concerned about the poor should actually be working to extend the benefits of globalization and freer trade to the truly poor in Africa, not denying them these opportunities. Simultaneously, they should be working for adjustment assistance and retraining for our workers, so they are not abandoned to the unregulated forces of international competition."
Face it, says Jeff Sachs, the Harvard development economist. Africans today are literally dying of poverty -- not simply AIDS, but diseases that could easily be eradicated but aren't because there is so little economic growth Africans don't have the resources. Mr. Sachs notes that one of the main reasons Africa has fallen so far behind East Asia, Mexico or Brazil is because it has been stuck just exporting raw materials, and has failed to create the legal and tax incentives to attract the global investment and factories that would create sustainable, diversified jobs. Africa's only hope is that through globalization its coastal cities might one day become the sort of export platforms, tourism and service centers that China's are today. "There is not a single example in modern history of a country successfully developing without trading and integrating with the global economy," says Mr. Sachs. 
The fact is, virtually all the leaders who met in Quebec to expand trade were democratically elected, while "the people" in the streets clamoring for "justice" were self-appointed or paid union activists. There is nothing romantic about them. By inhibiting global trade expansion they are choking the only route out of poverty for the world's poor. Which is why these "protesters" should be called by their real name: The Coalition to Keep Poor People Poor. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (93%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); PROTECTIONISM (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); RIOTS (64%); TRENDS (64%); TEXTILES (63%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (51%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (51%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (51%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (57%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (97%); GHANA (95%); CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); NIGERIA (92%); SUDAN (79%); MADAGASCAR (79%); MALAWI (79%); LIBERIA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (78%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (73%) AFRICA

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



670 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1402 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Baseball Idol Wins Fans in Seattle 

BYLINE:  By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, April 23 

 BODY:
Hiroyuki Oikawa spent most of last week at his desk in Tokyo, where he manages computer parts in the construction division of the Toyo Engineering Corporation. But on Sunday, he was in Section 128 of Safeco Field here, 21 rows behind home plate, and it did not take long for him to see what he came here to see.
 The Seattle Mariners' leadoff hitter, Ichiro Suzuki, stepped to the plate. A marquee player in his native country, the seven-time batting champion of Japan's Pacific League, and known to Japanese fans simply as Ichiro (a la soccer's Pele), Suzuki rapped a single to right field on the second pitch. 
 "I knew he would do that!" beamed Oikawa, who cheered again when Suzuki scored the game's first run a few plays later. 
Out near right field, where Suzuki plays and where the stands were a sea of Japanese flags and signs saying "Ichiro = Ichiban" (No. 1), fans cheered his every move, especially when he singled again in the sixth inning, knocking in a run, and then stole second base.
"Ichiro is more than just the best baseball player in our country," explained Mie Mori, who works as a translator for a semiconductor company and who also flew in from Tokyo to watch Suzuki. "He is also sort of like" -- she paused, searching for the proper analogy -- "the Brad Pitt of Japan."
When the Mariners visit Yankee Stadium Tuesday night, they will bring with them a 27-year-old rookie sensation whose success so far in American baseball has been a huge story in Japan, a marketing bonanza for the Mariners on both sides of the Pacific and an early vindication of Major League Baseball's moves toward scouring Asia for talent.
Japan and South Korea have already sent fine pitchers into the burgeoning pool of international stars in the majors, where 25.3 percent of all players this season -- the highest in major league history -- were born outside of the 50 states. These hurlers include Hideo Nomo, who threw a no-hitter this month for the Boston Red Sox; Hideki Irabu, the former Yankee now with Montreal; and the Mariners' Kazuhiro Sasaki, last year's American League rookie of the year. In a lovely bit of baseball haiku, Sasaki is closing out many of the games for Seattle that Suzuki is leading off; Sasaki is leading the league in saves. 
But the acquisition of Suzuki, who is batting .361 and who has already put together a 15-game hitting streak, is a step beyond. 
Suzuki is the first Japanese position player (that is, nonpitcher) ever signed to the majors, followed shortly by Tsuyoshi Shinjo, now being platooned in the Mets' outfield. And while some scouts scoffed, arguing that the somewhat gaunt-looking, 5-foot-9, 156-pound Suzuki would have trouble with major league pitching, his bat is speaking for itself in the early weeks of the season. 
That success has set off an immense wave of pride, not only among Japanese and Japanese-Americans, but also among many others of Asian descent, who make up a striking percentage of the fans at Safeco these days.
"It's just great to see an Asian guy out there doing so well," said Chao Ma, a software engineering student at South Seattle Community College who was born in Hong Kong and who was at the stadium here Sunday.
His friend, Vincent Cheung, also a Hong Kong native, who is studying economics and statistics at the University of Washington, said: "This is a very special thing. I wanted to come out here to support him."
And Kim Bui, a Vietnamese-American mortgage broker from suburban Seattle who came to Safeco on Sunday with her Japanese-American boyfriend, said much the same thing. "I'm not even really all that much of a baseball fan," Bui said. "But Ichiro, I had to see." 
Ichi, as he is also known to fans and his teammates, is a big part of the reason that the Mariners, at 15-4, are off to the best start in franchise history. With his bat, speed, rifle throwing arm and a home run-robbing catch off the Rangers' Rafael Palmeiro last week, Suzuki has been galvanizing the Mariners and their fans. 
"He's the engine of our train right now," Mike Cameron, the team's center fielder, said in the locker room Sunday after the Mariners completed a four-game sweep of the Anaheim Angels.
Meanwhile, trailing in Suzuki's wake is a contingent of several dozen Japanese reporters and photographers, whose stories about him are running on the front pages of Japanese newspapers and on television newscasts. 
NHK-TV, the Japanese network, has specially wired Safeco Field so that all Mariners home games can be broadcast live in high-definition television in Japan. Japanese travel companies report a brisk business in so-called Ichiro tours, in which fans pay as much as $1,900 for a package that includes flights to and from Seattle, three nights in a hotel here and tickets to two Mariners games.
Such sports tours are not a new concept in Japan; they began with packages that allowed Japanese tourists to fly to Chicago or West Coast cities to watch Michael Jordan when he was playing for the Chicago Bulls, said Kiyoshi Nakamura, general manager of Azuman International, a company based in Portland, Ore., that is arranging Ichiro tours.
"But Michael Jordan is not Japanese, obviously," Nakamura said. "With Ichiro, this is a national hero doing well in America. This is a big, big deal in Japan." 
His success and that of other Japanese players is not an unalloyed joy back home: there has been some hand-wringing about the effect of the migration of these stars on the Japanese leagues. But it has also been an object of national pride, and Mariners souvenirs with Ichiro's or Sasaki's names are selling out both there and here. 
At the Sports Warehouse, a popular souvenir store just outside Safeco Field, a sign at the cash register says it all. "Help Wanted: Bi-lingual (Japanese/English) salesperson to help Japanese speaking customers." 
The object of all this attention possesses a curious mixture of swagger and humility. Suzuki has somewhat brazenly persuaded Major League Baseball to take the highly unusual step of allowing him to have only his first name on his uniform, and he has expressed no nervousness about his ability to excel in the American game. 
Yet he is cordial and even deferential in interviews, and the Mariners say he turned down a recent entreaty from Sports Illustrated to pose for a possible cover photo, explaining through his interpreter that he felt he had not done anything to deserve the honor yet. (The magazine ran an article inside on Suzuki last week, and put Allen Iverson on the cover instead.)
"To play in Yankee Stadium, that will be a thrill and an honor," Suzuki said Sunday through an interpreter.
For the Mariners, who spent $13.1 million just to talk to Suzuki (that was the negotiating fee paid to his Japanese team, the Orix Blue Wave), then signed him to a relatively modest three-year, $14 million contract, the aggressive recruiting of Japanese ballplayers may be the wave of the future.
Suzuki had said that he wanted to play in a North American city with a significant Japanese community, though he did not specify Seattle. The Mariners may have a particular reason for their knowledge of and interest in Japanese stars: Hiroshi Yamauchi, the team's majority owner, is president of Nintendo, the Japanese video-game company. In addition, about 13 percent of Seattle's population of 563,000 is Asian, according to the 2000 census.
The Seattle club has let three of baseball's best and highest-paid players -- Randy Johnson, Ken Griffey Jr. and Alex Rodriguez -- go to other teams after being unable to reach salary terms on long-term contracts. And while those departures caused much angst, many Seattle fans also credit the ownership, saying it has come up with a club full of young, aggressive ballplayers and no overweening egos.
The players seem to be getting along well, though of course winning always helps in that process. Responding to unconfirmed reports that a Japanese magazine had recently offered $2 million for anyone who could produce a picture of Suzuki naked, many of his teammates have teased him by saying they are hoping to smuggle minicameras into the locker room. 
And no one seems remotely bothered by Suzuki's preference for being known to one and all by his first name, least of all the manager, Lou Piniella, who says Ichiro is the fastest runner, from home to first, in the major leagues.
"He likes Ichiro," Piniella said. "And if he prefers Ichiro, we'll call him Ichiro."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ichiro Suzuki has galvanized the Mariners and the people in the stands. (Dean Rutz/The Seattle Times, for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Kazuhiro Sasaki, a reliever from Japan who plays for Seattle, leads the American League with nine saves.; Ichiro Suzuki, a seven-time batting champion in Japan's Pacific League, is hitting .361 for the Mariners. (Photographs by Agence France-Presse); A detail of the American All-Star ballot to be distributed in Japan. (Major League Baseball)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); ENGINEERING (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); ELECTRONICS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%); ATHLETES (75%); SOCCER (70%) BASEBALL; JAPANESE-AMERICANS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ASIAN-AMERICANS 

COMPANY: TOYO ENGINEERING CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: SEATTLE MARINERS (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%) SEATTLE MARINERS 

TICKER: 6330 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (91%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: BRAD PITT (54%) SUZUKI, ICHIRO; VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (96%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (52%) WASHINGTON, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (77%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



671 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Peru Anti-Drug Patrol Reassessed After Downing of U.S. Plane 

BYLINE:  By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, April 23 

 BODY:
The downing by Peru of a missionary aircraft from the United States has dealt a severe blow to the two countries' efforts to halt drug shipments between Peru's coca fields and the trafficking cartels in Colombia.
 Peru's policy of forcing down suspected trafficking planes since the early 1990's has been praised by Washington as a principal reason why the cultivation of coca plants -- the raw material from which cocaine is made -- has been reduced by two-thirds in Peru since 1995. 
 In those six years, 30 drug trafficking planes were shot down by Peruvian pilots and scores more were forced to land -- though before they went down, the drug traffickers usually dumped the drugs, which were found later. 
The aggressive air policy has frightened most local pilots to stop their smuggling activities, American and Peruvian officials say. That in turn, they say, has interrupted local coca leaf markets and encouraged thousands of coca-growing peasants to try to cultivate other crops like cocoa and coffee, with economic help from the United States. 
But American officials have long acknowledged that the program has its risks. 
The Clinton administration suspended intelligence gathering flights over Peru and Colombia for a month in 1994 because of concerns that American officials could face criminal liability in accidents like the one last Friday that killed an American missionary and her newly adopted infant daughter.
A Peruvian Air Force A-37 fighter jet attacked their pontoon plane, mistaking it for a drug flight. Friends of three American survivors said they had been told that the Peruvian jet then strafed the survivors after they crash-landed on an Amazon River tributary in the jungle near the Brazilian border. 
Relatives of the survivors have also said they were told that the Peruvian Air Force did not make radio contact with the missionaries' aircraft before shooting.
In Washington today, American officials stopped short of apportioning blame for what the White House called an "isolated incident." The Americans said they did not want to halt Lima's cooperation with a joint investigation.
But one senior Bush administration official went so far as to say, "It does appear that the Peruvians, had they followed the proper procedures, could have averted this tragedy."
Apparent errors of command and control, which occurred despite the presence of an American surveillance flight in the area, have forced both governments to reconsider their enforcement strategies.
"The interdiction program has been suspended temporarily, but that could be a very long time, depending on the investigation," said a State Department official. "If you were to terminate the program forever, you would remove one of the main roadblocks to drug cultivation in Peru."
Rear Adm. Luis Augusto Galvez Figari, spokesman for Peru's Defense Ministry, called the incident "a big break for the traffickers." Without flight interdiction, he said, "they will be able to move much more freely." "This program has been a brake on them," he said, "since unfortunately drugs pour through our jungles."
American and Peruvian officials said that they were planning a joint investigation and that investigators from the State Department, the American military and the C.I.A. would arrive in Lima in the next few days. "Everyone who has responsibility will be at the table, and we'll take the necessary actions," a State Department official said.
Admiral Galvez Figari said that during the weekend, Peruvian investigators questioned a Peruvian officer who was stationed on the American surveillance plane, plus the Peruvian pilot of the fighter jet, as well as "the total line of command that was involved in the incident."
He said investigators would try to determine if proper procedures had been followed, and who was responsible for any errors.
 At a briefing today, the State Department spokesman, Richard Boucher, said that the crew aboard the American surveillance aircraft sought to warn off the Peruvians. "And our folks did raise questions and were trying to hold the Peruvians back from action," he said. "But, again, all these things will be looked at very thoroughly so that we and the Peruvians both understand what happened." 
American and Peruvian officials said American surveillance planes customarily alert the Peruvian Air Force when their pilots spotted any flights that appeared potentially suspicious. But the Americans said they left it to Peruvian military and aeronautic authorities on the ground to check flight plans and determine if a particular flight was actually surreptitious.
The two governments have established stringent rules of engagement before a plane can be shot down. The Peruvian authorities are supposed to try to make radio contact with the plane from the ground and air. 
Once a pursuing air force aircraft fails to make radio contact, it is required to make visual contact with the unidentified plane by using signal blinkers and then by tipping its wings in a maneuver that pilots recognize as meaning that a landing is being ordered. Should the pilot neglect to respond, the air force pilot is then supposed to fire warning shots. If that does not force the plane to land, the pilot is then authorized to shoot down the unidentified aircraft.
Admiral Galvez Figari said his ministry was not ready to retract a Peruvian military statement issued over the weekend that said the American pilot had not filed a proper flight plan or responded to radio contact by the air force, but he suggested that a more detailed assessment would be made public soon.
American officials have contradicted much of the original Peruvian military account, saying the crew members of the American surveillance plane, a Cessna Citation jet owned by the United States Air Force, had raised numerous objections as they watched the Peruvian jet attack the missionaries' aircraft.
The officials said the Peruvian officer on board the tracking plane had called in the intercepting A-37 attack jet and tried several times to make radio contact with the unidentified aircraft on several frequencies. But they said the Peruvian Air Force had rushed through the rules of engagement, and launched their attack precipitously.
The American survivors of the incident said that they had communicated with Peruvian ground control during the flight and attack, and that no warning shots had been fired. 
Veronica Bowers, 35, and her 7-month-old daughter, Charity, were killed. Ms. Bowers's husband, James Bowers, 37, a missionary of the Association of Baptists for World Evangelism, their 6-year-old son, Cory, and Kevin Donaldson, 42, the pilot, survived.

GRAPHIC: Map of Peru highlights Lima: The missionaries were flying from Islandia to their home in Iquitos. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COCAINE (92%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (91%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); DRUG INTERDICTION (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); AIRLINES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); COCOA FARMING (76%); CARTELS (72%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (71%); FARM LABOR (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (50%); RIVERS (50%) DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PERU-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; COCAINE AND CRACK COCAINE 

ORGANIZATION: CALVARY CHURCH (ORGN) 

PERSON: BOWERS, VERONICA; KRAUSS, CLIFFORD 

GEOGRAPHIC: AMAZON RIVER (73%) PERU (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); COLOMBIA (93%); BRAZIL (79%) PERU

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



672 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: The Big City; 
Striking Oil? My Backyard Is Just Fine

BYLINE:  By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
NEW YORK CITY has some of the world's most spectacular waterfront property, but its prime use often seems to be as a battleground. The latest fight is over power plants in Long Island City, Harlem and Brooklyn, and it features the usual histrionics on both sides.
 State and city officials are warning of blackouts, economic disaster and even deaths if the new natural gas turbines aren't up and running in time for the summer heat. Environmentalists, local politicians and activists are in court and in front of television cameras protesting that these eyesores on the East River will ruin the waterfront and devastate low-income communities with pollution. 
 These legal and political battles come to seem as inevitable as the sight of prime waterfront property sitting vacant because no one can agree what to do with it. But there are more peaceful ways to resolve land-use disputes. The key is to give both sides an incentive to look for mutual benefits instead of staking out extremist positions. 
A community is more likely to accept an unpopular project if it's getting something tangible in return, like the tax revenues that have induced many small towns to accept factories and landfills as a way to improve their schools. Compensation is trickier to arrange in big cities -- residents in Queens don't ordinarily get much direct benefit from the taxes on their waterfront -- but there are ways to direct money to communities that get stuck with unpopular projects.
There is also a way to encourage communities to volunteer for buildings that everyone needs but no one wants, like a power generator or a sewage treatment plant. Instead of trying to force it on anyone, public officials or developers could start an auction by offering a bonus to any community willing to take it. If the bonus didn't interest anyone, the offer could be steadily raised until one community volunteered. There would undoubtedly still be internal squabbling in that community, but at least the locals wouldn't feel that the project was being imposed by outsiders.
A more radical way to placate Nimby activists or environmental groups would be to give them title to the public land they're now fighting to preserve. Consider, for instance, a modest proposal by Jerry Taylor for turning some famous waterfront property in Alaska -- the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge -- over to environmentalists. 
Mr. Taylor makes this proposal not because he passionately wants to preserve that wilderness. As director of natural resource studies of the Cato Institute, a free-market-oriented research group, Mr. Taylor is a frequent foe of environmentalists and isn't convinced that drilling in the Arctic would be a disaster. But he would let an environmental group take over the refuge (perhaps by buying it at an auction limited to the major environmental groups) because he thinks any private owner would be a better steward than the government.
IN private hands, the refuge's fate would be decided not by legal maneuvering, not by politicians thinking no further than the next election, not by a vicious public relations battle between oil companies and environmental groups. Instead, the environmentalists who owned the refuge would be weighing the long-term costs and benefits.
"When environmentalists own property themselves, they don't turn it into the Ted Kaczynski theme park," Mr. Taylor said. "They'll tolerate economic activities on their own land, like cattle ranching or oil and gas drilling, that they don't tolerate on public land. Like any landowner, they have an incentive get the maximum utility out of their property."
A group like the Nature Conservancy or the Sierra Club, Mr. Taylor said, might say no to oil drilling if the risks seemed too high, but it might well be tempted by an offer of, say, $10 billion from an oil company to drill on a tiny part of the refuge.
Instead of demonizing oil companies, environmentalists would be contemplating all the land that $10 billion would buy to set up more wildlife refuges. Instead of issuing lurid predictions of disaster, they'd be studying the safest ways to extract oil.
"They'd demand environmentally sensitive drilling practices, and they'd trust themselves as monitors more than they'd trust government bureaucrats," Mr. Taylor said. "The public would trust them more, too. In fact, turning the refuge over to conservationists might be the only politically realistic way that the oil industry will ever have a shot at exploiting those potentially rich fields."
Either way, whether the drilling went ahead or not, there would at least be a semblance of peace on the waterfront. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); POWER FAILURES (77%); WILDLIFE (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); POLITICS (75%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (75%); WATER POLLUTION (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); CITIES (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); LANDFILLS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); WILDERNESS (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (60%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (50%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SHORTAGES 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); ALASKA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); ARCTIC (66%) NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC); BROOKLYN (NYC); LONG ISLAND CITY (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



673 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: Seattle, Quebec and the World 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Hearts and Heads," by Paul Krugman (column, April 22):
 When peaceful demonstrators campaigned against segregation and American involvement in Vietnam, they were labeled radicals. 
The same could be said about the founding fathers and the pro-choice and workers' rights movements. 
 Now, Mr. Krugman joins capitalists criticizing the anti-globalization demonstrators in Seattle and Quebec as wrong, defending sweatshops employing children as necessary for the development of an economy in poor countries. Corporations promote poor pay and working conditions and pollution under the guise of free trade to maximize profits.
Yet poor countries, developed countries and responsible corporations can flourish together with trade, fair wages and working conditions and environmental protections. This concept will become as mainstream as democracy and human rights.

JERRY FRANKEL
Plano, Tex., April 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); GLOBALIZATION (87%); CHILDREN (87%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); SWEATSHOPS (87%); GARMENT WORKERS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CHILD LABOR (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); TRADE SHOWS (51%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; ENVIRONMENT 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (90%) FRANKEL, JERRY; KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



674 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 108 words

HEADLINE: Seattle, Quebec and the World 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Greens and Globalization: Declaring Defeat in the Face of Victory" (Week in Review, April 22): Environmentalists object not just to specific World Trade Organization rulings but to a system where corporations get two chances to block environmental and labor laws: once in a country's ordinary legislative process and a second time before a W.T.O. trade appeals panel. 
 Worse, the appeals panel hearings are closed to the news media and the public. You have long advocated openness in American court proceedings. Why should international trade panels be exempt from the same scrutiny?

MARK KRUMHOLZ
El Cerrito, Calif., April 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (88%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (87%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); GLOBALIZATION (86%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (55%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ENVIRONMENT 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: KRUMHOLZ, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



675 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY BRIEFING: INTERNET; 
AD GROWTH SLOWS SHARPLY

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
 The slowdown in advertising spending in online media was underscored yesterday when the Interactive Advertising Bureau in New York released its ad revenue report for 2000. The report, compiled by PricewaterhouseCoopers, showed that ad revenue in the fourth quarter rose 8.5 percent from the third quarter, to $2.16 billion from $1.99 billion. 
That was a far lower rate than in previous years, when spending rose 30 percent to 40 percent from the third quarter to the fourth quarter. The increase in the fourth quarter from the fourth quarter of 1999, when ad revenue totaled $1.78 billion, was 21.3 percent, also well below usual. The bureau attributed the slowdown to the faltering national economy as well as the higher revenue base as online ads grew. For all 2000, Internet ad revenue totaled $8.2 billion, up 78 percent from $4.6 billion in 1999. Stuart Elliott

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (94%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (94%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (91%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (88%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERACTIVE ADVERTISING BUREAU (91%) INTERACTIVE ADVERTISING BUREAU 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



676 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2729 words

HEADLINE: Labor Standards Clash With Global Reality 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE KAUFMAN and DAVID GONZALEZ 

DATELINE: SAN SALVADOR 

 BODY:
Six years ago, Abigail Martinez earned 55 cents an hour sewing cotton tops and khaki pants. Back then, she says, workers were made to spend 18-hour days in an unventilated factory with undrinkable water. Employees who displeased the bosses were denied bathroom breaks or occasionally made to sweep outside all morning in the broiling sun.
 Today, she and other workers have coffee breaks and lunch on an outdoor terrace cafeteria. Bathrooms are unlocked, the factory is breezy and clean, and employees can complain to a board of independent monitors if they feel abused. 
 The changes are the result of efforts by Gap, the big clothing chain, to improve working conditions at this independent factory, one of many that supply its clothes. 
Yet Ms. Martinez today earns 60 cents an hour, only 5 cents more an hour than six years ago.
In some ways, the factory, called Charter, shows what Western companies can do to discourage abuse by suppliers. But Gap's experience also demonstrates the limits to good intentions when first-world appetites collide with third-world realities.
Ms. Martinez's hours are still long, production quotas are high, and her earnings are still not enough to live on. She shares a two-room concrete home with a sister, two brothers, her parents and a grandmother. 
Yet the real alternative in this impoverished nation is no work. And government officials won't raise the minimum wage or even enforce labor laws too rigorously for fear that employers would simply move many jobs to another poor country.
The lesson from Gap's experience in El Salvador is that competing interests among factory owners, government officials, American managers and middle-class consumers -- all with their eyes on the lowest possible cost -- make it difficult to achieve even basic standards, and even harder to maintain them.
"Some have suggested that there are simple or magic solutions to ensure that labor standards are applied globally," said Aron Cramer, director of human rights at Business for Social Responsibility, a nonprofit advocacy group that receives support from business. "In fact, it takes a great deal of work."
Fed up with abusive conditions, Ms. Martinez and a small group of other workers organized and began to hold strikes at the factory, then called Mandarin International, in 1995. As tension rose, workers took over the factory and shut down power to the plant. Security guards forcibly ejected strikers; union members said the guards dragged women out by their hair and clubbed them with guns. The factory's owners fired hundreds, including Ms. Martinez.
It might have ended that way, except that it occurred just as concern about sweatshops was rising in the United States. Groups like the National Labor Committee, a union-backed, workers advocacy group based in New York, had formed to oppose sweatshops. Mandarin offered a media-ready case of abuse, and the revolt was widely publicized.
Still, two of the four retailers using Mandarin left after the protests -- J. C. Penney and Dayton Hudson (now Target). Eddie Bauer, a unit of Spiegel Inc., suspended its contract. Gap Inc., which is based in San Francisco, intended to quit, too, but a group of Mandarin workers pleaded with the company to save their jobs. Some blamed union organizers for the trouble. "Problems were made to look worse by the union," said one employee, Lucia Alvarado, who has worked at the factory for eight years.
Gap executives chose to stay after deciding that all the groups involved -- workers, labor activists and factory owners -- were willing to make changes. The workers were expected to stop disrupting the plant, and managers had to agree to more humane practices and to accept outside monitors.
To make sure the changes stuck and to arbitrate disputes, Gap decided to try the then innovative idea of hiring local union, religious and academic leaders as independent monitors who would meet regularly with workers to hear complaints, investigate problems and look over the books.
"It's not a paradise," said Carolina Quinteros, co-director of the Independent Monitoring Group of El Salvador, as the monitors call themselves. "But at least it works better than others down here. They don't have labor or human rights violations."
The push for change ranges far beyond the Charter factory, or El Salvador. Today, activists on college campuses are calling for an end to sweatshops everywhere. As recently as this past weekend in Quebec, world trade officials debated how to clean up those operations, and the United States has pushed developing countries to raise pay and working conditions in thousands of plants from Bangladesh to Brazil. 
Results, however, have been negligible. The basic problem is that jobs and capital can move fast these days, as the president of El Salvador, Francisco Flores, is keenly aware. "The difficulty in this region is that there is labor that is more competitively priced than El Salvador," he said.
Here, as in many other countries, labor advocates say the problem is made worse by the government's cozy ties with factory owners. When a Labor Ministry committee issued a report critical of forced overtime, poor safety and threats against labor organizers, factory owners complained. The government swiftly withdrew and disowned it.
Salvadoran officials and business leaders have also objected to monitors Gap has hired to police working conditions. They contend that the group is a tool of unions that want to keep jobs from leaving the United States -- or a leftist anti-government front, a suspicion left over from El Salvador's long civil war, which ended in 1992.
Then there is practicality. Gap spends $10,000 a year for the independent monitors at Charter, which is owned by Taiwanese investors, and thousands more for management time to arbitrate disputes and for its own company monitors to recheck the facts on the ground. For the company to duplicate these intensive efforts at each of the 4,000 independent factories it contracts with would have taken about 4.5 percent of its annual profit of $877 million last year.
In a world where costs are measured in pennies, that percentage would be a significant burden. Wal-Mart and Kmart are praised by investors for relentlessly driving down costs, but they have much less comprehensive monitoring programs.
Gap says that expense and staff time are not even its main concerns. The experiment in El Salvador has only reinforced the company's conviction that companies cannot substitute for governments indifferent to enforcing laws. Also, it said, retailers have limited power over their independent contractors. Either they pull out, which would punish innocent workers, or they must accede to a slow process where they must cajole and bully for every bit of progress.
"We are not the all-powerful Oz that rules over what happens in every factory," said Elliot Schrage, Gap's senior vice president for global affairs. "Do we have leverage? Yes. Is it as great as our critics believe? Not by a long shot."

Sitting Down
Monitoring Effort Enlists Outsiders
Still, monitoring is the sweatshop opponents' great hope. Watchdog groups say that only people outside of the company can win the trust of workers and evaluate complaints. "That is where you get problems that won't show up in paper records and interviews with management," said Sam Brown, executive director of the Fair Labor Association, a labor advocacy group in Washington.
At the time, however, no one had ever done it, said Mr. Brown, who is a former Ambassador to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and past director of Action, federal domestic volunteer agency.
Gap's efforts are still in many ways a blueprint for the international labor advocacy movement -- since 1995 other companies like Liz Claiborne and Reebok have attempted to start similar programs. But what has actually happened in El Salvador is a process that lasted longer, cost more and achieved less than what many people had hoped for. "We knew it would be hard," Mr. Schrage said. "But it's been harder than we ever imagined."
The company has found that no aspect of its efforts escapes local politics. On the recommendation of Charles Kernaghan, the director of the National Labor Council, Gap turned to the legal aid office of the Archdiocese of San Salvador and to the Jesuit University here. Earlier, both institutions had helped uncover abuses in the plant, which to Gap demonstrated their experience and independence from management. But both also had a history of sympathy for the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front, a coalition of rebel groups and political parties during the civil war. The coalition is known as the F.M.L.N., its initials in Spanish.
"When companies see me, they see someone to the left of the F.M.L.N.," said Benjamin Cuellar, the director of the Institute for Human Rights at the University of Central America here who is also on the board of independent monitors. That view manifests itself in mistrust and resistance by managers, he said.
Beyond politics, Gap says it is not easy to impose its will on contractors simply because it is a major customer. Pedro Mancia, the factory's manager, indicated that he looks on the monitors as an annoyance, not a threat. In his view, the only meaningful role they played was in easing tensions among the workers themselves after the 1995 strike.
That event "was not between management and workers," Mr. Mancia argued. "We had two warring factions of unions and they could not sit down together."
Factory managers agreed to accept monitors mostly to avoid losing Gap and going out of business. Still, trust is tenuous and the managers have found ways -- subtle and not so subtle -- to resist, monitors say.
It took about a year to rehire all of the workers fired during the 1995 strike, for example. And 30 of those rehired in 1997 were fired again recently, not because they were strikers but because the company said they were not productive enough. "They are playing by the rules of the game," said one member of the monitoring group. "But I'm not much in agreement with the rules of the game."
Gap says that this project has taught it the limit of its own influence. "We can't be the whole solution," Mr. Schrage said. "The solution has to be labor laws that are adequate, respected and enforced. One of the problems in El Salvador is that that was not happening and is not happening."

Moving On
Economic Obstacles Impede Reforms
Before dawn each day, Flor de Maria Hernandez leaves her three children in the tent where they have lived since an earthquake leveled her home earlier this year and begins her two-hour commute to the Charter clothing factory.
She and the others, like Ms. Martinez, must be at work before 7 a.m. Managers close the gate precisely on the hour and dock the pay of anyone who is late.
Inside, rows of sewing machines face blackboards on which supervisors have written the daily quotas for shirts and trousers, roughly 2,000 a day for each line of 36 machines. The pace is relentless, but by local standards it is a pleasant place to work. There are lockers, tiled bathrooms, a medical clinic and an outdoor cafeteria. Large fans and high ceilings keep temperatures down.
But Ms. Martinez remembers just what it took to get this far. She was among the workers who protested the abusive conditions in 1995. "Workers would bring in permission slips from their doctors to go to the hospital," she recalled, "and supervisors would rip it up in their faces."
Of the 70,000 garment workers in El Salvador, 80 percent are women. Few earn enough to take care of their families. Ms. Hernandez, for example, earns about $30 a week inspecting clothes. It is not enough to feed her children; to make ends meet, she relies on help from her ex-husband.
She keeps her job because the most common alternative is to work as a live-in maid or a street vendor. Jobs cutting sugar cane in the searing sun, once plentiful, are difficult to find now, and wages have fallen in recent years along with commodity prices.
El Salvador, never a wealthy country, is struggling every bit as hard as its people. Roughly 75,000 people were killed and thousands wounded in the civil war. The war also drove away foreign investment, shuttered relatively high-paying electronics factories and left roads, power lines and other basic services in tatters.
Earlier this year, two powerful earthquakes compounded the difficulties by wrecking hundreds of thousands of buildings. Economists estimate that 180,000 Salvadorans are jobless. Almost half of the population lives in poverty.
The government has gone out of its way to attract investment and jobs. Government leaders pin the country's future on the optimistic hope of doubling the number of factories making clothes for the United States, to more than 400, in three years. "Maquilas have been a source of significant economic growth in recent years," President Flores said using the Spanish term for the plants that enjoy tax and trade benefits. "They are the most dynamic economic sector in the country."
That growth, however, has not been matched by the budget of the Labor Ministry, which is among the worst-financed agencies. It employs only 37 labor inspectors to enforce regulations -- 1 for every 10 factories, not including coffee plantations, construction sites or other places of business in this country, which has 6.1 million people.
The limits of the government's willingness to be an advocate for labor was illustrated last summer when it suppressed the report critical of factory working conditions. The labor minister, Jorge Nieto, said that the report was technically flawed, and insists that the government intends to modernize his agency and improve inspector training. "We want investment, but only with respect and fairness," he said. "Only when workers' rights are respected can we generate more contracts with American companies."
But to get those contracts, El Salvador must compete with neighbors like Honduras and Nicaragua, where wages are lower and the population even poorer and more eager for work. Government officials and factory managers concede that El Salvador's current minimum wage is not enough to live on -- by some estimates it covers less than half of the basic needs of a family of four -- but they are wary of increasing it.
"We cannot be satisfied with the wage, but we have to acknowledge the economic realities," Mr. Nieto said.
Since Gap pioneered the independent monitoring effort, few other American companies have followed. They cite costs, politics and questionable effectiveness. Gap executives echo those worries when they assess the experience at Charter.
"We are in a very competitive marketplace," said Mr. Schrage of Gap. "Consumers make decisions on lots of factors, including price. There is no clear benefit in having invested in independent monitoring to a consumer and it is not clear if we were to make it more broad policy that consumers would get a benefit or care at all."
As she shopped at the Gap flagship store at Herald Square in Manhattan, Claire Cosslett fingered an aqua cotton T-shirt made in El Salvador to check for quality. Ms. Cosslett, a legal recruiter, said she reads labels and sometimes worries that her garments are "made by some child chained to a sewing machine."
American companies dread comments like that. Yet for all their fears, they ultimately have to balance their concern over image, and any feelings they have about third-world workers, with customers' attitudes. Then there are the competitive pressures to keep costs low. Would the cost of raising working standards in El Salvador raise the price of a T-shirt enough to drive off customers?
Among several shoppers who were interviewed at the Manhattan store, Ms. Cosslett was the only one to say that reports of sweatshop conditions had stopped her from buying a particular brand. She said she would be willing to pay more for a garment made under better working conditions.
But then she paused and hedged. "It would depend how much," she said.

About These Articles
Articles in this series are examining third-world production for first-world markets. Previous articles described dangerous working conditions at a garment factory in Bangladesh, and life in factories along the border between the United States and Mexico. Later articles will include reports on child labor and union organizing.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Garment workers sew T-shirts at Charter, a factory in El Salvador that manufactures clothing for Gap. (Cindy Karp for The New York Times)(pg. A1); AT HOME -- Abigail Martinez, a Charter worker, watches her mother cook in their two-room house, shared by seven family members.; UNDER GUARD -- Employees enter the industrial park that is home to Mandarin, site of a 1995 strike that led to a new approach of hiring outsiders to monitor conditions.; RUSH HOUR -- Workers run to catch buses home from jobs at the Charter factory in San Salvador. Some commute for two hours. (Photographs by Cindy Karp for The New York Times)(pg. A10) Graph: "A Trade Shift"The shift in El Salvador's exports. Graphs track Food Exports (includes coffee, shrimp and sugar) and Maquilla Sector (Factories producing exports) since 1994.(Source: Central Bank of El Salvador)(pg. A10) Map of El Salvador highlights San Salvador: El Salvador must compete with poor neighbors to attract investments. (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPAREL MFG (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); SWEATSHOPS (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (74%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); RETAILERS (69%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (64%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (61%) LABOR; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; SWEATSHOPS; WAGES AND SALARIES; MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; APPAREL; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; SURVEYS AND SERIES; WORKING HOURS 

ORGANIZATION: GAP INC 

PERSON: KAUFMAN, LESLIE; GONZALEZ, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EL SALVADOR (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%) EL SALVADOR; BRAZIL; BANGLADESH

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



677 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: EUROPE; 
GERMANY: CONFIDENCE GAUGE FALLS

BYLINE:  By Edmund L. Andrews 

 BODY:
 A closely watched barometer of German business confidence dropped again in March, providing new evidence that the American economic slowdown has affected Europe. The IFO index of business confidence, based on a monthly survey by the IFO research institute in Munich, dropped for the ninth consecutive month and reached its lowest level in 12 months. 
But the decline was much smaller than last month, and it merely seemed to corroborate expectations that economic growth in Germany, Europe's biggest economy, will drop from about 3 percent last year to nearly 2 percent this year. Despite signs of trouble, the European Central Bank reiterated its view that European growth will remain relatively healthy and that there is no need to emulate the United States in lowering interest rates. Edmund L. Andrews

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TRENDS (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (71%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%) IFO INSTITUTE 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



678 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: With a Splash of Salt, Industry May Reap Environmental Advantages 

BYLINE:  By KENNETH CHANG 

 BODY:
Substances with chemical structures similar to table salt -- but which look and flow like water -- may one day become environmentally friendly replacements for some of the noxious solvents used by industry.
 The so-called ionic liquids -- essentially salts with low melting temperatures -- were first invented in the 1940's but remained mainly novelties. 
 "They look terribly ordinary," said Dr. Kenneth R. Seddon, a professor of chemistry at Queen's College in Belfast, Northern Ireland. "They look like water." 
Only in the past few years have chemists started thinking of them as a medium for performing chemical reactions. Although still years away from widespread industrial use, ionic liquids are attracting the interest of Exxon Mobil, BP Amoco and other companies.
"It's just a new way of thinking about them," said Dr. Robin D. Rogers, director of the Center for Green Manufacturing at the University of Alabama. 
More than 200 scientists crowded into 80 talks about ionic fluids at the American Chemical Society meeting in San Diego this month.
"It is a very exciting and promising young field," said Dr. Robert Morland, a senior scientist at BP Amoco Chemicals. "It's just beginning to emerge."
The most evident advantage of ionic liquids is environmental. Chemical reactions producing materials ranging from polyester to pharmaceuticals generally employ organic solvents -- a commonplace example of one is paint thinner -- but their fumes are often dangerous if inhaled and can contribute to the formation of smog.
Most ionic liquids emit hardly any fumes, and they can usually be easily recycled and reused, eliminating many of the problems and costs of disposing of solvents.
"If, in fact, that turns out to be true, it may create an economic advantage," Dr. Morland said.
The resemblance of ionic liquids to table salt is in their chemical bonds.
Sodium chloride, the chemical name of table salt, consists of equal parts of sodium and chloride. Because of how the laws of quantum mechanics place electrons around a nucleus of an atom, a sodium atom has a loose hold on its outermost electron. (Think of the electrons filling seats in an auditorium.
A sodium atom has, in essence, a single atom sitting alone in the upper balcony.)
By contrast, the top level of electrons in a chlorine atom is full save for one spot (just one empty seat in the balcony). A chlorine atom will readily yank the loose electron away from a nearby sodium atom. That electron shift leaves the sodium positively charged and the chlorine negatively charged, and the two are pulled together like socks with static cling. The sodium and chlorine pairs then neatly stack up into a crystal of salt.
Heated, the atoms in salt crystal start vibrating. Heated to 1,474 degrees Fahrenheit, the vibrations become so strong that the salt crystal melts into a liquid.
Hot molten sodium chloride is of little use, but in an ionic liquid, a molecule with a similar loose electron takes the place of sodium and a second molecule is inserted for electron-grabbing chlorine.
Because the molecules are larger than sodium and chlorine atoms, they do not stack as neatly. The molecules are not held together as tightly, and the compound melts at much lower temperatures. Some ionic liquids are still liquids at temperatures as cold as -130 degrees Fahrenheit.
Because the liquid is made of ions rather than molecules, the chemical properties are different from those of conventional organic solvents. "It's not surprising everything we see is brand new chemistry," Dr. Seddon said.
By switching the molecules used in the ionic liquids, chemists will be able to design custom properties in their solvents. Dr. Seddon estimates one trillion possible combinations. "You've got this incredible flexibility for getting the system right," he said. Ionic liquids can be mixed together to tweak their properties further.
Dr. James Davis, a professor of chemistry at the University of South Alabama, gives the example of designing an ionic liquid that is able to bind with heavy metal pollutants like mercury and cadmium.
Shaking contaminated water with the ionic liquid will enable the ionic liquid molecules to pull the heavy metals out of the water. The ionic liquid and water will then separate, and the clean water can be poured off.
"The salt and water don't mix," Dr. Davis said, "just like if you have oil and vinegar in a salad dressing."
In addition to the environmental advantage, ionic liquids are often better than traditional solvents and can enable some new chemical reactions.
Ionic liquids are likely first to find applications in high-cost products like pharmaceuticals, with large-scale industrial applications following years later.
But chemists still lack fundamental understanding of how ionic liquids work, even simple properties like the melting temperature. That makes for years of fertile research to come.
"It's just something so unexpected to have a salt that's a liquid," Dr. Davis said. "That looks like an orchard I'm never going to finish picking fruit from."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Saltlike Substances That Melt in Your Hand"Ionic liquids are similar to table salt, but they have much lower melting temperatures because their components do not pack together as tightly as those of a table salt molecule. TABLE SALT (SODIUM CHLORIDE) MELTS AT: 1,474 F DECYLMETHYLIMIDAZOLIUM HEXAFLUOROPHOSPHATE (AN IONIC LIQUID) MELTS AT: 104 F Both molecules make use of similar chemical bonds, ionic bonds, but the chloride and sodium ions in table salt stack neatly unlike the elements of the ionic liquid.(Source: Dr. Robin D. Rogers, University of Alabama)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMISTRY (90%); SOLVENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); CHLORINE (89%); CHEMICALS & ENVIRONMENT (78%); CHEMICALS (78%); PHYSICS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); SMOG (65%); QUANTUM MECHANICS (61%) CHEMISTRY; SALT; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS 

COMPANY: BP PLC (56%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (83%); AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY (55%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (56%); BP (LSE) (56%); XOM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: CHANG, KENNETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



679 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: Prison Guards And Teenagers 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
There is no surer sign that prisons have come to dominate the nation's economic and political landscape than the fact that teenagers are being recruited as prison guards (front page, April 21).
 This is the culmination of a gloomy self-fulfilling prophecy. 
During the 1990's, states cut higher education funds to pay for prison growth. In both New York and California, where higher education was once the jewel of state government, prison expenditures now exceed university financing. 
 While college is becoming less accessible, prisons await youth with open doors. In 1998, 200,000 youths were prosecuted as adults, and more than 16,000 youths are locked up with adults in America on any given day.
A much better plan for our young people would be to provide them with affordable education and alternatives to incarceration if they run afoul of the law.

VINCENT SCHIRALDI
President, Center on Juvenile
and Criminal Justice
Washington, April 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CRIMINAL LAW (90%); PRISONS (90%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (90%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (88%); JAIL SENTENCING (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (87%); EDUCATION FUNDING (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%) PRISONS AND PRISONERS 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON JUVENILE AND CRIMINAL JUSTICE 

PERSON: SCHIRALDI, VINCENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



680 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Throwing Out the Script 

BYLINE:  By Peter Bart; Peter Bart, editor in chief of Variety, was president of Lorimar Films.

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, Calif. 

 BODY:
If Mel Brooks were to write a show about a labor dispute, it might resemble the present face-off involving film and television writers. Since the dispute is as much about status as it is about money, its subtext reflects Hollywood's changing sociology rather than its economics.
 The chief negotiator for "labor" is a remarkably fecund writer named John Wells who earns more than $35 million a year and is really more a producer than a writer. Across the table sit the so-called moguls, who are really management apparatchiks for multinational corporations like Sony, Vivendi or the News Corporation. 
 The impact of a possible strike on films and TV programming is not hard to foresee. If the writers were to walk out when their contract expires May 1, the networks would impose a steady menu of "Datelines" and "Survivors" -- what they euphemistically call reality programming. And because the Screen Actors Guild might join a month later, the studios are rushing through a record crop of hastily assembled films, which they admit have been haphazardly scripted.
Under dispute are residuals -- the fees paid for reuse of TV shows -- and division of revenues from video and the Internet. But also on the table is a cluster of status issues: Why can't writers be on the sets of shows they have written? Why aren't they invited to premieres or test screenings? Why are directors allowed to take a "possessory credit" (one that says "a film by . . .") when they haven't written the script?
The weight given these issues is indicative of the changing character of the writing fraternity. In the heyday of the studio system, screenwriters were resigned to being hired hands. Writing a movie often served as a remunerative intermission between plays or novels for the likes of a Fitzgerald or Faulkner.
A Writers Guild meeting today, however, could pass for a class reunion of the Harvard Business School. For these serious young men and women, writing is the chosen career and economics is a key reason they've chosen it. The median income of working members of the Writers Guild is $84,000, and hundreds of members are millionaires. Today's writers want the big bucks but also demand to be treated as creative equals.
Some of the industry's elder statesmen believe the writers, carried away by their ego needs, have created a farce. Financially, it would be virtually impossible for writers ever to recoup lost income from a prolonged strike. Further, an industrywide shutdown would have a cataclysmic impact on Southern California, where show business employs 470,000 people.
Writers are also catching heat from producers and directors in the industry who insist that their timing is faulty. With a recession looming, they argue, this is no time to demand a bigger cut of the revenue pie. The giant entertainment companies already complain about wafer-thin margins and are threatening layoffs.
For their part, the writers argue that these dire pronouncements are distorted. What were once stand-alone studios and networks have been absorbed over the last decade into megacompanies whose sheer economic heft has thrown Hollywood's cost structure out of whack, sending talent and marketing costs into the stratosphere. A movie like "Bonnie and Clyde" that opened in a few cities with a modest newspaper advertising campaign would now be splashed across 4,000 screens amid a $40 million TV marketing fusillade.
Some on the management side are more frustrated by the status issues than by those involving numbers. For one thing, it's up to the directors, not the executives, to relent on the "film by" credit. Some Directors Guild militants point out that in television, writer-producers exert the same tyranny over directors as directors do over writers in film.
All that aside, it's a fact of life that the power rests with the director on a film set and that once a film starts shooting, the writer may be both an irrelevancy and a distraction. In my career running a studio, I recall one high-profile movie that was falling behind schedule because of an insecure star and an omnipresent screenwriter. The star would rehearse his lines in scene after scene and then tell the director, "Give us an hour and we can improve the dialogue." He would then disappear with the writer for several hours while the director was tearing his hair. I decided to buy the writer a drink at the end of the day to offer the following proposition: "I want you to stop coming to the set. I'll even pay you more if you'll stay away."
The writer was wide-eyed. "I'm not going to turn down an offer to get paid not to write," he replied. Soon we were back on schedule.
No one's willing to pay today's writers not to work. The industry is keeping its fingers crossed, however, hoping they decide not to strike.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Pascal LeMaitre) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); WRITERS (91%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (55%) TELEVISION; LABOR; MOTION PICTURES 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (71%); VIVENDI (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (56%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (71%); NWS (ASX) (71%); VIV (PAR) (57%); VIV (BIT) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (71%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (71%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (71%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%)

PERSON: BART, PETER 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



681 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: Buy SilkPurse.com! 

BYLINE:  By Andy Borowitz; Andy Borowitz writes a humor column, The Borowitz Report, for Newsweek.com.

 BODY:
The stock market slide of the past few months may or may not be over, but some Wall Street insiders think the time is right for investors to start nibbling selectively at stocks. Here is a partial list of the companies these experts believe will thrive in today's market:
 SpinPrep Software: This Palo Alto-based firm's software generates buoyant, face-saving speeches for bubble economy moguls whose doomed enterprises have been taken over at fire-sale prices. The software's find/replace feature substitutes the words "strategic alliance" for "desperation bailout," "gathering momentum" for "hemorrhaging money" and "impetuous suitor" for "despised rival." 
 Scuttle Payment Systems: Expected to be one of the supergrowth stocks of this decade, Scuttle offers professional surrogates who will shamelessly back out of any deal its once-flush clients may have made for a beach house, sailboat or N.B.A. franchise.
Atrophy Consulting: Atrophy offers a complete range of consulting services aimed at slashing the monthly expenses of so-called trophy wives. Services include Neiman Marcus credit card demagnetization; Zagat guide confiscation/hiding; and guided tours of supermarkets, self-service gas pumps and MetroCard machines.
Downjohn Pharmaceuticals: Downjohn is expecting F.D.A. approval of a new breakthrough drug, Contraxil, which treats the anxiety people experience while looking at their rapidly shrinking 401(k) statements.
SynthetiCrowd Solutions: Targeting the burgeoning market of overpriced, sparsely patronized restaurants that just a few months ago were brusquely turning people away, SynthetiCrowd provides groups of bored-looking, chicly dressed stand-ins who pose as "customers" waiting three-deep at the bar. The company's premium service, BuzzFaker, dispatches staffers who look sort of like Leonardo DiCaprio.
FiveCentCigars.com: It's unusual for Wall Street mavens to favor a dot-com offering these days, but analysts are high on this e-commerce site, which targets newly humbled stockbrokers and investment bankers. In addition to a wide variety of distinctively odoriferous stogies, the site offers brown paper lunch bags, no-name colas, ramen noodles and, for those living in Manhattan, a same-day four-dollar haircut. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); BONDS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); US 401K PLANS (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); APPROVALS (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (53%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%)

PERSON: LEONARDO DICAPRIO (50%) BOROWITZ, ANDY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



682 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Fun, games and even a little business at the 2001 Four A's management conference.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
HERE is a look at some of the highlights, lowlights and sidelights of the 2001 management conference of the American Association of Advertising Agencies, held last week in Naples, Fla.
 DANCING CHECK TO CHECK -- Each year, during a business session that opens the management conference, the outgoing secretary-treasurer delivers his or her annual report to the association's board in a tongue-in-cheek fashion meant to evoke, for those long memories, "The Treasurer's Report" by the humorist Robert Benchley. Some are more successful than others, but perhaps the best to date was the performance of J. Melvin Muse, chief executive at Muse Creative Holdings in New York. 
 Mr. Muse ended his tenure as the 2000-01 secretary-treasurer by appearing before his colleagues on Wednesday in black tie, lighting a big cigar and drinking from an oversized martini glass. He distributed copies of his financial report, which was printed on red cocktail napkins, then danced a polished tango to prerecorded music with Meltim Cakir, vice president for strategic services at the Esperanto Group unit of Muse, who wore a chic black cocktail dress. 
The board responded with loud, sustained applause.
"This is available on CD, by the way," said Philip B. Dusenberry, the 2000-01 chairman of the association, known as the Four A's, who is chairman at the BBDO North America unit of BBDO Worldwide in New York, part of the Omnicom Group.
WHO'S THE BOSS? -- During the conference, Brendan Ryan, chairman and chief executive at FCB Worldwide in New York, part of True North Communications, which is being acquired by the Interpublic Group of Companies, took over for Mr. Dusenberry, becoming the 2001-02 chairman of the Four A's. Mr. Ryan stepped in after John J. Dooner Jr., the vice chairman for 2000-01, decided against standing for election as chairman, the normal procedure; Mr. Dooner cited his additional workload since he became both chairman and chief executive at Interpublic in New York.
Mr. Ryan, at the general session on Friday, playfully offered a rationale for Mr. Dooner's decision last month to acquire True North: "To avoid writing the introductions and the speeches" at the conference, "that little weasel went out and bought us. Then he called me up and made me do the damn thing."
DO AS I SAY . . . -- One of the three workshops on Saturday on agency management and operations, carrying the assertive title "Why It's Time for a New Kind of Agency," was presented by two top executives of AKQA, a recently formed advertising, marketing and technology services shop, backed by Accenture, with offices in London, New York, San Francisco and Singapore.
Mocking the theme of the conference -- "Tomorrow and Tomorrow and Tomorrow. What's It All About? The Agency in an Era of Change" -- Tom Bedecarre, chief operating officer at AKQA in San Francisco, said, "It seems our industry is stuck on yesterday, yesterday, yesterday, when all our troubles seemed so far away."
Those troubles were indeed far from Naples. They were back in San Francisco, where, the trade publication Advertising Age reported yesterday, AKQA laid off as many as three dozen of its 170 employees. In a telephone interview yesterday, Mr. Bedecarre, who had been chairman at Citron Haligman Bedecarre, one of the agencies that combined to form AKQA, attributed the layoffs to the loss of a large client that closed and the shifting of employees among the AKQA offices.
Asked whether as many as 36 staff members were dismissed, Mr. Bedecarre said he could not comment.
AKQA, by the way, stands for All Known Questions Answered.
WHAT'S IT ALL ABOUT, HAMLET? -- Mr. Bedecarre was not the only one sending up the theme of the conference. Randall Rothenberg, chief marketing officer at BoozAllen & Hamilton in New York, began a panel he moderated on "Leading Agencies in the Post-Dot-Com Era" by repeating the theme and declaring, "Only the advertising industry could combine Shakespeare and Burt Bacharach and make it work."
SAY IT WITH MUSIC -- One of Mr. Rothenberg's panelists, Don Maurer, president and chief executive at McKinney & Silver in Raleigh, N.C., used several pop tunes -- none, though, by Mr. Bacharach -- to underscore the wild roller coaster ride his agency has endured since 1997 as its corporate parentage changed continually.
As Mr. Maurer projected on a screen news clippings about the agency under the CKS Group, U SWeb/CKS and Whittman-Hart, "On the Sunny Side of the Street" played on the soundtrack. Clippings recounting the initial success of the successor to Whittman-Hart, MarchFirst, were backed by the upbeat theme from the film "Rocky."
That gave way to the ominous theme from the film "Jaws" as the clippings reported how MarchFirst tumbled into steep losses and then bankruptcy. Finally, as the clippings reported MarchFirst's sale of McKinney & Silver to Havas Advertising, "On the Sunny Side of the Street" returned.
DOT'S ALL, FOLKS -- Another of Mr. Rothenberg's panelists, Brad Brinegar, chief executive at Leo Burnett U.S.A. in Chicago, part of the Leo Burnett Worldwide unit of the Bcom3 Group, offered a succinct summary of the difference in business climates from last year's conference to this year's.
The dot-com crash "meant the end of what Alan Greenspan calls irrational exuberance," Mr. Brinegar said, "and with this has come new appreciation for what we call accounts payable."
The comedian who entertained Friday night, Richard Jeni, offered his own perspective on the meltdown, explaining that he had selected the slumping dot-com stock he bought thusly: "If you can't trust William Shatner, who can you trust?"
IN THE DRIVER'S SEAT -- A panel on Friday focused on creativity featured four editors in chief from Conde Nast Publications in New York, part of Advance Publications, including Thomas J. Wallace of Conde Nast Traveler.
The moderator, Steven T. Florio, president and chief executive at Conde Nast, teased Mr. Wallace for running an article about visiting the Gaza Strip, then added with a deadpan delivery: "We're actually bringing a group of General Motors media buyers to the Middle East. It's a thank you from Conde Nast." His reference was to the recent well-publicized decision by G.M. to remove Conde Nast from its 2001 advertising schedule.
RITZ ON THE FRITZ? -- The conference was held at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel in Naples, where the "special" rate for attendees was $365 a night. Many, however, grumbled that they felt they did not get their money's worth, reciting a litany of complaints ranging from long delays at check-in when rooms were not ready to be occupied to faxes that took four hours to be delivered to hit-or-miss service at the restaurants and bars.
Several local residents attributed the problems to a difficulty in hiring employees because of the booming economy in the Naples area, one of the fastest growing in the country.
The most distressing incident involved an elevator filled with passengers that became stuck between floors. The occupants said they had to free themselves when no one from the hotel responded to repeated summonses for help. Perhaps it was just the Ritz-Carlton's way of providing someplace to stay for those waiting for their rooms to be made up.
COMING ATTRACTIONS -- Now that the 2001 conference is over, the Four A's is making plans for the management conferences to be held through 2005. Next year, the conference will return to the Ritz-Carlton Laguna Niguel Hotel in Dana Point, Calif., the site of the 1993 conference. The next two, in 2003 and 2004, will be at new sites, New Orleans and Key Biscayne, Fla. In 2005, the Four A's will return to Bermuda, where the 2000 conference was held.
That leaves plenty of time to shop for the pink and green golf pants required of all visitors by Bermuda law. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); DANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%) ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (86%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); ACCENTURE PLC (58%); BBDO NORTH AMERICA (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%) AMERICAN ASSN OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (86%); OMC (NYSE) (84%); ACN (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (86%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (86%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (86%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%)

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NAPLES, FL, USA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



683 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
Technology Shares Are Hit as Investors Turn Cautious

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

 BODY:
Technology stocks fell yesterday as money managers shifted some of their holdings into more cautious issues after two weeks of gains by the major market indexes.
 Several solid profit reports helped limit the losses of the Dow Jones industrial average, but none of those came from big technology companies. Wall Street firms cautioned investors that some technology sectors still faced declining revenue. And after the stock market closed, Compaq Computer reported earnings that fell short of expectations. 
 The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index fell 104.09 points, or 4.8 percent, to 2,059.32, after a 10 percent gain last week. The Dow Jones average declined 47.62 points, or 0.5 percent, to 10,532.23, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 18.62 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,224.36.
"Yes, tech's bottomed, but that doesn't mean it's going to go straight up," said James W. Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis.
Joseph Osha, an analyst for Merrill Lynch, reduced that firm's ratings for a number of semiconductor stocks, including Intel, Vitesse, PMC-Sierra and Applied Micro Circuits. The stocks are too highly valued, particularly Intel, and "as evidence of company-specific problems continues to accumulate, we do not think owning the stock in anticipation of a semiconductor industry upturn later this year makes sense," he wrote in a research report issued yesterday. Shares of Intel fell $2.11, or 6.5 percent, to $30.32.
Software stocks fared no better as Oracle led the Nasdaq 100-stock index lower. Its shares fell $2.60, or 13.2 percent, to $17.15, after an analyst at Lehman Brothers lowered his revenue and earnings estimates for the company, citing weakness in the economy.
The Dow's computing and telecommunications components were a weight. Along with the decline in Intel, I.B.M. fell $2.83, to $112; AT&T slipped 94 cents, to $21.98; Microsoft dropped 75 cents, to $68.25; and Hewlett-Packard fell 74 cents, to $30.96.
"You still have some presumptions of pretty fast growth rates to justify the prices people put on technology last week," said William V. Fries, manager of the Thornburg Value Fund.
After the market closed, Compaq said its first-quarter profit declined 29 percent, falling short of Wall Street's expectations by a penny a share, according to earnings estimates compiled by Thomson Financial/First Call. The company's stock had closed down 86 cents, at $20.65. It fell as low as $19.50 in trading after the announcement, according to Instinet.
Compaq's announcement was a reminder that despite excitement over the Fed's action and somewhat positive comments from Intel, earnings in the technology sector show few signs of a strong, imminent or industrywide rebound, analysts said.
"We had a nice little run last week, but we're not fast believers," said Pip Coburn, global technology strategist for UBS Warburg.
Stocks of retailers, food and beverage distributors and heavy industrial companies posted gains. Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, which announced a decline in net income and a plan to cut 5,000 jobs, gained $3.80, to $116.30. International Paper, Home Depot, Wal-Mart and Coca-Cola, all Dow components, each posted gains of more than 1 percent early in the day, but fell closer to their opening marks by the afternoon. By day's end, only three Dow components had gains greater than 1 percent: Philip Morris, 3M and Exxon Mobil, which reported a 51 percent increase in profits. Exxon Mobil shares gained $2.83, to $88, while Philip Morris rose 79 cents, to $47.95.
Mr. Fries explained yesterday's gains by cyclical stocks and last week's surge by technology stocks by noting that "it's a question of certain investment styles and disciplines that had to put money to work and emotional fear of missing the boat." --------------------

Treasury Prices Jump
By Reuters
 Treasury bond prices jumped yesterday as stocks were hurt by doubts over the sustainability of this month's equities rally and investors bet the Federal Reserve would keep ratcheting interest rates lower.
The 10-year Treasury note rose 25/32, to a price of 98 19/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.18 percent from 5.29 percent on Friday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 30/32, to 94 31/32. The bond's yield fell to 5.73 percent from 5.80 percent on Friday.

Results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three-month and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)3-Mo. Bills6-Mo. BillsPrice99.07698.145High Rate3.6553.665Investment Rate3.7413.786Low Rate3.55%3.63%Median Rate3.61%3.64%Total applied $25for,912,189$25,648,458$14Accepted,274,929$12,251,958$1Noncompetitive,335,596$1,441,314 Both issues are dated April 26, 2001. The three-month bills mature on July 26, 2001, and the six-month bills mature on Oct. 25, 2001.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); BONDS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); SEMICONDUCTORS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (62%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (61%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (92%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



684 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: CNBC.com To Be Merged Into MSN 

BYLINE:  By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
Continuing to scale back its exposure to the Internet, NBC said yesterday that it would merge its CNBC.com site into the personal finance area of Microsoft's MSN site.
 Last month, NBC said it would buy back the public shares of its money-loosing Internet portal NBCi, substantially scale back the site and lay off most of its 350 employees. 
 CNBC.com, which had as many as 125 employees at the end of last year, has been cutting back and now has fewer than 50, many of whom split their time between the cable TV network and the Web site. Some of those will be offered jobs by Microsoft, which will keep a small operation at CNBC headquarters in Fort Lee, N.J. The company declined to say how many would lose their jobs. 
While CNBC is the dominant financial news cable channel, CNBC.com has been a laggard. With 1.3 million users in March, CNBC.com trails other specialized finance sites including MarketWatch.com, with 3.6 million users, and CNNfn.com, the site affiliated with CNN, which has 2.2 million, according to the research company Media Metrix. All these sites are less popular than the finance sections of general-use Internet portals. America Online's personal finance site had 11.9 million users, Yahoo Finance had 5.5 million, and MSN MoneyCentral 5.2 million.
The president of NBC's Internet unit, Martin Yudkovitz, said he thought financial information had a bright future on the Internet and that this deal did not represent the sort of full retreat being made from NBCi. "We've learned what works," he said. "NBCi had heavy expenses and the results were disappointing. MSNBC, from an economic-quality and market-leadership point of view, has been very good."
Unlike the MSNBC arrangement, the CNBC deal does not give Microsoft a stake in the cable channel. Rather, Microsoft will rename MSN's MoneyCentral Web site CNBC MoneyCentral and to incorporate some CNBC content. Microsoft will sell most of the advertising. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); SEARCH ENGINES (77%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TELEVISION; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); AOL INC (55%); MARKETWATCH INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; CNBC.COM; NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); AOL (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (55%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%); SIC7331 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING SERVICES (55%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



685 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1699 words

HEADLINE: Lifting the Curtain on the Real Costs of Making AIDS Drugs 

BYLINE:  By MELODY PETERSEN 

 BODY:
About a dozen foreign drug manufacturers, working in the shadows to make copycat versions of patented AIDS medicines, are shedding new light on how little these medicines cost to make.
 These drug makers sell their products to countries like Brazil, India and Argentina, which have largely ignored the patents that the world's largest makers depend on for a monopoly and for wide latitude in setting prices. The small companies are expected to sell even more in developing countries around the world after 39 big drug makers bowed to public pressure last week and dropped their legal effort to keep South Africa from importing cheaper drugs. 
 In the shadow market for AIDS drugs, small manufacturers in places like India, South Korea and China use the Internet, faxes and phones to find buyers for their medicines. They produce either the active ingredients in AIDS drugs or package the ingredients into finished drugs themselves and sell lifesaving medicines like Combivir and Zerit for a fraction of the brand-name price. 
For example, while GlaxoSmithKline, the world's largest manufacturer of AIDS medicines, sells Combivir for about $7,000 a year in the United States, the active ingredients in the drug can be bought for about $240 on this international generic market. Cipla Ltd., a manufacturer in Bombay, India, says it is offering a finished generic version of Combivir for just $275.
The small foreign manufacturers have been quietly making copycat medicines to treat cancer, high cholesterol and other ailments for years, but as the AIDS crisis in Africa has intensified, some of them have trumpeted their presence by announcing their rock bottom AIDS drug prices to the world. For instance, Cipla has publicly promised to sell a three-drug cocktail to health care organizations working in Africa for just $350 a year. 
The brand-name companies have responded by cutting prices in Africa and other poor nations. But even many of these discounted prices are still higher than the going price on the shadow generic market.
Bristol-Myers Squibb, another large maker of brand-name AIDS drugs, makes the AIDS drug stavudine, which it sells under the brand name Zerit in the United States for about $3,400 a year.
Last month, Bristol-Myers said it would reduce the price of Zerit in Africa to $55, which it said was below its cost. But one can buy the active ingredients for those pills on the shadow market for about $23. And Cipla is offering a year's supply of finished generic stavudine to health organizations for $40 a year.
GlaxoSmithKline offered to cut its price for Combivir in Africa to $730 a year -- about a tenth of its price in the United States and a price that it says is equal to its manufacturing cost. But $730 is close to three times Cipla's offer.
The big drug companies are reluctant to discuss their prices or the costs of their drugs. But in interviews they said they must charge more than the foreign generic makers because they have many costs the copycat manufacturers do not have, including the cost of finding and developing new medicines.
For instance, GlaxoSmithKline spent $4 billion on research last year, and since 1995, has introduced five drugs for people with H.I.V.
"We can't meet a generic company on price," said Gunther Faber, the director of GlaxoSmithKline's operations in Africa.
But while all brand-name companies spend heavily on research, their financial reports show that many of them spend far more to market and advertise their drugs, while still having enough left over for profits that made them one of the most profitable industries in the United States.
GlaxoSmithKline said in a recent report to investors that it spent 37.2 percent of its revenue on marketing and administrative costs last year, while it spent little more than a third of that amount -- 13.9 percent -- on research. After manufacturing, raw materials and other costs, the company still had 27.8 percent of its revenue left as profit.
And, according to Bristol-Myers Squibb, it spent 30.4 percent of its revenue last year on advertising, marketing and administration, while spending 10.6 percent on research. After other costs, the company had 25.9 percent of revenue left as net income.
"The price the brand-name companies charge has nothing to do with the cost of making the product," said Luciano Calenti, the top executive at ACIC Pharmaceuticals, one of the foreign manufacturers of the generic AIDS drugs.
ACIC, which is based in Brantford, Ontario, is typical of the companies saying they can produce AIDS drugs and sell them for much less than the brand-name manufacturers. The company has been making AZT and three other AIDS medicines for more than a decade, producing big batches and selling them to countries like Brazil, Argentina, Peru and Mexico. ACIC sells the medicines in bulk and does not make the finished pills.
Mr. Calenti said the company's chemists learned how to make AZT by studying the scientific literature. "You interpret and experiment," he said.
At first, making AZT was expensive, he said. But over time, ACIC's chemists have become more efficient, he said, and it now takes about 1 kilogram of raw material to make 1 kilogram of drug, compared with 4 kilograms when ACIC began making the medicine.
In the last few years, ACIC and the other makers of generic AIDS drugs have received their biggest lift from sales to Brazil. Since 1998, Brazil has been buying the active ingredients for AIDS drugs, and then making the pills in government-run factories and providing them free to its citizens.
"Brazil's purchases have been so large that they have brought down the price in the global market," said James Love, director of the Consumer Project on Technology, a nonprofit group in Washington that has been monitoring the international market.
For example, stavudine purchased as a bulk ingredient cost $6,000 to $10,000 a kilogram two years ago, according to Dr. Yusef K. Hamied, managing director of Cipla. Now, as the drug makers have competed and become more efficient, Brazil and other countries can buy stavudine for $800 to $1,000 a kilogram, he said.
Based on the recommended dosage of stavudine, one kilogram would make enough pills to treat about 34 patients for one year.
The brand-name companies say that the foreign manufacturers are unfairly copying medicines that took several years and tens of millions of dollars to develop.
"It is easy to figure out how to make a clock if you can take it apart," said Nancy Pekerek, a spokeswoman for GlaxoSmithKline. "But it's very difficult to make a clock if you don't understand the concept of what a timepiece is."
According to the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, the industry's trade group in Washington, it costs about $500 million to develop a drug, an estimate that includes the cost of research that fails before a useful drug is discovered.
But some patient advocates say the $500 million estimate is too high, especially for the AIDS drugs, many of which were developed with the help of substantial financing from the federal government.
The big drug makers say they must also pay royalties and licensing fees to other companies or universities that helped develop a drug.
Adding to the cost of brand-name medicines are administrative expenses like executive salaries, office space, legal fees and lobbying expenses. The cost of such overhead is often much higher than at generic companies, industry experts say.
And unlike the generic companies, the brand-name companies spend heavily on marketing their products, but these costs vary widely by drug. Companies may spend large sums on advertising campaigns aimed at making consumers interested in drugs that treat relatively minor problems like baldness, or on drugs for which there are several competing treatments. But marketing costs for AIDS drugs tend to be lower because of their high demand and because advocates for AIDS patients rapidly spread information on new drugs.
The brand-name companies also spend millions of dollars making sure they comply with the standards of the Food and Drug Administration. And some industry officials question the quality of the drugs made by some foreign generic manufacturers. "Kids are dying of bad cough medicines in India because they just are not up to standards," said Mark Grayson, a spokesman for PhRMA, as the industry's trade group is known. 
But some of the biggest foreign manufacturers -- including ACIC and Cipla -- have factories that meet standards set by the F.D.A. because they sell their active drug ingredients to companies producing generic and even brand-name medicines for Americans.
"I work with them and against them," Mr. Calenti said of his business dealings with America's brand-name companies.
Wall Street analysts say the price cuts on AIDS drugs will not immediately hurt the brand-name drug companies' bottom lines. The big companies now earn little on the medicines in the poorest countries because so few people there can afford them. According to IMS Health, which tracks pharmaceutical sales, more than 90 percent of the $3.8 billion in worldwide sales of AIDS medicines last year were in just five countries: the United States, France, Italy, Germany and Britain.
In fact, for many of the big companies, AIDS drugs represent only a small part of their total revenue. GlaxoSmithKline, which sells more AIDS drugs than any other company, generated just slightly more than 6 percent of its revenue from such drugs last year.
The greater financial risk for the big drug companies is that the generic companies could find ways to sell other patented, brand-name medicines outside the United States, analysts say.
Richard T. Evans, an analyst with Bernstein Investment Research and Management, said that the generic drug makers might now significantly expand their businesses and become a greater threat to the makers of branded drugs after these larger companies dropped their lawsuit last week against South Africa. "This will not just be limited to Africa," Mr. Evans said.
If the global market for generic drugs grows, Mr. Calenti, for one, would be ready for the business.
"Patents are there to reward the inventor," he said, "not give them a monopoly."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shailesh Pednekar, an executive for Cipla in Bombay, India, holds some of his company's AIDS drugs. Cipla is offering a version of Combivir for $275, compared with the $7,000 charged by GlaxoSmithKline. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C10) Chart: "Undercutting the Market"Brand-name drug companies have cut their prices of AIDS drugs in Africa, saying they will sell the medicines at cost. But many foreign makers of generic drugs are offering their products for even less. BRAND NAME: RetrovirMANUFACTURER: GlaxoSmithKlineANNUAL WHOLESALE COST OF BRAND-NAME DRUGS SOLD IN U.S.: $3,822COMPANY'S DISCOUNT PRICE IN AFRICA PER YEAR: --GENERIC NAME: AZTFOREIGN GENERIC COST OF ACTIVE INGREDIENTS, ANNUALLY*: $149 BRAND NAME: EpivirMANUFACTURER: GlaxoSmithKlineANNUAL WHOLESALE COST OF BRAND-NAME DRUGS SOLD IN U.S.: 3,271COMPANY'S DISCOUNT PRICE IN AFRICA PER YEAR: --GENERIC NAME: 3TCFOREIGN GENERIC COST OF ACTIVE INGREDIENTS, ANNUALLY*: 88 BRAND NAME: CombivirMANUFACTURER: GlaxoSmithKlineANNUAL WHOLESALE COST OF BRAND-NAME DRUGS SOLD IN U.S.: 7,093COMPANY'S DISCOUNT PRICE IN AFRICA PER YEAR: $730GENERIC NAME: Combination of aboveFOREIGN GENERIC COST OF ACTIVE INGREDIENTS, ANNUALLY*: 237 BRAND NAME: ZeritMANUFACTURER: Bristol-Myers SquibbANNUAL WHOLESALE COST OF BRAND-NAME DRUGS SOLD IN U.S.: 3,432COMPANY'S DISCOUNT PRICE IN AFRICA PER YEAR: 55GENERIC NAME: d4T or StavudineFOREIGN GENERIC COST OF ACTIVE INGREDIENTS, ANNUALLY*: 23 BRAND NAME: ViramuneMANUFACTURER: BoehringerANNUAL WHOLESALE COST OF BRAND-NAME DRUGS SOLD IN U.S.: 3,344COMPANY'S DISCOUNT PRICE IN AFRICA PER YEAR: 438GENERIC NAME: NevirapineFOREIGN GENERIC COST OF ACTIVE INGREDIENTS, ANNUALLY*: 175 BRAND NAME: CrixivanMANUFACTURER: MerckANNUAL WHOLESALE COST OF BRAND-NAME DRUGS SOLD IN U.S.: 5,562COMPANY'S DISCOUNT PRICE IN AFRICA PER YEAR: 600GENERIC NAME: IndinavirFOREIGN GENERIC COST OF ACTIVE INGREDIENTS, ANNUALLY*: 1,051 BRAND NAME: SustivaMANUFACTURER: MerckANNUAL WHOLESALE COST OF BRAND-NAME DRUGS SOLD IN U.S.: 4,730COMPANY'S DISCOUNT PRICE IN AFRICA PER YEAR: 500GENERIC NAME: EfavirenzFOREIGN GENERIC COST OF ACTIVE INGREDIENTS, ANNUALLY*: 438 BRAND NAME: VidexMANUFACTURER: Bristol-Myers SquibbANNUAL WHOLESALE COST OF BRAND-NAME DRUGS SOLD IN U.S.: 2,729COMPANY'S DISCOUNT PRICE IN AFRICA PER YEAR: 310GENERIC NAME: DidanosineFOREIGN GENERIC COST OF ACTIVE INGREDIENTS, ANNUALLY*: 175 *Does not include inactive ingredients used in manufacturing or the cost of packaging, marketing and distributing the drugs.(Sources: Company reports; Cipla; 2000 Red Book)(pg. C10) Chart: "Falling Prices"The range of prices for a patient's annual supply of active AIDS drug ingredients made by foreign generic companies has declined as competition has increased. DRUG NAME: AZT1998-1999: $153-1752000-2001: $142-164 DRUG NAME: d4T1998-1999: 175-2922000-2001: 29-43 DRUG NAME: 3TC1998-1999: 548-1,0952000-2001: 82-219 DRUG NAME: Nevirapine1998-1999: 1,022-1,4602000-2001: 219-292(Source: Cipla)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (96%); AIDS & HIV (95%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (90%); DRUG PRICES (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); ANTIVIRALS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (78%); PATENTS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); CANCER (73%); CANCER DRUGS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); ONCOLOGY (64%); CHOLESTEROL (51%); HEALTH CARE (50%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); GENERIC AND BRAND NAME PRODUCTS; STAVUDINE (DRUG); INVENTIONS AND PATENTS; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; RESEARCH; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (91%); CIPLA LTD (86%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (74%)

ORGANIZATION: GLAXOSMITHKLINE; CIPLA LTD; BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO 

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (91%); GSK (LSE) (91%); BIOC (EGX) (91%); CIPLA (NSE) (86%); BMY (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (74%)

PERSON: PETERSEN, MELODY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (73%) INDIA (94%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



686 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1498 words

HEADLINE: Industry Gives Nuclear Power A Second Look 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., April 20 

 BODY:
Some regions of the country are short of electric power, and the price of natural gas, the most popular fuel for new power plants, has doubled. Windmills look promising but still produce only a tiny amount of power; solar power is even less significant.
 Nuclear reactors are now so desirable that when old ones go on sale, bidding wars have broken out. And the Bush administration's energy plan, scheduled for release soon, is expected to include strong support for new reactor construction. 
 Does that mean it is time to order new ones? 
Not quite, according to a number of experts gathered at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology here to talk about the role of technology in a time of growing electric demand and increased concern about pollution. But after a 30-year hiatus, the time may be drawing closer.
"There's some change in the wind," said Charles M. Vest, president of M.I.T., helping to open a two-day International Symposium on the Role of Nuclear Energy in a Sustainable Environment, sponsored by the university's Center for Advanced Nuclear Systems. Experts from France, Japan, Russia and the United States discussed designs that might be feasible in 30 years, or in 3 years. 
The group acknowledged obvious problems, like the fact that this country has still not decided what to do with reactor waste, but presumed that either a burial spot would be found or plants would be built to break down the waste or reuse it.
The industry's trade association, the Nuclear Energy Institute, has assembled a task force on new nuclear deployment, which has met four times to draw up a business plan for new reactors. Participants include five companies that either operate or have recently bought plants -- Dominion Resources of Virginia, Entergy of New Orleans, Exelon of Chicago, Constellation Energy of Maryland and the Southern Company of Georgia.
Industry executives say that the first new order for a reactor, if it comes, is likely to be at a site where other plants are already operating and the neighbors are used to a nuclear installation.
As for what a new plant might look like, a great deal has changed since 1973, when the last plant that was not later canceled was ordered, and even since 1996, when the last one was finished. Experts say the designs or construction techniques of the 1970's are no more likely to return than other wonders of that era, like the Boeing 727 or the Saturn V rocket.
One possibility is the "pebble bed" design, which circulates uranium fuel pellets shaped like billiard balls through the reactor and generates only about one-tenth as much heat per square foot as a conventional reactor. As a result, supporters assert that it cannot have a meltdown. The fuel balls in the pebble bed design are replaced as needed, but the reactor never has to shut down for refueling.
The Exelon Corporation, which owns 17 reactors in this country, joined a partnership with a South African utility, Eskom, another South African company and BNFL, formerly known as British Nuclear Fuels, to build one in South Africa. Exelon has asked the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to look at this design, but has not announced plans to build one in the United States.
Other possible new designs range from simplified, refined versions of the Westinghouse and General Electric models in service today to the pebble bed. The regulatory commission approved new Westinghouse and General Electric designs in the late 1990's, and that, in itself, is a change; designs for the current generation of plants were not approved until the plants were built, sometimes leading to licensing delays. 
The nuclear division of Westinghouse, now owned by BNFL, says that its design has 60 percent fewer moving parts -- with fewer pumps, wires and pipes -- and that there is less to build and less to go wrong. It also has stairs in places where older designs had ladders, to accommodate an aging nuclear power plant work force. 
A new General Electric design is also meant to be simpler and safer. In 1996 a utility in Japan completed a reactor that resembled the design approved by American regulators.
But other changes since the 1970's do not bode well for new reactor construction. In those days, the utilities that built generating stations were regulated monopolies that could take on large projects with the assurance that their customers would pay the price almost no matter what it was.
"Somebody else was paying for your mistakes," said David Lochbaum, a nuclear reactor expert at the Union of Concerned Scientists, a nonprofit safety group, who did not attend the meeting here. Now, most power plants are built by unregulated suppliers that could be bankrupted by the cost overruns that were common when the last of the 103 reactors still running were completed. 
The unregulated companies prefer plants that can be put up quickly, with less financial risk.
Nuclear waste is a more pressing problem than when the first plants were built. California, for example, has made it illegal to begin new reactors until the waste problem is solved. In every state, that will be an argument. The Energy Department was supposed to begin accepting spent fuel from reactors in 1998, but work on its proposed permanent repository, Yucca Mountain, near Las Vegas, has been slow. So far scientists have not ruled on its suitability.
In addition, there are promising competitors, including windmills and fuel cells. Even though President Bush's budget proposes cuts in money available to research alternative forms of energy, many researchers are pursuing new technologies. And energy planners have been wrong for decades in prematurely predicting the end of oil, gas and coal. 
"When everybody in this room dies, fossil fuels are going to be abundant and inexpensive," said Michael W. Golay, a nuclear engineering professor here, to a gathering of about 40 nuclear experts.
Supporters say that with improved reliability and design, the new generation of reactors will be less expensive to operate than the competing sources of electricity, coal and natural gas. But the numbers remain somewhat speculative. 
Still, the industry is getting a second look, for some of the same reasons nuclear power seemed attractive in the 1960's and 70's. Supporters argue that fossil fuel supplies are limited, that the United States should be developing technology to help the world electrify, and that pollution, especially emissions linked to global climate change, is a concern. 
Still, the industry was not helped by Mr. Bush's decision to drop the Kyoto accord on limiting carbon dioxide emissions.
But another recent development has helped: the rise in the price of natural gas. About 90 percent of the plants built in the last 10 years use natural gas, but in California last winter, the price of that fuel reached $60 per million British thermal units, equivalent to oil at about $350 a barrel, or about seven times the current price, and some analysts expect it to stay in the range of $4 to $6 per million B.T.U., up from $2 to $3 a year ago. 
In response, some companies have announced plans to build coal-burning plants, but these require costly pollution controls, and even then, they will emit sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides, which cause acid rain and smog. The plants also produce carbon dioxide, which may eventually be regulated as a contributor to global climate change. 
Environmental advocates call for investments in efficiency, and in "renewable" sources like wind and solar, but so far those sources are tiny compared with demand. The Chernobyl nuclear accident in Ukraine was 15 years ago, and Three Mile Island was 22 years ago; meanwhile, American reactors are operating with a record low level of minor incidents, and producing more power than ever. Plants are having their 40-year licenses extended for 20 years.
The result, said Paul Jaskow, a former chairman of the economics department at M.I.T. and an expert on regulated industries, is that "there has not been a better time for nuclear power in the last 25 years."
But Mr. Jaskow, analyzing the recent power plant sales and separating the components, like long-term power purchase agreements, trust funds for reactor decommissioning, and sale of nuclear fuel, concluded, that "none of these deals even comes close to covering the book costs."
"You couldn't justify paying $2,000 or $3,000 per kilowatt for those plants," he said, referring to the price per unit capacity. 
Supporters say they could build plants for about $1,000 per kilowatt of capacity, but similar claims in the 1960's and 70's were way off, and nearly bankrupted some utilities.
The regulatory commission has simplified the licensing procedure, to reduce the possibility of lengthy delays, but industry experts are skeptical because the new procedure has not been used. 
Investors would have to expect a huge competitive benefit from nuclear plants to risk putting money in a new one, Mr. Jaskow said, "because of the significant possibility of coming up with a dry hole."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 28, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Tuesday about a resurgence of interest in nuclear power included a company erroneously among members of a task force on new nuclear deployment set up by the industry's trade association, the Nuclear Energy Institute. Constellation Energy of Maryland is not a member. 
The article also misspelled the surname of a former economics chairman at M.I.T. who said this was a good time for nuclear power. He is Paul L. Joskow, not Jaskow.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The energy policy of the Bush administration is expected to support nuclear plant construction. But obstacles remain to a resumption of building reactors. (Evan Richman for The New York Times)(pg. C1); One obstacle to nuclear plant construction has been delays in finishing the proposed waste site at Yucca Mountain near Las Vegas. (Associated Press)(pg. C11) Chart: "Faded Promise"Nuclear power was hailed as a source of cheap and safe electricity when introduced in the 1950's, and construction boomed in the 1960's and 70's. But increasing costs and public concern about safety hobbled new construction. Advocates say new technology and changing economics could lead to the first new orders for reactors since 1978. NUMBER OF COMMERCIAL NUCLEAR POWER REACTORS OPERATING IN THE UNITED STATES 1953 -- U.S. government and Duquesne Light order the first commercial reactor in Shippingport, Pa. 1973 -- Arizona Public Service makes the last reactor order that is not later canceled. 1978 -- Commonwealth Edison in Chicago places the last order in the United States, which it cancels in 1990. 1979 -- Accident at Three Mile Island plant near Harrisburg, Pa. 1983 -- Congress kills breeder-reactor program intended to make fuel. 1986 -- Accident at the Chernobyl plant in Ukraine. 1996 -- The last new commercial reactor in the U.S., ordered in 1970, opens in Tennessee. 2000 -- Regulators extend the license of the Calvert Cliffs reactor in Maryland by 20 years. 2001 -- Vice President Dick Cheney says new reactors can ease global warming.(Source: Energy Information Administration)(pg. C1) Chart/Map: "Where the Plants Are"There are 103 nuclear power plants operating in 32 states. Map shows nuclear reactors in operation. Percent of electricity in each state generated by nuclear. Map shows percentage of nuclear power used in each state.(Source: Nuclear Regulatory Commission; Nuclear Energy Institute)(pg. C11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); WIND ENERGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NUCLEAR WASTE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); BUSINESS PLANS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (73%); ENERGY DEMAND (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (52%) ATOMIC ENERGY; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; NUCLEAR WASTES 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN CO (84%); ENTERGY CORP (58%); DOMINION RESOURCES INC (53%); BOEING CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (59%)

TICKER: SO (NYSE) (84%); ETR (NYSE) (58%); D (NYSE) (53%); BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (53%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (53%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (56%) WALD, MATTHEW L; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (90%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



687 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: BOLDFACE NAMES 

BYLINE:  By James Barron With Eric Lipton G. S. Bourdain, Kelly Crow and Florence Fabricant 

 BODY:
When I'm Rich, I Want to Be . . .
 MAYOR RUDOLPH W. GIULIANI had more sweet things to say yesterday about MICHAEL R. BLOOMBERG, the billionaire Democrat-turned-Republican who wants the mayor's support -- and maybe his job. This was after Mr. Bloomberg, below, told Newsweek that "Rudy's job is the best" and that he would do it for only $1 a year. Never mind the millions he is willing to spend to get the job. 
 Mr. Giuliani laughed off the idea of declining his $195,000-a-year salary. "I wish I could do it," he said, and turned to another topic raised by Newsweek -- what the three other best jobs in the world are. 
Mr. Bloomberg, according to Newsweek, mentioned secretary general of United Nations, president of the World Bank and of course, president. Of the United States, that is.
Mr. Giuliani, an opera fanatic, listed general manager of the Metropolitan Opera where Mr. Bloomberg listed GEORGE W. BUSH'S job. He also said it was "probably way too early to decide" whether he would endorse Mr. Bloomberg.

All Verdi, a Fifth of the Time
To pay tribute to Verdi on the 100th anniversary of his death, the Metropolitan Opera Guild invited four dozen singers who appeared in his operas at the Met to a lunch at the Waldorf-Astoria on Friday. 
The guest list went from LICIA ALBANESE to VIRGINIA ZEANI, and chronologically from Miss Albanese, who made her Met debut in 1940, to MARK DELAVAN, a baritone with only one season under his belt. Singers like MARTINA ARROYO, OLGA BORODINA,PLACIDO DOMINGO, LAUREN FLANIGAN, ROBERT MERRILL, ANNA MOFFO and REGINA RESNIK were sprinkled at various tables around the Grand Ballroom. 
JOSEPH VOLPE, who has the general manager job that Mr. Giuliani likes so much, noted that in the Met's 118 years, one-fifth of its performances have been works of Verdi.
"In more concrete terms," he said, "it's as if, for a period of 23 years, we gave nothing else but performances of Verdi, seven times a week."

A Not-So-Instant Message
AL GORE, who was said to have spent part of election night reading and replying to e-mail messages on a two-way pager, seems to have a less wired staff these days. When Global Green USA began planning a party that it says will bring together MIKHAIL S. GORBACHEV, BILL MOYERS and his wife, JUDITH DAVIDSON MOYERS, and the prime minister of Iceland, DAVID ODDSSON, it sent an invitation to Mr. Gore the old-fashioned way. A spokesman for Global Green said it was returned by the Postal Service, so the planners called Mr. Gore's office and offered to send it by e-mail. "We don't have e-mail -- here is our fax number," they were told.

A Quarterback With Yards to Go
JOE NAMATH is sleeping through the night again.
Until last year, his aching thumbs -- yes, his thumbs -- kept him up. So did his back and his left hip. And his famous knees, now mostly metal?
Pop. Pop. "Hear that?" he said, flexing one, then the other. The conversation turned to new treatments for fellow arthritis sufferers. He also talked about the New York Jets' "disgusting" season last year and how he expected good things from the team's new coach, HERMAN EDWARDS. "I've always planned to live until 100," said Mr. Namath, 57, "because a lot of great plays are made in the third and fourth quarters. And see? I'm just starting the third."

A Grand Merci
How do the French feel about American foie gras? Pretty good, apparently. On Friday, ARIANE DAGUIN, the French-born co-owner of D'Artagnan, a Newark-based foie gras and game company, was made a chevalier in France's Order of Merit by Consul General RICHARD DUQUE.
Later, Ms. Daguin was about to take a D'Artagnanesque sword in hand to slice off the top of the cork on a magnum of Champagne in musketeer fashion. But the cork flew off of its own accord before she could attack it.

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MAYORS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (88%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (84%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); THEATER COMPANIES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); INSTANT MESSAGING (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (53%); POSTAL SERVICE (50%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; OPERA; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ELECTRONIC MAIL; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN OPERA GUILD (82%); UNITED NATIONS (56%) METROPOLITAN OPERA GUILD 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%); RUDY GIULIANI (91%); AL GORE (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); DAVID ODDSSON (50%) BARRON, JAMES; LIPTON, ERIC; BOURDAIN, G S; CROW, KELLY; FABRICANT, FLORENCE; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); VERDI, GIUSEPPE (1813-1901); GORE, AL; DAGUIN, ARIANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ICELAND (79%) NEW YORK CITY; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



688 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: BUSH IS OFFERING TAIWAN SOME ARMS BUT NOT THE BEST 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 23 

 BODY:
President Bush has decided to offer Taiwan a range of advanced weapons, including eight diesel submarines and four guided-missile destroyers that China has long sought to block, but he has declined, at least for now, to sell the Taiwanese a far more sophisticated class of ships whose advanced radar systems could counter China's growing military power.
 Mr. Bush's decision, described tonight by senior White House officials, takes the diplomatically cautious path advocated by advisers inside and outside the administration who have warned the president about the dangers of a further escalation of tensions with Beijing. But the list of older yet sophisticated arms that Mr. Bush will tell Taiwan it is free to purchase includes aircraft, helicopters, torpedos and anti-ship missiles that could vastly improve Taiwan's navy. 
 "The only consideration here was the threat that Taiwan faces," a senior administration official said tonight, as White House aides began informing members of Congress about the decision, which will be officially conveyed to Taiwanese officials in a meeting with Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld on Tuesday. 
"There was no link to the EP-3E incident," a senior administration official said, referring to the 11-day detention of the crew of an American spy plane. China is still holding the plane on Hainan island, where it made an emergency landing on April 1, leading to Mr. Bush's first confrontation with the Chinese leadership.
That confrontation has intensified the scrutiny of Mr. Bush's first decision on what kind of arms to sell the new, democratically elected government on Taiwan. But in the end, Mr. Bush chose to send a mixed signal to Beijing. Though the sale of some weapons will undoubtedly irritate China, Mr. Bush's decision to defer the sale of destroyers that use the advanced Aegis radar defense system appears to be part of an effort to prevent the outbreak of an arms race between China and the island that it regards as a renegade province.
Taiwan may end up buying less than it is offered, and must now begin the process of deciding how much of the American package it can afford.
Mr. Bush's decision conforms almost exactly to the recommendation made to him last week by a team of senior deputies in the Defense and State Departments. Mr. Rumsfeld and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell agreed with their conclusions, the senior official said, adding that "the only real debate was how to word the deferral" of the sale of the Aegis system.
Taiwanese officials will be told on Tuesday that they may be permitted to purchase the system in the future, if China continues building up its ability to threaten Taiwan with air and submarine forces. A study conducted by the administration in preparation for the decision concluded that by 2005, China could have more than 60 submarines, including four quiet-running diesel submarines with advanced weapons it recently purchased from Russia.
"We are going to leave open all possibilities in case there is an assessment in the future that the threat has worsened," the official said.
 In Taiwan, news of the administration's decision came early Tuesday morning on the state-run Central News Agency. There was no immediate response from Taiwan's government, as President Chen Shui-bian had ordered his officials to keep silent after the foreign minister was quoted in a recent interview as saying Taiwan could live without the Aegis technology. 
Past American presidents have declined to sell diesel submarines to Taiwan for fear they would be considered offensive weapons by China, violating the spirit, if not the letter, of Washington's understandings with Beijing. But after extensive discussion with his aides on Friday, and in continuing talks during his trip to Quebec over the weekend, Mr. Bush was convinced that Taiwan needed a more up-to-date submarine capability to defend against China's expanding sea power. Left unchecked, his advisers say, China's growing naval and air power eventually could empower it to threaten Taiwan with an economic blockade.
Still, Mr. Bush's decision is bound to anger many conservatives in his party, who had hoped that his election would result in far more aggressive support for Taiwan, and a far tougher stance against China's rapid military expansion. But ever since word of the deputies' recommendation leaked out last week, the White House and leading Republicans have been trying to tamp down any internal dissent.
In their briefings on Capitol Hill today, for example, administration officials pointed out that the sale of eight submarines -- which will have to be produced by German or Dutch manufacturers because the United States no longer makes diesel-powered subs -- were part of a broader new defense strategy for Taiwan.
The submarine sale is conditioned on Taiwan's agreement to buy P-3C submarine-hunting aircraft as part of what a senior official called a "layered, integrated approach to antisubmarine warfare." The four Kidd-class destroyers technology use technology that is two decades old. But the ships Taiwan will receive are mothballed models that the Navy is no longer using, meaning they can be up and running in just two years. 
"It seemed to us," one of Mr. Bush's advisers said tonight, "that getting them a good system fast was more important than getting them the best system very slowly."
Nonetheless, some conservative Republicans expressed disappointment tonight at the administration's decision. 
"George W. has shown a lot more moxie than Clinton, but he hasn't gone as far as some us would have liked," Representative Dana Rohrabacher, a California Republican on the House International Relations Committee, said in a telephone interview.
But several influential Senate Republicans praised the administration's decision as striking the right balance between fulfilling American obligations to provide for Taiwan's defense and not inflaming tensions with China. 
Senator Jesse Helms, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and one of China's harshest critics, issued a statement tonight praising Mr. Bush for "taking the critical matter of Taiwan's defense seriously." But he added that he was "unalterably persuaded that the sale of Aegis destroyers is also justified in light of the outrageous actions of the leaders in Beijing."
Senator John W. Warner, a Virginia Republican who heads the Armed Services Committee, said, for instance, that the Kidd-class destroyers represented "a significant incremental enhancement of Taiwan's navy; it allows them to learn to train with a larger ship." 
Mr. Warner said he had recommended deferring for a year any decision on selling Taiwan the Arleigh Burke-class destroyers, which are equipped with the Aegis radar system. 
Last month, before the collision over the South China Sea, administration officials hinted to a few members of Congress that Taiwan was unlikely to get the Aegis system, but would be offered a long shopping list of other arms. Like past presidents, Mr. Bush will cast these arms as defensive in nature, though many could also be used for offensive purposes. 
By all accounts, Mr. Bush and his aides did not revisit that decision after the collision and the standoff over the fate of the spy plane's 24 crew members. But the incident certainly affected the environment in which he had to make his final decision. One wing of his party -- the "engagement" wing that urges closer business ties with China to moderate its behavior -- urged Mr. Bush to use the sale to send a conciliatory message to Beijing. Conservatives urged just the opposite.
"It makes no sense to let one incident like that determine your China policy," one administration aide deeply involved in the decision said last week. "That would be crazy." 
But he added that "we've gotten a lot of free advice," he said, mostly from conservative Republicans, "to do exactly that."
Administration officials offered several reasons for deferring the Aegis sale. The first was the most practical: The system cannot be delivered and fielded by Taiwan until 2010, meaning that China would have plenty of time to build up its air and missile ability to overwhelm it.
There was also concern that Taiwan's military was not yet skilled enough to make use of the system. 
Moreover, aides concluded that much could be done to strengthen Taiwan's defenses without selling the high-profile Aegis.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Arms to Taiwan"Weapons the Bush administration will offer to sell to Taiwan, according to the White House. Four Kidd-class destroyers, to be ready by 2003.12 P-3C Orion aircraft.Eight diesel-powered submarines.Paladin self-propelled artillery system.MH-53E minesweeping helicopters.AAV7A1 amphibious assault vehicles.Mk 48 torpedoes without advanced features.Avenger surface-to-air missile system.Submarine-launched and surface-launched torpedoes.Aircraft survivability equipment.The United States also will give Taiwan a technical briefing on the Patriot antimissile system the island has been developing. (Sources: Associated Press)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); RADAR SYSTEMS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); ARMS RACE (78%); NAVIES (78%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); HELICOPTERS (69%); ESPIONAGE (68%) SUBMARINES; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; NAVIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RADAR; DESTROYERS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); HAINAN, CHINA (58%) TAIWAN (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%) TAIWAN; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



689 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: The Selling of Free Trade 

 BODY:
The Summit of the Americas concluded Sunday with a call to create a free-trade area linking the hemisphere's democracies and their 800 million people by Jan. 1, 2005. Now comes the hard part -- turning that laudable abstraction into a concrete deal. Though a draft of an agreement will be published shortly, negotiating its details should prove challenging. 
 This is especially true in light of the fact that Brazil, by far South America's largest economy, has serious misgivings about exposing its manufacturers to full-blown competition and views Washington's anti-dumping laws and farm subsidies as formidable restraints to free trade. Venezuela is also less than enthusiastic, and was the only country to abstain from embracing the deadline. The United States should make a bilateral deal with Chile as soon as possible to provide the process of hemispheric integration with some momentum and to counter Brazil's and Venezuela's protectionism. 
 For President Bush, who considers relations with Latin America one of his top priorities, simply getting the necessary fast-track authority from Congress to negotiate an amendment-proof deal is shaping up to be a major test of his presidency. The administration, to its credit, has recognized that it will have to navigate between most Democrats' justifiable insistence that any new trade deals incorporate meaningful environmental and labor standards, on the one hand, and developing nations' resentment of such linkage on the other. 
That task, daunting under the best of circumstances, will become only more difficult if the economic slowdown intensifies. At home, rising unemployment could further embolden protectionists to oppose any trade deal, and the prospect of a financial crisis and stagnant growth in Latin America could well unleash a backlash there against free markets and economic liberalization. 
In the president's first major outing on the global scene, his performance in Quebec was a bit shaky. In his speech Saturday he rightly said that the trade proposal must be matched by "a strong commitment to protecting our environment and improving labor standards." But then later Mr. Bush said any agreement should focus on commerce and should include no codicils that destroy "the spirit of free trade." That made it sound as if environmental and labor protections could be jettisoned in the name of commerce after all. 
Mr. Bush will be making a big mistake if he fails to recognize that there is a strong constituency for protecting the environment and ensuring greater fairness in wages and working conditions as economic development goes forward. If he is to succeed as a free-trade proponent, which we hope he does, he must define more clearly how he proposes to achieve an agreement that will promote trade while ensuring that nations cannot engage in a "race to the bottom" by diluting their environmental regulations and labor laws to seek unfair trade advantages and attract investment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (55%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EDITORIALS; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



690 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: Back in Texas, Bush's Legacy Comes Under Fire 

BYLINE:  By JIM YARDLEY 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., April 23 

 BODY:
Even though he is no longer governor, George W. Bush is having an unusually tough time with the Texas Legislature. Many of the same lawmakers who passed tax cuts championed by Mr. Bush are now talking about future tax increases. Legislators in both parties agree that the state's charter schools, one of Mr. Bush's pet programs, need to be fixed.
 His signature environmental initiative is regarded as weak, and legislators are debating how much it should be toughened. Lawmakers also are considering easing enrollment requirements in Medicaid -- a move resisted during Mr. Bush's tenure -- so more poor children can be covered. And lawmakers are moving forward on several death penalty fronts, including a bill similar to one Mr. Bush vetoed two years ago that sponsors say would help provide better lawyers for indigent defendants. 
 Just today, the Texas House of Representatives gave preliminary approval to a bill that would ban the execution of mentally retarded inmates, a measure that failed in the House two years ago after Mr. Bush spoke out against it. 
These days, of course, Mr. Bush's attentions are on Congress, not the Texas Capitol. But only three months after Mr. Bush left for Washington, the agenda he left behind in Texas is under varying degrees of repair and re-examination, with some lawmakers attributing the changes to pressures brought by the negative attention focused on the state during the presidential race. 
"The presidential campaign made us take a good look at ourselves in the mirror," said State Senator Rodney G. Ellis, the Houston Democrat who has emerged as a power broker on budget and criminal justice issues. "And we didn't like everything we saw."
Not even Mr. Bush's enemies would argue that his agenda is being rolled back, particularly since many of the bills wending through the Capitol could stall before the Legislature adjourns on May 28. His allies say the rhythms of the Legislature, which only meets every two years, make such tweaking typical. 
But the differences between this legislative session and the 1999 session are striking. Then, lawmakers in both parties agree, Mr. Bush's unannounced but looming presidential campaign cast a shadow over every legislative vote as his Capitol allies sought to protect him from politically sensitive bills. 
Most notably, Mr. Bush's supporters in the State Senate quashed a contentious bill increasing penalties for hate crimes that was opposed by many conservatives because it included protections for gays.
This year, though, any inhibitions on considering controversial legislation appear to be gone under Mr. Bush's successor, Gov. Rick Perry, a fellow Republican. This morning, the Democratic-controlled House passed the hate crimes legislation, setting up another showdown in the Republican-controlled State Senate.
Legislative committees have endorsed previously unthinkable resolutions calling for a public referendum on whether to impose a two-year moratorium on the death penalty. The resolutions are given little chance of final passage, but supporters say the committee votes signal a major shift in attitudes.
"The climate is different basically because Perry is not running for president and Bush was," said State Senator Eduardo A. Lucio, Jr., a Democrat from Brownsville, who is sponsoring a bill that would allow juries to impose sentences of life without parole. "Bush's actions and the way he handled some things reflected that." 
During the presidential campaign, Mr. Bush repeatedly defended the fairness of the capital punishment system in Texas, which leads the nation in executions. But this year the Legislature has already passed -- and Mr. Perry has signed -- a measure providing access to DNA testing for prison inmates and criminal defendants. (During the campaign, Mr. Bush said he supported DNA testing.) The bill to improve indigent legal defense -- similar to the one Mr. Bush vetoed -- has passed the Senate and is given a good chance in the House.
Last week, the Senate passed a bill increasing the amount of money paid by the state to anyone wrongly imprisoned. Mr. Lucio's life-without-parole bill, which languished in committee in 1999, is expected to be voted on soon by the full Senate.
Lawmakers have also focused attention on some of the environmental issues that former Vice President Al Gore tried to use against Mr. Bush in the campaign. In a marathon debate on Thursday, the Texas House considered two amendments to tighten a loophole that has allowed roughly 700 outdated industrial plants to operate without pollution permits for three decades. In 1999, Mr. Bush pushed through a plan -- written largely by industry representatives -- that allowed these plants to apply voluntarily for permits. But state statistics have shown that only one company has obtained a permit so far.
In the House debate, members argued that tougher enforcement was needed but ultimately approved the weaker of the two amendments. The measure will require the so-called grandfathered plants to seek pollution permits by 2005 or 2007, depending on their location.
Two of Mr. Bush's signature educational initiatives are also having problems. On the campaign trail, Mr. Bush often talked about passing a law that would end social promotion in Texas by 2003. But a House committee has already passed a bill that would delay that law to give students more time to adjust to the new, tougher statewide standardized test. 
Meanwhile, the full House has already passed a bill that would place a moratorium on new charter schools and require stricter oversight of existing ones after a spate of fiscal scandals.
"What happened was we gave too much leeway," said Representative Kip Averitt, a Waco Republican who said he voted for the charter schools moratorium as a corrective measure. "Leeway is what we want, but we also want fiscal accountability." 
Like most other Republicans, Mr. Averitt said he still supported initiatives advocated by Mr. Bush, including the $2.9 billion in tax cuts passed in 1997 and 1999. Of the legislative activity now under way, he added, "I would submit to you that we'll do some stuff this time that we'll have to come back a fix in a few years." 
The fundamental change now facing lawmakers is the suddenly pinched state budget and the increasing demand for state services like Medicaid, road improvements, water projects and a statewide health insurance plan for teachers. Republicans like Mr. Averitt say the slowing economy, not the tax cuts, are to blame. But State Senator Chris Harris, a Republican from Arlington, has introduced a bill proposing a constitutional amendment to repeal the 1997 tax cuts, while Mr. Lucio has offered a bill to roll back the tax cuts from 1999. 
Neither bill is expected to pass, but some political analysts believe that the tax cuts are hampering the state's ability to meet pent-up needs.
"We left ourselves no margin of safety," said Dick Lavine, a senior policy analyst with the Center for Public Policy Priorities, a nonprofit group in Austin, that examines budget issues. "Texas has failed to make the long-term investments it needed for many, many years. But now we don't even have the money we need to maintain the low level of service we needed in the past." 
In fact, the Senate has already passed a bill that would streamline Medicaid enrollment requirements to help bring coverage to the 600,000 poor children in the state who are eligible but not enrolled. But Mr. Ellis, who is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said the problem was finding the money to pay for such an expansion.
A final budget is currently being hammered out by a joint House-Senate committee. Mr. Ellis and other lawmakers are already talking quietly about tax increases, if not this year, then in 2003.
Mr. Perry, who is positioning himself to run for governor in 2002, has a complicated job as the protector of Mr. Bush's legacy. He has already signaled that he does not want a moratorium on charter schools, even as the bill appears to be moving toward passage. On the other hand, he has suggested that he might sign an indigent defense bill and support other changes in death penalty legislation.
After a recent public appearance, Mr. Perry deflected any suggestion of an erosion of support for Mr. Bush's policies.
"I think there's always folks who try to second-guess concepts and ideas," he said. "That's kind of standard territory. So, I think the test will be, does any of this transpire, which I don't think it will."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 27, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Tuesday with an article about Texas legislators' reappraisal of George W. Bush's legacy as governor misidentifed a state lawmaker who discussed environmental legislation. He was Representative Warren Chisum of Pampa, not Wayne Christian of Center.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Texas lawmakers are battling over efforts to toughen environmental legislation introduced by President Bush when governor. Representative Wayne Christian of Center made a point recently as others waited to speak. (Associated Press)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CRIMINAL LAW (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); REFERENDUMS (76%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); MEDICAID (72%); LAWYERS (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); CONSERVATISM (64%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (57%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (56%); MENTAL RETARDATION (53%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; GOVERNORS (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); RICK PERRY (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); YARDLEY, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) TEXAS; 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



691 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Compaq to Cut More Jobs As Profit Comes Up Short
Compaq Computer reported first-quarter earnings that missed Wall Street's already lowered expectations by a penny. The company also said it would eliminate 2,000 more jobs than it had announced last month, increasing its cuts to 10 percent of its work force.
 Compaq made the cuts because of a steep decline in sales in the United States. But it cited double-digit growth in Europe and Asia as a sign of encouragement. Page C4. 

Nasdaq Falls in Technology Slump
Technology stocks declined as money managers shifted holdings into more cautious issues after two weeks of gains by the main market gauges. The Nasdaq composite index fell 104.09 points, or 4.8 percent, to 2,059.32. The Dow Jones industrial average declined 47.62 points, or 0.5 percent, to 10,532.23, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 18.62 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,224.36. C12.

Earnings Increase 18% at PepsiCo
PepsiCo said that its net income rose 18 percent, its sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings growth, as sales gained 8 percent. The results beat Wall Street expectations by a penny. Shares of PepsiCo rose $1.01, to $42.27, and after years of trailing behind are catching up to those of its main rival, Coca-Cola, which gained 45 cents, to $47.45. C7.

First Look Inside New Jeep Plant
Chrysler opened the $700 million Jeep Liberty factory in Toledo, Ohio, to journalists for the first time and announced that it would greatly increase production of the hot-selling Chrysler PT Cruiser by expanding a factory in Mexico instead of using one in Illinois. C6.

Verizon Seeks Connecticut Service
Verizon Communications said that it would seek permission from federal regulators to offer long-distance telephone service in Connecticut, an initiative aimed at building on the company's modest foothold there. C6.

Top Limit Sought for StarLink Corn
The developer of genetically modified StarLink corn asked the government to set an upper limit for the amount of the grain that would be acceptable in the food supply. C4.

Researcher Threatened With Suit
The recording industry has threatened a Princeton computer scientist with legal action if his research group presents a paper at a conference this week describing how to circumvent a music-protection system. C4.

3M to Cut 7% of Its Work Force
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, reacting to the slowing economy with a pre-emptive strike, said that it would cut 7 percent of its work force, or about 5,000 jobs. "In this uncertain environment, we are focused on the things that we can control," said W. James McNerney Jr., 3M's chief executive. The company also posted a 7 percent decline in first-quarter net income. C7.

Hasbro Posts Loss for Quarter
Hasbro reported that it lost $25 million in its most recent quarter as it struggled to manage the decline in popularity of the Pokemon trading card without a hot toy to replace it. It said its revenue plunged 40 percent. C9.

CNBC.com to Be Merged With MSN
Continuing to scale back its exposure to the Internet, NBC said that it would merge its CNBC.com site into the personal finance area of Microsoft's MSN site. C2.

Morgan Stanley Plans Layoffs
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter is expected to begin dismissing as much as 3 percent of its work force today. C9.

Editor of New York Post Steps Down
Officials at The New York Post said that the newspaper's editor, Xana Antunes, had stepped down and would be replaced by Col Allan, the head of two of its parent company's newspapers in Australia. B9.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,532.23 down 47.62Nasdaq composite -- 2,059.32 down 104.0910-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.18% down 0.11The euro -- $0.8977 down 0.0049The dollar -- 121.22 yen down 1.34 Graph shows shares of PepsiCo for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (88%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); RECORD REVENUES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (63%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); PEPSICO INC (55%); COCA-COLA CO (54%); 3M CO (51%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); PEP (NYSE) (55%); KO (NYSE) (54%); MMM (SWX) (51%); MMM (NYSE) (51%); MMM (FRA) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (51%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (51%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (51%)

PERSON: JAMES MCNERNEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (54%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



692 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Style Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Front Row; 
A sportswear line online from Galliano An auction of gowns by the mystery designer of that vintage yellow chiffon Oscar dress.

BYLINE:  By Ginia Bellafante 

 BODY:
Galliano's Girl Turns Up on the Net
 Last week, John Galliano, teeth as white as a wedding dress, turned up at the Christian Dior offices overlooking Central Park and found himself in front of a computer. His graffiti-printed jacket was unzipped to reveal an upper chest on which no drop of the world's baby oil supply had apparently been spared. 
 The essence of techno-savvy he did not convey. In fact, when asked if he had much experience with that premillennial invention, the Internet, he responded, "I'm starting to." 
All the same, Mr. Galliano was here to promote a new sportswear line he's created that will be sold exclusively on eLuxury.com, an online retailer owned by LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, which carries the necessary objects of the status-minded set: La Prairie skin cream, Bottega Veneta handbags and Earl jeans.
Beginning today, it will offer Galliano's Girl, a collection of $350 handbags, $160 orange tank tops printed with the striking image of a model (called the Internet girl) and $600 bias-cut gowns. 
Any woman wishing to have a bathing suit with the brand name John Galliano displayed across the buttocks will be able to take advantage of an opportunity here.
With all the excitement of someone still holding stock in, say, the Cisco Corporation, Mr. Galliano explained his concept with utterances like, "I wanted the fabrication to be readable on the Internet."
He sat and watched as his associate, Delphine Arnault, the high-cheekboned daughter of LVMH's chairman, Bernard Arnault, provided the actual online tour. Ms. Arnault, who used to work in the Paris offices of McKinsey & Company, the management consultants, is now employed in brand development at Mr. Galliano's company, a line in which her father has made a big investment.
Ms. Arnault is also at work planning Mr. Galliano's first store, to open in Paris, as well as a perfume.
She does not seem deterred by the gloomy economic climate for online shopping. "It's important for a brand like ours to be on the Internet," Ms. Arnault said. "The Internet is the future."

Shedding Light on Jean Desses Gowns
"Who is this Jean Desses?" This is a question Louis LeB. Webre, marketing director of William Doyle Galleries, has been hearing a lot since Renee Zellweger turned up at the Oscars in that yellow chiffon dress. Ms. Zellweger wore a drapy Jean Desses gown she bought at Lily, the well-known vintage clothing store in Beverly Hills. 
Before it made its way to Lily, however, the gown was sold for $9,000 at an auction at William Doyle in 1997. "That's an amazing price at auction," Linda Donahue, Doyle's director of couture, said.
Desses gowns are considered rare finds, and next Wednesday when four more go up for sale at Doyle's couture auction (three of the gowns come from the Denver Museum of Art) the prices are expected to be even higher, given all the attention Ms. Zellweger's dress garnered.
Still, for many, the question remains, Who is this Jean Desses? Born in Alexandria, Egypt, in 1904, Desses began working as a couturier in Paris in 1937 after abandoning the study of law and diplomacy, but it wasn't until the 50's and 60's that his work gained the greatest acclaim. 
His client list included the Duchesses of Kent and Windsor as well as Princess Margaret and Elsa Maxwell. When Queen Frederika of Greece visited the United States in October 1958, The New York Times ran a near-full-page story on the wardrobe Desses designed for her trip. 
Desses worked primarily in jersey and chiffon and drew his inspiration largely from Greek sculpture. Valentino worked for him for several years during the 1950's; Guy Laroche was employed by him as well. Desses closed his couture shop in 1960, his ready-to-wear business five years later and died in Greece in 1970.
"When you think of the great Parisian couturiers, most people don't know about them," Dr. Valerie Steele, the fashion historian, observed. "Few people really know much about Givenchy other than the Audrey Hepburn dresses. So it's not all that surprising that few people have heard of Desses."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Galliano with some designs from his Galliano's Girl collection for eLuxury.com, at the Dior offices in New York. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (88%); AUCTIONS (88%); BRANDING (88%); HAUTE COUTURE (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (75%); RETAILERS (74%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (72%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (63%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) APPAREL 

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (95%); CHRISTIAN DIOR SA (58%); WILLIAM DOYLE GALLERIES INC (51%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (95%); LVMH (BIT) (95%); CDI (PAR) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (95%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (95%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (58%); SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (58%); NAICS453998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS STORE RETAILERS (EXCEPT TOBACCO STORES) (51%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (51%)

PERSON: BERNARD ARNAULT (79%) GALLIANO, JOHN; BELLAFANTE, GINIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



693 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: In a Cost-Cutting Move, 3M Says It Will Eliminate 5,000 Jobs 

BYLINE:  By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
The Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, reacting to the slowing economy with a pre-emptive strike, said yesterday that it would cut 7 percent of its work force, or about 5,000 jobs. 
 "In this uncertain environment, we are focused on the things that we can control," W. James McNerney Jr., 3M's chief executive, told analysts yesterday. 
 The cuts are not desperation moves. Although 3M's United States sales have slowed, its international sales remain strong. And its first-quarter earnings, although below its target of double-digit earnings growth, were exactly what analysts had predicted. 
Many analysts say the job cuts are as much a reflection of Mr. McNerney's impatience with 3M's somewhat leisurely culture as it is a reaction to slowing sales. 
"In a word, McNerney is bringing speed," said Mark R. Gulley, an analyst with Banc of America Securities. 
The job cuts are just the most visible change that Mr. McNerney has made since he became the first outsider to run 3M in the company's 98 years.
Mr. McNerney, who spent most of his career at the General Electric Company, was one of the runners-up to succeed the G.E. chairman, John F. Welch Jr. When 3M, which is based in St. Paul, announced in December that it had hired Mr. McNerney, its shares shot up, as its investors bet that Mr. McNerney would apply G.E.'s much-vaunted productivity programs to the more leisurely paced 3M. He has not disappointed them. In February, about 100 of 3M's top executives were trained in Six Sigma, the highly complex statistical quality-control system that has saved G.E. billions of dollars. So far this year, 3M has embarked on 35 Six Sigma projects, and 100 more are already scheduled. 
Mr. McNerney has also promised investors that he will cut procurement costs by 2 percent this year, in good part by consolidating suppliers and moving more of 3M's procurement onto the Web. He has already saved $16 million a year by reducing the types of packages the businesses use. 
First-quarter results seemed to reflect some of the belt-tightening. Although high energy costs and the strong dollar took a toll of 11 cents a share on 3M's earnings last quarter, the company still earned $1.16 a share excluding extraordinary charges. That was up 3 cents a share from the first quarter of last year, which also had charges. Net income was $453 million, or $1.13 a share, compared with $487 million, or $1.21 a share, in the period of 2000. Sales were up 2.3 percent, to $4.17 billion.
Shares of 3M rose $3.80 yesterday, to $116.30.
"Investors remember how badly 3M got hit after the overseas economy turned down in late 1997, and they expect that 3M is reacting more quickly now," said Charles L. Hill, director of research at Thomson Financial/First Call. The job cuts, about half of which will take place in the United States, will be spread out over the next 12 months, and are expected to eventually save $300 million annually. The company will take a $600 million charge over the next few quarters, in large part to account for the job cuts. 
Although none of 3M's business units will remain unscathed, "headcount reductions will be more significant in those businesses and geographies that face the greatest long-term economic challenges," Mr. McNerney said. Many analysts interpreted that to mean that the cuts will be particularly deep in 3M's industrial and transportation businesses, which sell heavily to automotive and other industries that are hardest hit by the slowing United States economy.
Down the road, analysts expect sweeping job cuts in 3M's international management ranks. 3M is among a minority of manufacturers that still use a country management system; in addition to business unit chiefs in St. Paul, 3M also has regional executives responsible for product sales in specific countries. 
But Mr. Gulley of Banc of America said that was likely to change. "I expect they'll dismantle their whole structure of country managers, and really run all of their businesses globally," he said. 
Not all of 3M's businesses need immediate tinkering. Its health care businesses continue to grow. And, even though many telecommunications companies are suffering low sales and sharply reduced earnings, 3M is doing well in that industry as well, in good part because many of its products are essential for upgrading copper wire networks. 
Still, the company has been hard hit by rising energy costs, and price increases in many of its other raw materials. Most analysts assume it is a question of when, not if, 3M's international sales start to founder.
"Before, 3M never had the flexibility to deal with slowdowns," said Jonathan Rosenzweig, who follows 3M for Salomon Smith Barney. "Now McNerney is aligning the cost structure to a weaker economy, and that is going to position the company well when the recovery comes." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SIX SIGMA (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); QUALITY CONTROL (68%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (66%); US DOLLAR (63%) LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: 3M CO (96%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (68%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA MINING & MANUFACTURING CO 

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (96%); MMM (NYSE) (96%); MMM (FRA) (96%); GNE (PAR) (68%); GEC (LSE) (68%); GE (SWX) (68%); GE (NYSE) (68%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (96%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (96%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (96%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%) SIC2672 OTHER COATED & LAMINATED PAPER; 

PERSON: JAMES MCNERNEY (79%); JACK WELCH (56%) DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



694 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: A Leapfrog Pattern in Pay Pacts for Airline Pilots 

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
Last summer, United Airlines set a new standard for pilot pay when it agreed to raise wages 22.5 percent to 28 percent. The airline has since said it was forced to offer such generous increases after Delta Air Lines increased pay rates on the Boeing 777 the previous year 18 percent above the industry peak.
 A senior Delta executive justified the pay increase at the time by pointing out that Delta planned to include only 11 or 12 of the wide-body jets in its fleet while United would have to pay the higher rates on a fleet of nearly 50 777's. 
 That seemingly clever attempt to settle with its pilots at the expense of a competitor came back to haunt Delta this weekend, when it agreed to a tentative contract six days before a strike deadline that would leapfrog United, making its pilots the highest paid in the industry. 
The formula for the settlement, which is still subject to approval by the union leadership and Delta's nearly 10,000 pilots, was based on the industry-leading rates at United plus 1 percent. Delta said that the increases would add more than $2 billion to its current pilot costs over the life of the four-year contract. The average Delta pilot earned $188,038 in salary and benefits last year, according to the airline. 
Such pattern bargaining is expected to raise labor costs across the rest of the industry by equal measures in the coming years as pilots at American, Continental, and Northwest also demand raises above the current rates at United and Delta. 
Analysts said yesterday that airlines can do little to counter the increases other than raise business fares. "Over time, airlines will seek to recover the impact of sharply higher labor costs through sharply higher business fares," said Samuel Buttrick, an airline analyst at UBS Warburg in New York. "That is all they know how to do." 
But a steep decline in corporate travel in recent months because of the slowing economy has already forced many airlines to post losses. After six fare increases last year, the gap between discount leisure fares and high-priced last-minute business fares is already wide. Under these circumstances, it will be a year or two before industry fares can grow enough to offset the expected rise in labor costs, Mr. Buttrick said. 
Still, many analysts yesterday praised Delta's tentative agreement. Since United announced its agreement in August, all assumed that Delta would have to at least match the new rates. 
"The contract, cost-wise, appears to be very much in line with what we expected," James M. Higgins, airline analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston, said yesterday after raising his recommendation on Delta's stock to a buy from a hold. He added that the company had told him that it had already budgeted for the pay increase, which is retroactive to May 2, 2000, and would not have to take a charge against earnings to account for the increase. 
Mr. Higgins and others said that the agreement would ensure labor peace at Delta through 2005 while giving the company flexibility to deploy between 57 and 75 larger 70-seat regional jets, making Delta one of the few major airlines that has won permission to fly such aircraft. 
The agreement is still subject to approval by the 25-member governing body of the Delta chapter of the Air Line Pilots Association. The group is scheduled to meet on Saturday but will probably not announce its decision until Monday, a union spokeswoman said. 
If the union's leadership endorses the contract, it will be put before the membership for a vote. That process could take 30 to 90 days.
If the pilots reject the deal, Delta and the union have signed a side agreement that would restart the clock on the 30-day cooling-off period that was in effect when the two sides reached the tentative agreement on Sunday. That would give them seven days to try to reach a new deal before the pilots could walk out. 
But the White House could then appoint a presidential emergency board, which would delay a strike an additional 60 days. 
Neither the union nor the airline was eager to handicap the contract's chances of approval yesterday. But Leo F. Mullin, Delta's chief executive, expressed optimism. 
"It's a classic win-win situation," he said in a telephone interview yesterday. "They got a deal that pretty largely conforms with the portfolio of items that they wanted. And the deal helps the company." 
The pilots had hoped to eliminate a two-tier wage scale that pays pilots less at Delta Express, a low-fare subsidiary meant to compete with Southwest Airlines. Delta agreed to raise the pay of Express pilots by 63 percent and improve their work rules but they will still be paid about 10 percent less than main line pilots at the end of the contract. 
Some analysts suggested that the pay increase would limit growth at Delta Express, but Mr. Mullin disagreed. He said that the contract retained work rules that keep Delta Express competitive with low-fare rivals. "It gives us a lot more flexibility to run the operation," he said. 
Some pilots are also said to be wary of a new scheduling system for those with low seniority who do not fly a set schedule but must wait on reserve until contacted by the airline. The new system is intended to accommodate the many pilots who live far away from their bases and commute to work by flying. 
"The new system is very complex," said Karen Miller, the union spokeswoman. "It will take a little while for many pilots to understand what it means for them."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); AIRLINES (92%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (92%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STRIKES (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); APPROVALS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (71%); COMPANY LOSSES (63%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; PILOTS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); WAGES AND SALARIES 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (91%); BOEING CO (58%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (53%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (59%) DELTA AIR LINES INC; UNITED AIRLINES; AIR LINE PILOTS ASSN; AMERICAN AIRLINES; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES; NORTHWEST AIRLINES 

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (50%); CS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001 



695 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Look to the Sun 

BYLINE:  By Dale Maharidge; Dale Maharidge, visiting professor of communication at Stanford, won the Pulitzer Prize for nonfiction in 1990.

DATELINE: PETROLIA, Calif. 

 BODY:
As I write this, I can be assured of something most Californians could not: My computer won't flash off in a blackout. I'm at my home, using power from my own solar power system. I make all of my electricity and store it in batteries -- enough to run lights, a computer, fax, power tools, a water pump. 
 The latest estimate is that California's failed experiment with deregulation will cost consumers $5 billion annually in increased rates. Watching the sun glint off my solar panels, I was moved to find out how many of them could be purchased for $1 billion. The answer is about one million 110 watt, 110 volt, utility-ready panels, the easiest kind for consumers to use. (My system uses five panels). At peak power output on a California summer afternoon -- when blackouts are most likely to occur -- those one million panels would produce about 100 megawatts of electricity. 
 What if California issued bonds now to buy solar panels, saving consumers from some of the six years of steep price increases they are expected to have to absorb? Raising $30 billion would purchase 30 million 110-watt solar panels. If the state then simply gave these panels to schools, businesses and homeowners, they would produce 3,000 megawatts -- the output of three large coal-fired power plants.
It doesn't sound like much; California faces crisis when consumption goes over 40,000 megawatts. On 34 days last summer, usage exceeded that by several thousand. But with those extra 3,000 megawatts and reasonable conservation measures, like weatherizing and turning off lights after working hours, California would face no blackouts this summer. And the panels would produce power for 40 years with no coal or gas to purchase, little maintenance and no pollution.
Even if there were politicians willing to push for solar power, however, we couldn't put this plan into effect immediately. The total output of solar panels in the United States was only 77 megawatts in 1999, the latest year for which figures are available. And three-fourths of the panels we now make go overseas, mostly to Germany and Japan, which have aggressive solar power programs. 
This is a situation where so-called big government is needed. If California announced it wanted to spend $30 billion on solar power, you can be sure manufacturers would gear up. And over time, the price of the panels would fall as the makers competed.
Rather than support the development of solar power, President Bush has proposed cutting funds for research on alternative energy. He's pushing coal and nuclear power. Implied in this policy is the notion that solar power is something exotic that doesn't really work. But it does work. If we rely solely on the free market to bring it to fruition, it could take decades for solar power to reach a level where it produces significant power. We can't wait that long.
Utilities argue that panels don't work at night. But they produce power in precisely the hours when air conditioners are roaring and the most power is consumed.
Even if we set aside the environmental argument for solar power, the economic one should be enough. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (92%); POWER FAILURES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); ENERGY RESEARCH (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); POWER TOOLS (72%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SOLAR ENERGY; BLACKOUTS (ELECTRICAL); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SHORTAGES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) MAHARIDGE, DALE 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (52%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001 



696 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence in Economy Slips Again 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24 

 BODY:
Consumer confidence in the economy fell in April, reflecting reduced optimism about jobs, a private survey showed today.
 The Conference Board's consumer confidence index fell to 109.2, the sixth decline in seven months, from 116.9 in March. The April reading was the same as the one in February, which was the lowest since October 1996. 
 While interest rate cuts and rising stocks may underpin confidence in coming months, job cuts at companies like JDS Uniphase, Agere Systems and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter may keep consumer spending sluggish. Spending accounts for two-thirds of economic growth.
"Jobs determine spending, not confidence, so we shouldn't expect to see strong spending in coming months," said Richard Yamarone, senior economist at the Argus Research Corporation in New York.
Consumers may take comfort in the recent stock market gains and "barring another reversal, confidence will be higher in May," said Chris Low, chief economist at First Tennessee Capital Markets in New York.
The April decrease reflected reduced optimism about both current and future conditions. The component of the confidence index that tracks consumers' current sentiment fell to 155.6, the lowest since October 1997. The gauge of consumer expectations for the next six months fell to 78.2 from 83.1.
The percentage of Americans who saw jobs as plentiful fell in April to 40 percent -- the lowest since November 1997 -- from 43.8 percent a month earlier. The share seeing jobs as hard to get rose to 14.2 percent -- the highest since December 1998 -- from 12.6 percent in March.
JDS Uniphase, the maker of parts used in fiber optic equipment, said it would cut 5,000 jobs, or 20 percent of its work force, as the company reshuffles manufacturing to reduce costs. Agere, the semiconductor unit that is being spun off from Lucent Technologies, said it would cut 2,000 jobs, or 11 percent of its work force. And Morgan Stanley, the biggest securities firm by market value, is eliminating about 1,500 jobs to trim costs as revenue slumps.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (96%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (96%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (76%); ELECTRONICS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); INTEREST RATES (56%); SEMICONDUCTORS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) 

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (64%); JDS UNIPHASE CORP (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD 

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (64%); ALU (NYSE) (64%); ALU (BIT) (64%); JDU (TSX) (57%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (57%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (64%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (64%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001 



697 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Mixed School Record for Edison Foes 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
In the recent battle over plans to let a private company manage five low-performing schools, the loudest and most effective voice belonged to Acorn, the community group that led the opposition. But few people who followed that battle seemed aware that Acorn has itself been involved in the New York City school system for more than a decade, helping to found and advise several new public schools.
 Those efforts, however, have not been as clearly successful as the campaign to block Edison Schools Inc. from taking over five schools. Two elementary school programs that Acorn helped to found have cut their ties to the group. Acorn's first four-year high school has generally lower attendance and a higher number of suspensions than the citywide high school average. Last year, only one senior from that school graduated on time with the rigorous Regents diploma. 
 Yet that school, the only one of three Acorn-linked high schools with reported results on Regents exams, has so far produced better than average test scores and a higher than average percentage of students bound for college. Over all, the problems that trouble the Acorn schools, including some disgruntled teachers and a rigid focus on standardized tests, are little different than those encountered at many urban high schools. 
The promising signs are at Acorn Community High School in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. There, only 6 percent of the entering students were reading at grade level, according to recent statistics. Yet last year, 90 percent of the school's students who took the Regents English exam, required for graduation, passed, far higher than the 77 percent in similar schools and 82 percent citywide who scored similarly.
"It's very much the culture of the school to ensure that students here are informed decision makers who are also sensitive to the ideas of social justice," said Charles Amundsen, a deputy superintendent in the high school district that spans southern Brooklyn and Staten Island and that includes the Acorn Community High School. "The teachers and the students and their parents have to buy into the philosophy of the school and the theme of the school."
Acorn's aim has been to produce a curriculum that not only teaches the usual subjects but also encourages students to be active in seeking solutions to problems affecting them and the communities in which they live.
Acorn started in Arkansas in 1970 with a mission to encourage economic opportunity for minority residents. In New York City, the local organization grew rapidly after a series of housing protests in East New York, Brooklyn, in the early 1980's.
"Back in those days, I remember my mom saying she was going to Acorn meetings," said Fallon Neblett, a senior at Community High School who lives in Flatbush, Brooklyn. "I didn't know what the group was." Now, however, she said she appreciated the opportunity for smaller classes and more individual attention than at most city high schools.
Acorn recently helped start two other small high schools -- the Bread and Roses Integrated Arts High School in Harlem, and the High School for Social Justice in Bushwick, Brooklyn. Those schools will produce their first graduates in June 2001 and June 2003, respectively.
Acorn was instrumental in the establishment of Public School 245, an elementary school in Flatbush, in Brooklyn's District 22, in 1993. At the time, the neighborhood was known as a frozen zone, because children who lived there could not be placed at overcrowded neighborhood schools. Rather, they were bused miles away to schools in southern Brooklyn, in Sheepshead Bay and Bergen Beach.
But Acorn is no longer involved with the school, or with another program it helped set up in 1991, the Rockaway New School at Public School 183 in Queens, which operated as an academy within the larger P. S. 183.
Few people involved in the two elementary schools would speak openly about what happened. Board of Education officials referred questions about Acorn's involvement at the schools to the organization. People who spoke on the condition of anonymity, however, said that conflicts among Acorn officials, the district superintendent, the school principals, community and parent associations and the central board contributed to ending Acorn's involvement.
"If we're going to be fighting about our role in a school every day, we're going to step back," Ismene Speliotis, who heads Acorn's education efforts, said. "A school is a unique organism that every year is starting over. If the conflicts become too much, the one that probably ought to step back would be the one on the outside." 
As its involvement in the elementary schools waned, Acorn's effort in the high schools grew, through a grant program aimed at the design of small schools that would offer students specialized programs, particularly in the higher grades. There, Acorn's theme of social justice and community change is woven into regular courses, like a biology class that looks at how rodents and pollution in nearby communities contribute to disease, and electives, like the history of Crown Heights. Whether the students are learning enough biology is open to question, however. On Regents biology tests, Acorn Community students scored well below the citywide average in recent years.
Acorn does not run the schools, but it consults on teacher hirings and offers a curriculum guide and training sessions for teachers. It also participates in principal selection and has representatives on the School Leadership Team, which takes part in budget discussions with the school administration and teachers. "We're not educators, we're organizers," Ms. Speliotis said. "We look for resources."
The themes also are emphasized in student projects. Students at Community High School had a city bus stop moved next to the school from a decrepit industrial strip several blocks away. Currently, they are proposing the addition of a gymnasium and auditorium to the school to replace the "gymatorium," a wood-floored room whose chief architectural features are four massive support columns lining the center of the playing floor and a ceiling too low to allow for a game of badminton, much less basketball.
Teachers at the Acorn school say it is not easy, however, to incorporate discussions about racism and social justice into daily course work. "The students say, 'We don't want to talk about that every day,' " said Kim Kelly, who has taught at Community High School for three years. "They want to think about things that will make their day-to-day life better. There has to be a balance. You can't be thinking just about how screwed up everything is all the time."
Although some teachers complain that the Community High School imposes a rigid high school structure on what should be a flexible, experimental school, Acorn students appear to be learning. A study by the Institute for Education and Social Policy at New York University, which has worked with Acorn to refine its school model, found that 66 percent of the Community High School students who took the Regents English exam in 1999 passed, compared with 59 percent citywide and 30 to 39 percent in the high schools most often attended by students from similar neighborhoods.
Part of Community High School's success undoubtedly can be attributed to its small size and selectivity: half the school's students are chosen randomly and half are chosen by school officials from rosters of students who make the school a top choice.
But Eleanor D. Leonard, the principal of the Community High School, said the success also demonstrates that students who traditionally have been written off by the system can meet high standards given the proper resources.
"We aspire to excellence without exceptions," Ms. Leonard said. "It shows you can stay where you are and bring about change."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gordon Connell's 10th-grade math class at Acorn Community High School in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. Acorn helped found this and several other public schools, with a theme of social justice. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); CURRICULA (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (75%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); SCHOOL PRIVATIZATION (73%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (59%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; PRIVATIZATION; CHARTER SCHOOLS 

COMPANY: EDISONLEARNING INC (71%)

ORGANIZATION: EDISON SCHOOLS; ACORN (ORGN) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS611110 ELEMENTARY & SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); SIC8211 ELEMENTARY & SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%)

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001 



698 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: People in Streets of Taiwan Are Underwhelmed by It All 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, April 24 

 BODY:
Politicians here expressed satisfaction today at the menu of weapons being offered to Taiwan by the United States. But on the streets of the capital there was little response to a decision that had been anticipated with hope and worry.
 In part, that is because there were few surprises: people expected President Bush to defer the sale of the Aegis combat radar system, while offering Taiwan many other items on its shopping list. 
 But beyond that, the military hardware issue is less momentous today than it would have been a few years ago. With capital flowing from this island's sputtering economy to a booming China at an accelerating rate, Taiwan's giant neighbor suddenly seems more of a threat commercially than militarily. 
"Five years ago political tensions animated the relationship between Taiwan and China," said Yang Chao, editor of The Journalist, a magazine about politics. "But now Taiwanese people feel the existence of mainland China, almost physically, by the weight of the trade relationship."
This has left people feeling vulnerable, not to an assault by Chinese ships or troops, but to the pressure of doing business with an emerging economic powerhouse. American-made destroyers cannot prevent companies in Taiwan from building chip factories outside Shanghai.
"As long as China is not shooting missiles at us, there is a tendency to view it as an economic opportunity," said Wu Yu-shan, a political science professor at National Taiwan University. "The problem is that companies now believe that you have to invest outside Taiwan to survive."
The flow of investment to China coincides with a painful economic slowdown here. Exports are falling, output is slowing and the unemployment rate of nearly 4 percent is at its highest level since 1985. That has made Taiwan's many small-time stock traders extremely nervous. 
"We don't really care which weapons the U.S. sells Taiwan," said Wei Chi-jiang, who was trading shares at a retail brokerage here. "What we care about is China's reaction. Almost all of Taiwan's investment has shifted to the mainland, so we really care about how they react."
Mr. Wei's comments were echoed by his fellow stock traders. Noting that Taiwan's leading companies have huge investments in China, they said it was more important to preserve the status quo than beef up Taiwan's security. Several expressed relief that Mr. Bush had not offered to sell their military the Aegis system because it would have provoked China.
"The U.S. shouldn't sell overly advanced weapons to Taiwan," said Joe Chao, a theater owner. "That could be terribly dangerous."
Mr. Chao said the issue was especially sensitive because of the election last year of Chen Shui-bian as Taiwan's president. The Chinese government is deeply suspicious of Mr. Chen, a longtime opposition leader, because his party formally espouses independence for Taiwan, which Beijing views as rightfully a part of China.
"It might be O.K. to sell weapons to a K.M.T. government," Mr. Chao said, using the initials for the Kuomintang, the Chinese name of the Nationalist Party, which ruled Taiwan before Mr. Chen took office. "But China doesn't think this government is stable."
Such views are common among business people. But the ties between Taiwan and the mainland extend beyond commerce. Tourists from Taiwan are streaming into the mainland, as are graduate students eager to study literature, economics and Chinese medicine at universities there.
"Many of my former students are now at Beida," said Professor Wu, using the nickname for Beijing University. "These are the kinds of societal links that are being forged, even as the political tension remains."
Professor Wu noted, though, that the muted reaction to the American decision was somewhat misleading. If the White House had suspended or radically scaled back the weapons program, he said, it would have been a rude shock to an island that depends on Washington to protect it.
Indeed, several people said they believed that Mr. Bush was likely to be more supportive of Taiwan than the Clinton administration simply because he had offered a more formidable array of weapons.
"It's good news," said Ling Shiang-shing, 36, an insurance saleswoman. "I'm glad that someone is willing to sell weapons to us."
President Chen has so far declined to comment on the decision. But members of his Democratic Progressive Party said it would raise the sagging confidence of investors -- perhaps even persuading them keep their money here.
"The local business community can feel that the U.S. stands behind us," said Parris Chang, a former adviser to Mr. Chen on security issues. "That kind of confidence may stem the flow of capital to China."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Taiwan army recruits during roll call at the Chiang Kai-shek Memorial square in Taipei on Monday, before the weapons sale was announced. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (78%); ARMS TRADE (78%); RADAR SYSTEMS (76%); MILITARY VESSELS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (74%); WRITERS (73%); JOURNALISM (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMS SALES ABROAD; TAIWAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-TAIWAN; FOREIGN AID 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%) LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (76%) EAST CHINA (79%) TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%) TAIWAN

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001 



699 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: In Radio Ad, DiFrancesco Attacks Rivals On Tax Rates 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

DATELINE: TRENTON, April 24 

 BODY:
In his first broadcast advertisement of the gubernatorial primary campaign, Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco is attacking his Republican and Democratic rivals on a subject unhappily familiar to New Jersey homeowners: the state's property tax rates.
 In a 60-second radio ad scheduled to make its statewide debut on Wednesday, Mr. DiFrancesco, a Republican, boasts of having voted 52 times to cut various state taxes and promises to increase property tax rebates and to freeze property tax rates for elderly homeowners. 
 But the ad's tone, judging from a script released today by Mr. DiFrancesco's campaign, is primarily negative. "Jim McGreevey and Bret Schundler have foolish ideas that are bad for taxpayers," it begins, referring to the Democratic mayor of Woodbridge and the Republican mayor of Jersey City, respectively.
The ad, calling the mayors "two irresponsible politicians who raised property taxes too high," claims that Mr. McGreevey raised property taxes "a staggering 72 percent" in Woodbridge, and that Mr. Schundler raised property taxes in Jersey City by 75 percent in the last four years alone.
Mr. DiFrancesco's rivals accused him of cynically distorting their records. Mr. Schundler's campaign manager, Bill Pascoe, said Mr. DiFrancesco had deliberately compared Jersey City's current tax rates with those in 1994, two years after Mr. Schundler was elected, and a year in which residents were given a tax holiday for several months.
A fairer comparison would be with the year before Mr. Schundler was elected, Mr. Pascoe said. By that measure, the total city tax levy went from $103 million to $102 million today.
"Donnie DiFrancesco's campaign is cratering, and his response is to go negative," Mr. Pascoe said in a statement. "Donnie uses the term 'irresponsible' in his ad. What is irresponsible is deliberately presenting voters with false information in an attempt to win their support."
In a stretch at least as long, if not as relevant, as the DiFrancesco campaign's, Mr. Pascoe also observed that since 1976, when Mr. DiFrancesco took office as a legislator, the state budget "has increased 867 percent."
A spokesman for Mr. McGreevey, the Democratic candidate, who is unopposed in the June 26 primary, responded to the new ad with arguments strikingly similar to Mr. Pascoe's.
"The acting governor's political anxiety is causing him to start the campaign with negative attacks on both opponents and to use tax calculations that even he knows are untrue," said the spokesman, Richard McGrath. "The truth is, Mayor McGreevey held property tax increases below the rate of inflation at the same time Mr. DiFrancesco shared responsibility for increases in taxes statewide by $4 billion, accompanied with a ballooning debt of $16 billion."
Charlie Smith, Mr. DiFrancesco's campaign manager, called the ad's assertions accurate and fair.
"Our intention since the announcement is to focus the race on issues that matter to voters," he said. "Everyone will agree property taxes are a top issue amongst the concerns of voters. This ad speaks directly to Don DiFrancesco's record of accomplishment in cutting taxes and his plan to provide significant property tax relief, and to the tax-hiking records of Mayors McGreevey and Schundler." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAX (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); RADIO ADVERTISING (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MAYORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); INFLATION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) ELECTIONS; PRIMARIES; TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PROPERTY TAXES; GOVERNORS (US) 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M; DIFRANCESCO, DONALD T (ACTING GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001 



700 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1562 words

HEADLINE: Closing an Artery in Chinatown; 
Some Say Station Shutdown Threatens Brooklyn Ties

BYLINE:  By SHAILA K. DEWAN 

 BODY:
It is not easy to explain why the partial shutdown of the Grand Street subway station has caused such outrage.
 After all, this is a city in which detours are a daily affair. Subway stations close for repairs all the time, and the Canal Street and Broadway station, the designated alternative to Grand Street, is not far. 
 Grand Street will still be accessible from uptown, via a shuttle train that will run from the Broadway-Lafayette Street station, after the partial shutdown this summer. And New York City Transit has agreed to run a shuttle bus from Canal Street to Grand Street, although it says that the neighborhood's heavy traffic makes walking faster. 
Furthermore, the transit agency says, service from Brooklyn to Grand Street is to stop for only two and a half years while work is done on the Manhattan Bridge; not, as politicians and protesters have asserted, for four years.
So why has the shutdown prompted rallies and cries of racism, the unfurling of "Hands Off Chinatown" banners and grandstanding by political hopefuls?
The answer has to do with the ways immigrant communities stay connected even as economics and growth force them farther apart. The Grand Street station anchors an underground umbilical cord, a thrumming network of community ties that to a large degree has been shaped by the city's subway lines. 
From the station, perpetually steeped in the salty perfume of the bustling fish markets above, the B, D and Q lines barrel to Brooklyn. There they fork into long, graceful arteries, from Sunset Park to Sheepshead Bay to Avenue U, along which enclaves of Chinese-Americans cling, the way early Midwestern towns did to railroad tracks. 
At rush hours, it is a straight 24-minute shot from Sunset Park, Brooklyn's Chinatown, to Grand Street, where virtually everyone who files off the train is Chinese-American. They are going to work and shop, visit relatives or doctors, make the 8 a.m. bell at Seward Park High School. Diverting those riders to Canal is like performing bypass surgery on a body that has already been weakened by serious diseases, given the garment industry's decline and the city government's neglect, community leaders say.
"Subways are the lifeline of the immigrant," said Louis Winnick, a board member of the Institute of Public Administration and the author of a book about Sunset Park. "Closing Grand Street, which would not have been a great tragedy 30 years ago, would now be a big loss to the immigrant community," he said, because of Chinese-Americans' increasing migration to Brooklyn.
Chinatown's leaders predict that the service reduction will cripple small businesses around Grand Street. But Peter Derrick, a former planner for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and the author of "Tunneling to the Future: The Story of the Great Subway Expansion That Saved New York" (New York University Press, 2001) said the M.T.A. had never been able to isolate the economic effect of transit changes. 
"It's very hard to quantify long-term economics when you're talking about 5- and 10-minute differences in each direction," Mr. Derrick said.
But Chinese-Americans say those extra blocks are harder for the elderly, young schoolchildren and mothers with small children who go to one of several day care centers near the Grand Street station. Many garment and restaurant workers return to Brooklyn after stores there are closed, so they carry home armloads of groceries. 
In addition to the longer walk, there will be less service. Tempers flared again earlier this month when it was reported that the W train, which will replace the B train starting this summer, will not run into Manhattan on weekends, as the B does now. 
"People are really angry, because their daily lives are being cut off," said Christopher Kui, the executive director of Asian Americans for Equality, who helped form the Grand Coalition to protest the changes.
Newer immigrant communities, like the Chinese-American areas in Brooklyn, are more dependent on the subway and on Chinatown than are older communities, like the one in Flushing, Queens, said Joyce Moy, the director of the Center for Workforce Strategy at La Guardia Community College.
"Many of the people who live in Queens are fourth generation, like myself," Ms. Moy said. Newer immigrants are less likely to speak English. And nowadays, the highest number of legal immigrants from mainland China live in Sunset Park and Chinatown, not Flushing, according to the Department of City Planning.
Eva Mei's mother travels from the Grand Street station to 25th Avenue in Brooklyn, where she works as a home care provider. But Eva, 17, is worried about any change in routine for her mother, who does not speak English. "On the N line," the daughter said, "I don't know how to tell her to go."
Even those Chinese-Americans who have never lived in Chinatown think of it as home. Zhao En Tan, 76, lives in Sunset Park but works part time as an aide at the Project Open Door Senior Center, a few steps from the Grand Street station. On sunny days, Columbus Park between Baxter and Mulberry Streets is his preferred spot to read the newspaper and meet friends.
Fifteen years ago, the N and R trains' Canal Street station marked the center of Chinatown. New immigrants looking for housing spread into Brooklyn along the N, which goes through Sunset Park, and the R, which goes to Bay Ridge. Sunset Park was the closest neighborhood that was both inexpensive and relatively safe, and it had the added benefit of numbered streets. Those who did not know English were told to get off at "blue sky" (the N emerges from its tunnel just before the Eighth Avenue stop). 
But in Manhattan, Chinatown's borders were changing. A fast-growing population, the expansion beyond Mott Street of tourist destinations like restaurants and the rising cost of real estate pushed the boundaries a little to the north and a lot to the east, where retail space is relatively cheap. Streets that had been part of Little Italy were taken over by Chinese-American businesses, and East Broadway under the Manhattan Bridge, once a Jewish neighborhood, is now home to one Chinese-American mall, with a second under construction.
Betty Lee, who has lived in Sunset Park for 20 years and works for the Brooklyn Chinese-American Association, said that more people in her neighborhood now preferred to take the B train to Chinatown, since it is faster and takes them to Grand Street, farther east than the Canal Street station on the N line.
In 1980, 2.5 million people used the Grand Street station. In 2000, 8.6 million used it. By contrast, ridership at the Canal Street station used by the N, R, J, M, Z, and 6 trains went from 8.2 million to 10.3 million in the same period. 
Al O'Leary, the chief spokesman for the transit agency, says that the outcry over the service shutdown at Grand Street is one-sided. Based on an agency study conducted earlier this year, he said, 47 percent of the 27,000 riders who use Grand Street each day are expected to find Canal Street more convenient, and 39 percent will be only slightly inconvenienced by the change. 
"The store owners and retailers on Grand Street, they're going to feel the pain, there's no question about it," Mr. O'Leary said. "The store owners on Canal Street are rubbing their hands together, because their till is going to get filled."
But Don Lee, a member of Community Board 2 and the Grand Coalition, said that the businesses around Canal Street no longer served the basic needs of Chinese-Americans. 
"During the last 10 or 15 years," Mr. Lee said, "it has become a tourist area where buses will drop off and people will buy T-shirts, and that's a thriving business in itself." He added that grocers and seafood merchants moved east to find lower rents. "The M.T.A.'s argument is just to go back to Canal Street, and there's no place to go back to."
Mr. Lee said that the transit agency had refused to do things that could reduce the impact of the changes. The coalition asked for express buses from Brooklyn to Grand Street. But the agency said that thousands of buses, carrying 70 people each, would be needed to replace the trains, which carry 2,000 each. 
The coalition asked for increased service on the M train, which runs along the B line in Brooklyn during rush hour, and stops at the Bowery station, the closest to Grand Street. The agency agreed to consider that proposal if ridership on the M increased.
Although Brooklyn's Chinese-American neighborhoods have developed businesses of their own, they do not console themselves with the thought that the problems in Manhattan may stimulate their own growth. 
Paul Mak, the head of the Brooklyn Chinese-American Association, said his organization's two centers for the elderly and three day care centers already had a waiting list. Sunny Mui, the owner of the Fung Wong Supermarket on Eighth Avenue in Sunset Park, said he would not stay open past 9 to sell to people returning from work. 
A few businessmen acknowledged, almost reluctantly, that they might get a few more customers. "Maybe a little, not much," said Danny Tsoi, an owner of the Ocean Palace restaurant on Eighth Avenue. 
But his thoughts quickly turned to the place where he goes to see his accountant, his doctor, his lawyer and his mother. "But I think if they close it," Mr. Tsoi said of the Grand Street station, "they really hurt Manhattan Chinatown."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Grand Street station anchors a network of connections that has been shaped by the city's subway lines. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B6); Some have complained that the Grand Street station shutdown strikes at the heart of the immigrant Chinese community. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B1) Map of New York City highlights the route of the Grand Street Station.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); IMMIGRATION (87%); WRITERS (84%); TRAINS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); RACE & RACISM (67%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (64%); SMALL BUSINESS (62%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; STATIONS AND TERMINALS (PASSENGER); SUBWAYS; BUSES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

PERSON: DEWAN, SHAILA K 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; CHINATOWN (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001 



701 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 411 words

PERSON: James Parton 

HEADLINE: James Parton, 88, a Founder Of American Heritage, Dies 

BYLINE:  By ERIC PACE 

 BODY:
James Parton, who was instrumental in the founding of American Heritage magazine and was its president and publisher for many years, died Friday in Hanover, N.H., where he lived. He was 88.
 Mr. Parton and some associates created the American Heritage Publishing Company in 1954 with what he later recalled as "puny capital of $60,000 and star editorship vested in the writer Bruce Catton." Mr. Catton said at the time, "Our beat is anything that ever happened in America." 
 For a decade and a half, beginning in 1954, Mr. Parton was the company's president. The magazine, appearing every other month in hard cover with lavish color illustrations and no advertising, quickly became a success.
The company also produced books on American history that were marketed mainly by mail. They included the "American Heritage Picture History of the Civil War," which won a Pulitzer Prize
But as the years passed, as Mr. Parton put it later: "Inflation of costs for paper and binding made continued use of the hard covers for the magazine dubious. More critical was the fact that the company had created annual books on every major period in American history."
So, he said, he decided to sell the company to the publishing house McGraw-Hill. Since the sale, in 1969, the magazine, which is owned by Forbes, has undergone several changes. It switched to soft covers in 1978 and began selling ads for products other than its own publications in 1982.
After the sale, Mr. Parton was the president of the Encyclopaedia Britannica Educational Corporation. He was also assistant librarian of Congress for public education.
Born Dec. 10, 1912, in Newburyport, Mass., Mr. Parton graduated from what is now the Loomis Chaffee School in Windsor, Conn., and in 1934 from Harvard.
Over the next three decades, he worked for Time magazine and The New York Herald Tribune. During World War II, he rose to the rank of lieutenant colonel in the Army Air Forces.
His daughter, Sara Parton Pelgrift, of Rye, N.Y., said that Mr. Parton had acquired his interest in history partly from his grandfather and namesake, another James Parton, who was a 19th-century biographer of Aaron Burr, Andrew Jackson, John Jacob Astor, Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson.
In 1950, he married Jane Bourne, who died in 1962.
In addition to his daughter, Mr. Parton is survived by his second wife, Ruth Parton; a son, James III, of Mill Valley, Calif.; a sister, Nike Parton, of Sarasota, Fla.; and five grandchildren.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 16, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on April 25 about James Parton, a founder of American Heritage magazine, misstated the number of times he was married, and omitted some survivors. Mr. Parton was married five times, not two. Besides his widow, Ruth, and his first wife, Jane Bourne, who died in 1962, he was married to Caroline M. Houser, Jane T. Carlson and Mar Jennings. Those marriages ended in divorce. He was survived by seven grandchildren, not five. His son Dana died in 1991.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Parton (Hans Namuth, 1969) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); PUBLISHING (91%); HISTORY (90%); WRITERS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); LIBRARIANS (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); CIVIL WAR (74%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (69%); WORLD WAR II (68%); AIR FORCES (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%); ARMED FORCES (61%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (53%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA EDUCATIONAL CORP (66%)

PARTON, JAMES; PACE, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (50%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (95%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001 



702 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: LESSONS; 
How Tax Code Worsens Education Gap

BYLINE:  By Richard Rothstein; E-mail: rrothstein@nytimes.com

 BODY:
CONGRESS will soon debate the government's biggest education program, Title I, which has origins in President Lyndon B. Johnson's war on poverty and sends nearly $9 billion a year to schools with low-income children.
 While some dismiss Title I as a failure, no one disputes its intent to aid needy children. Yet few recognize that over all, the federal government exacerbates inequality in education, giving more money to districts with affluent children than to those with poor ones. 
 It does so with a tax system that subsidizes school spending in home-owning communities, many of them upper middle class or even wealthy. Homeowners who itemize deductions reduce their federal income taxes by a portion of their property tax payments. A family in the 28 percent bracket that pays $1,000 in local property taxes for public schools can deduct that payment on its income tax returns, reducing its income tax bill by $280. Of the $1,000 going to schools, the family pays only $720 out of its earnings. The federal government contributes the $280 balance. 
Economists term these subsidies "tax expenditures," because they have the same effect as direct government spending. Yet the federal education budget highlights only direct outlays, perhaps because tax expenditures would be politically indefensible if widely publicized.
The property tax subsidy aids affluent families more than lower-income ones. It helps only those who itemize deductions, and itemizers have higher incomes on average than taxpayers who take the standard deduction. Nearly all families with annual incomes of $100,000 itemize, as against fewer than a third of families with incomes of $35,000. 
And because the subsidy is tied to a family's tax bracket, even among itemizers the subsidy grows as income rises. Families in the 28 percent bracket get a $280 subsidy for each $1,000 in property taxes, but those in the 15 percent bracket get only $150.
Dr. Susanna Loeb, a Stanford University economist, notes that this system spurs school spending in wealthy communities, both in total dollars and relative to spending in less wealthy districts. When larger shares of property taxes are underwritten by the federal government, families become more willing to raise levies for better schools. Districts in wealthier communities can raise property taxes more easily, knowing that Washington picks up more of the tab.
There are some offsetting factors. One is the alternative minimum tax, paid by those who claim so many tax breaks that they would otherwise pay little or nothing in income taxes; this effectively reduces the property tax subsidy. On the other hand, many other, less affluent taxpayers do not itemize deductions at all, mostly out of ignorance. A community's schools get no benefit if its residents are lower-middle-income homeowners who take the standard deduction instead of itemizing.
Another countervailing factor is state income taxes, also deductible on federal forms. If a state uses its income tax revenue to equalize school spending, the federal system helps it do so. But this effect is limited. A homogeneous affluent community can more easily respond to federal tax incentives by voting to increase its property levy than a state as a whole can respond by increasing its income tax rates.
On balance, direct federal education outlays are mostly for poor children, while indirect spending mostly benefits the affluent. And federal tax expenditures for schools exceed direct spending.
Dr. Loeb has calculated federal per-student education spending for 1989. (Calculations for recent years must await data from the 2000 census.) She found that federally stimulated inequality occurs both among and within states.
In New Jersey, federal tax expenditures were $1,257 per student, but direct spending was only $237. In Alabama, tax expenditures were $165, while direct spending was $371.
Among districts within states, the differences were just as stark. Because tax expenditures are so high in wealthier districts, Princeton, N.J., got $2,399 in total per-student federal aid. But Camden, despite high Title I grants, got only $1,140.
Other tax expenditures increase inequality further. For example, the mortgage interest deduction also subsidizes homeowners' costs, lifting property values. This, in turn, disproportionately adds to the income of wealthy school districts, because tax rates are a percentage of assessments.
Politically, it is hard to imagine that either Democrats or Republicans will meddle with these upper-middle-class tax benefits, or appropriate enough Title I aid to outweigh them. But there is something perverse about both parties' proclaiming that they wish to leave no child behind, when the federal government plays so big a role in pushing affluent children farther ahead.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); TAX RELIEF (75%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, RICHARD; JOHNSON, LYNDON BAINES (1908-73) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001 



703 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

China Expresses Concern Over Arms Sale to Taiwan
Beijing expressed serious concern over reports that the United States would permit the sale of advanced weapons to Taiwan, but made no specific threats of retaliation. The Foreign Ministry said China "reserves the complete right to take further actions," and in Washington, China's ambassador delivered a formal protest to the State Department. A8

Taiwanese politicians expressed satisfaction at the menu of weapons offered, but on the streets of Taiwan's capital, Taipei, there was little response to the decision. A8

A Shift in Tone in the Mideast
There are subtle signs of a change in tone and a renewed effort at discussion as both Israelis and Palestinians appear to be responding to intensified international mediation efforts, especially by the Americans. Foreign Minister Shimon Peres is regularly talking with Palestinian officials, and Yasir Arafat effectively denounced terrorism on Monday. A6

Failed Procedures Cited in Peru
A Peruvian Air Force plane flew close enough to a small plane carrying a missionary family last week to read the aircraft's tail number, but American officials believe that it failed to check records of the number with Peruvian officials on the ground. Officials say tapes show that C.I.A. contract personnel raised questions with the Peruvians about their procedures before the plane was shot down, killing two people. A7

Assessing Afghan Drug Effort
United Nations officials said the Bush administration had sent two American narcotics experts to Afghanistan as part of an international team assessing how to help farmers who end opium poppy cultivation. A5

Yugoslavia Charges Soldiers
The Yugoslav Army has charged 183 soldiers with crimes it said were committed during the Kosovo war and more are under investigation, army headquarters said in a statement. The investigations are part of a process, the statement said, without saying what that process was. A4

World Briefing A10

NATIONAL A12-17

Divided Justices Back Arrests on Minor Charges
The Supreme Court ruled, 5 to 4, that a police officer who observes someone breaking a law, even a minor infraction for which the maximum penalty is a small fine, can make a full custodial arrest without violating the Fourth Amendment's prohibition against unreasonable seizure. A1

The justices, 5 to 4, limited the ability to file some civil rights suits. A14

'63 Church Bombing Trial
Prosecutors in Birmingham, Ala., portrayed Thomas E. Blanton Jr., 62, as a rabid segregationist who helped dynamite the 16th Street Baptist Church in 1963, killing four girls, and then insisted for years on driving past the scene of the crime. A12

Bush Budget May End Lawsuit
Justice Department lawyers warned that a shortfall in the Bush administration's budget may force them to abandon the litigation against some of the nation's largest tobacco companies, officials said. A16

Marine Sex Misconduct Inquiry
Military investigators are looking into accusations that at least 19 NCO's were involved in misconduct that included assaulting and sexually harassing young Marine trainees at Fort Leonard Wood, Mo. A15

Battling the River, and Critics
Municipal officials in Davenport, Iowa, battled the rising Mississippi, which approached record levels, even as they defended their decision not to build a permanent flood wall, a decision criticized the day before by the top federal disaster official. A1

OBITUARIES C17

DINING F1-12

ARTS E1-10

U.S. Faults Music Industry Ads
The F.T.C. said the music recording industry was still marketing violent and sexually explicit material to young people. A15

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Fiery Torricelli Tells Colleagues He Is Innocent
Senator Robert G. Torricelli of New Jersey defended himself before a closed-door session with Democratic senators, asserting that he had not accepted "illegal gifts." A1

Green Announces Candidacy
Mark Green officially entered the mayoral race, pledging to cut class size to 20 in early grades, create 400,000 new jobs, push for a Second Avenue subway and cut both crime and police abuses. He is the second major Democrat in the race, with Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi. B1

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Space Junket Approved
The United States and other partners building the International Space Station agreed to let Russia send a paying passenger, Dennis Tito, an American, to the station, provided certain restrictions are observed. Mr. Tito, 60, will pay up to $20 million for the ride, which is to begin on Saturday. A1

Sex Differences in Research
The National Academy of Sciences said biomedical researchers should pay much more attention to the different ways in which women and men are affected by diseases and various treatments for disease. A14

SPORTS D1-8

EDUCATION B8

Life in the Schoolyard
A national study on bullying found that threats, ridicule, slapping and other forms of intimidation and harassment are a common feature of life in America's schools. A17

Bush Plan in Senate Dispute
President Bush's signature campaign issue -- improving schools -- foundered in the Senate over deep partisan differences about money: Democrats believe schools need more money, Republicans believe schools need to be shaken up. A17

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Higher Fuel Prices Foreseen
The price of gasoline has soared 15 percent in the last month, and in a seeming replay of last year's run-up, many economists and industry analysts say the price is likely to remain high through much of the summer. A1

Huge Losses for Lucent
Lucent Technologies reported a quarterly loss of $3.7 billion, illustrating its struggle to raise enough cash to finance its operations. C1

Change in Utility Law Advances
With the energy market in tumult, a Senate committee voted to repeal a Depression-era law limiting the ownership and operations of utilities. C1

'Integrity Concerns'
Citigroup has stopped doing business with about 20 percent of the loan brokers at its Associates Home Equity Services unit, or about 1,000, saying they were not properly licensed or otherwise did not meet standards. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Getting it right on Taiwan; unsatisfactory naval verdict; reproductive rights under attack; a season of high water.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E4
TV Listings E10
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (86%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); AIR FORCES (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); MISCONDUCT (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); DRUG POLICY (69%); TERRORISM (68%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (68%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); BOMBINGS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); OPIUM (64%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: SHIMON PERES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (79%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%) ALABAMA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) UNITED STATES (98%); TAIWAN (96%); PERU (94%); CHINA (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); KOSOVO (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SERBIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001 



704 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Gas Prices Soar Again, And Refineries Have No Cure 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
The price of gasoline has soared 15 percent in the last month, and in a seeming replay of last year's run-up many economists and industry analysts say the price is likely to remain high through much of the summer. 
 But this year the causes are different and the economic impact could be more severe. In the past, gasoline prices tended to rise and fall in the United States based largely on production decisions in oil-exporting countries. This year, experts say, the blame lies closer to home. Refineries are already operating at or near capacity, so increasing the supply of gasoline will be difficult. 
 Also, the nation's patchwork of clean air rules, which limit the types of gasoline that can be sold in some parts of the country, could make some regions vulnerable to shortfalls and price spikes.
And while prices last year rose against the backdrop of broad prosperity, economists note, today they threaten to become one more drag on an already slowing, fragile economy. Consumers now spend about $125 billion a year on fuel, said Mark M. Zandi, chief economist for the research firm economy.com, and a 25- cent increase in the price of gasoline would take another $20 billion out of people's pockets. 
"It works like a tax, draining discretionary income," Mr. Zandi said. "It's coming at just the worst time for the economy."
Barring an outright recession, demand for gasoline this summer is expected to be slightly higher than last year, according to the Energy Information Administration, the analytical unit of the Energy Department. 
But fuel inventories are currently lagging even last year's levels, which were historically low. 
Weekly data released yesterday by the American Petroleum Institute, a trade group, showing that gasoline stocks increased 1.3 percent last week, to 195.7 million barrels, compared with the previous week. But that is still 2.4 percent below last year's levels for the comparable week. 
As a result, the average retail gasoline price has climbed 24 cents in the last four weeks, to $1.66 a gallon as of Monday, according to the Energy Information Administration. Last year at this time, the average retail price was $1.48 a gallon, and by mid-June had reached an average of $1.71 and exceeded $2 in some cities. 
For this summer's vacation driving season, AAA, the automobile association, is predicting that in many areas consumers will have to pay more than $2 a gallon. 
Market jitters mean that any disruption in refining can set off a sudden price jump. After a fire Monday at the Los Angeles-area refinery of the Tosco Corporation, the national wholesale price for gasoline hit a high of $1.091 a gallon yesterday, just short of the highest price in a decade, despite Tosco's assurances that the fire would not affect its gasoline output.
Although crude oil production cuts by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries have played a limited role in the nation's higher gasoline prices, the bigger problem is a shortage of refineries in this country.
Because of opposition from environmentalists and local groups, no new refineries have been built in the United States since the mid-1970's. And as aging plants have been closed, the nation has fewer refineries than 10 years ago, even though demand for all sorts of fuel has grown. As a result, refineries have been running at near capacity for much of the last four years, said Ron Planting, manager of information and analysis at the petroleum institute. Last year, flat-out production enabled refiners to keep up with seasonal demand but frustrated efforts to build inventories.
Refiners usually reconfigure their plants to maximize either heating oil production or gasoline, depending on the season. Because of tight supplies of both in recent years, the profit margins of refiners have fattened. And at each seasonal turn, they have been slow to reconfigure so that they could keep cashing in on a lucrative product, industry experts said. That means the refiners have been playing catch-up over the last year during periods when they might otherwise be building stocks.
"We're supposed to build supply in late winter or the spring, but we delayed turnarounds because margins were so good," said Christopher G. Stavros, an oil analyst with the investment bank UBS Warburg. "Now we find ourselves smack in the middle of spring thinking that these inventories are a concern, and it's not even summer yet."
Even when refiners reconfigure to make more gasoline, the increase will be incremental but with time should replenish inventories.
Refining is also complicated by the fact that different regions of the country now consume different types of fuel, called reformulated gasoline, based on the clean air standards in the area. "Every time you add a constraint to the refining process," Mr. Planting said, "it tends to take a bit more time and tends to cost a little more."
Because the additives mixed with the fuel vary from region to region, the days are gone when gasoline could be easily shipped from one part of the country to another -- or imported from overseas -- to meet high demand. And prices vary widely from state to state, depending on the kind of gasoline sold. Areas with reformulated gasoline run the risk of serious price jumps or shortfalls if anything goes wrong with the refineries or pipelines that serve them. 
"Wherever you have a boutique gasoline, you run the risk of greater volatility," said Lee Raymond, chairman of Exxon Mobil. "When you disconnect yourself from the system, you can't turn to some other place for help."
Organizations like AAA would like to see one type of gasoline used nationwide, without repealing clean air standards. But most analysts say that such shifts will take time.
As more refiners shift from heating oil, increased gasoline production will gradually bring prices down, industry experts said.
The question is how the higher prices in the meantime will affect consumers and the economy. Chris Varvares, president of Macroeconomic Advisers, a St. Louis economic forecasting firm, calculated that if average gasoline prices nationwide rose 50 cents, to $2.16, economic growth would slow by 0.5 percent, a substantial dip when an economy is expanding only marginally. 
Mr. Varvares does not expect a 50-cent jump in retail prices. But he does not discount the impact of a long period of high prices on an economy already beleaguered by layoffs and a tightening economy.
"People will bear expenditures on gasoline, but they will reduce expenses on something else," he said. "There's only so much disposable income to go around."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cars streamed along the Long Beach freeway in California on Monday as smoke rose from a fire at a Tosco oil refinery in Carson. (Associated Press)(pg. C2) Graph: "Energy Squeeze"Heading into summer, the height of the driving season, United States stocks of gasoline are lower than they have been in the previous two years. That relative scarcity is causing gasoline prices to rise. Graphs track gasoline inventories and average retail price of regular gasoline since 1999.(Source: American Petroleum Institute)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); GASOLINE PRICES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (92%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); DEREGULATION (77%); WHOLESALERS (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); AIR QUALITY (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (71%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); DISCRETIONARY INCOME (67%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); AIR POLLUTION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SHORTAGES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: TOSCO CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%) ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (60%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (60%)

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001 



705 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: HOCKEY; 
Urban Renewal Project

BYLINE:  By JASON DIAMOS 

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J., April 24 

 BODY:
The nickname Mad Dog was hung on John Madden while he was growing up in government-funded housing projects in suburban Toronto. Like most children in his North York neighborhood, Madden dreamed of playing for the Maple Leafs.
 What Madden, the Devils' second-year forward, and his friends lacked in new equipment, they made do with imagination. 
 On Friday afternoons after school, they would go scavenging in an adjoining neighborhood in search of abandoned furniture, picking and refashioning cushions into goalie pads for pickup hockey games. 
"None of us could afford to play net," said Madden, whose father, John, was a truck driver and whose mother, Lily, held two jobs, driving a school bus and working in a convenience store. "Our parents had enough trouble getting us a pair of skates."
It was in ball hockey games that Madden, who turns 27 on May 4, earned the moniker to reflect his intense desire to succeed.
"My buddies began to call me that when I was a kid because I worked so hard," Madden said recently. "I wasn't the most talented guy or the biggest guy. But rather than be bothered by me the entire game, they chose me first. It just kind of stuck with me."
Madden, whose parents are divorced, bounced through five high schools before graduating. "I ran with the wrong crowd at times," he said. "My mom was worried. She thought that maybe living in the country with my father, I couldn't get in trouble."
On Thursday, Mad Dog Madden will try to cause problems for the Maple Leafs in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference semifinal series at Continental Arena. He compares his style of play to guerrilla warfare. "I just think it goes hand in hand," Madden said with a shrug referring to his nickname.
Devils Coach Larry Robinson has no problems with Madden's self-image. "He is a little like a bull terrier in there," he said.
Madden attended the University of Michigan and played for Red Berenson, a hockey Hall of Famer. Madden cared more about playing hockey than studying, which concerned Berenson, who had a lengthy N.H.L. career.
Madden left Ann Arbor one semester short of earning his degree in sports management. Madden, however, said he wanted to become a college coach after he retired.
Madden, who was surprised when he was not drafted as an 18-year-old, went on to have an outstanding college career, setting an N.C.A.A. record for short-handed goals (23). As a junior, the 5-foot-11, 172-pound Madden and the Wolverines won the national championship in 1994.
As a senior, he was first-team all-Central Collegiate Athletic Association and a West all-American.
Madden, who now plays at 195, left Michigan in anger after hearing some advice from Berenson. "I didn't want to see John Madden become a career minor leaguer," Berenson said recently in a telephone interview. "I think he holds it against me that I advised him to hold a resume together, just in case he didn't make it. I told him there were no guarantees in hockey, so have a plan if you don't make it where you want to go."
Berenson said he gave all of his players the same advice. But when Madden found out that his teammate Brendan Morrison, a high draft pick by the Devils and the Hobey Baker award winner their senior season, had not been given the same advice, Madden and Berenson had a falling out.
Four years later Berenson is still seeking to repair the relationship.
"When you see him, tell him, 'Your coach is not mad at you,' " Berenson said. "Every time I read something about him, it's almost like, 'I'll show Michigan.' It's always like he's showing someone."
Lou Lamoriello, the Devils' president and general manager, noticed Madden while he was scouting Morrison, whom the Devils picked as the 39th pick over all in the 1993 draft. The Devils signed Madden as a free agent in 1997.
"What John has is a character and a quality about him that he competes against himself, whether he uses A, B or C to motivate him," Lamoriello said. "Every time I went to see Brendan, I came back liking John. The way he played, his huge enthusiasm for the game. I liked his intensity. You could see it on his face, the way he did things."
Madden had an outstanding rookie season. He scored 16 goals, led the league in short-handed goals with six and was an integral part of the Devils' Stanley Cup drive.
This season Madden improved his goal total to 23, all of them coming either at even strength or on the penalty kill.
"When he's got a growl on his face, or a snarl, it usually means he's getting himself ready to play," Robinson said.
And when Madden, whose face resembles a young James Cagney, does something he does not like, he talks to himself. Or, rather, barks at himself, berates himself, chides himself.
"In a team atmosphere, to be successful, you need different personalities," Lamoriello said. "And he's the type of player you have to have on your team."
Bobby Holik, who centered a line with Madden on his left and Randy McKay on his right for most of the first-round victory over Carolina, described Madden as intense. "That's what gives him the edge," Holik said. "Every one of us needs a certain edge to perform. He can't relax or dillydally. He wouldn't be as effective if he did."
Madden's job for the next couple of weeks will be to hound the Maple Leafs. Madden said today that he was looking forward to the matchup and to playing in front of his friends and family again.
Madden earned leaguewide recognition last spring during the Eastern Conference semifinal series against the Maple Leafs. Madden scored the game-winning goal in a pivotal Game 5 and added an empty-net score in Toronto in the decisive Game 6.
There are things left for Madden, who signed a four-year, $7 million contract during the off-season, to prove. He would like a chance on the power play (Robinson says Madden has carved a niche for himself on the penalty kill.)
"I really want to prove to myself that I can be one of the top two-way players in the league," said Madden, who covets the Selke Award as the league's top defensive forward.
"But what I really don't want is to have the people who believed in me look dumb after taking a chance on me four years ago."
And then there is the little matter of what to do after the N.H.L.
"They don't know it yet, but I want to coach at the University of Connecticut when my career's done," said Madden, who has a home there. He pondered what Berenson had told him when he left school.
"I guess I'm still making plans," Madden said, allowing a small smile creep across his face.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A lean start made John Madden hunger for success. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (76%); ATHLETES (75%); ICE HOCKEY (75%); TOURNAMENTS (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); SPORTS BUSINESS (60%); CONVENIENCE STORES (54%) HOCKEY, ICE; PLAYOFF GAMES 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (84%); TORONTO MAPLE LEAFS (59%) NEW JERSEY DEVILS; TORONTO MAPLE LEAFS 

PERSON: DIAMOS, JASON; MADDEN, JOHN (HOCKEY PLAYER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (93%) ONTARIO, CANADA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (91%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001 



706 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: METS NOTEBOOK; 
Brewers' New Park Is Dream Come True

BYLINE:  By TYLER KEPNER 

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE, April 24 

 BODY:
At the only retractable-roof baseball stadium in the Midwest, they use a regional analogy to measure the weight of the structure. According to a pregame scoreboard message tonight, the new home of the Milwaukee Brewers weighs 500,000 tons -- the same weight as 62,500,000 16-pound bowling balls.
 The scoreboard sits between a giant billboard screaming "Miller Time" in capital letters and another bearing the field's name, Miller Park. As far as Mets outfielder Darryl Hamilton can tell, the place has a flaw. 
 "I heard the beer costs $4 here; that's a crime," said Hamilton, a former Brewer. "It's 'Brew-town,' Miller Park -- they should give the beer away."
Hamilton left the Brewers as a free agent after the 1995 season, and he did not think the team would stay in Milwaukee. But, helped by a five-county sales tax increase of one-tenth of one percent, the Brewers have become the latest small-market team to open a new park.
"Now, it's reversed," Hamilton said. "All the small-market teams are getting new stadiums, and the big-market teams are searching."
That includes the Mets, whose own plans for a retractable-roof stadium have been stalled for years. The Mets' co-owner Fred Wilpon and other club officials took a private tour of Miller Park before tonight's game.
The Brewers' park was supposed to open last year, but a major construction accident in 1999 killed three ironworkers and pushed back the opening. The stadium's final cost of the 42,500-seat stadium came to $400 million.
Fans have responded with enthusiasm. The Brewers have already sold more than 2 million tickets, ensuring them of an attendance level they have reached only once in their 31-year history.
That was in 1983, the year after the Brewers' only World Series appearance. They have not made the postseason since, and have not had a winning season since 1992. For a team once owned by Commissioner Bud Selig, good times are finally returning.
"The pride and joy this ballpark is bringing to this community has been extraordinary," said Wendy Selig-Prieb, the Brewers' president and chief executive officer. "There's nothing like this anywhere in the Midwest. Everybody knew it was going to be nicer than County Stadium, but people had no idea it was going to be like this."
The Brewers, who closed the roof on a chilly night tonight, have played only one of their 10 home games with the roof open. The power alleys have come in about 20 feet from where they were at County Stadium, and the ball carries well.
"It flies out of here," said Brewers first baseman Richie Sexson, who puts on a daily batting practice show. "We're happy; the pitchers aren't. But you can never make everyone happy."
As a whole, though, the organization is overjoyed. The Brewers' payroll is $46 million, the most it has ever been, and Selig-Prieb said having a roof is allowing the Brewers to broaden their fan base; fans will come from farther away if they know they will watch a game in 67-degree comfort.
But, Selig-Prieb said, a new park alone is not a long-term solution to the Brewers' economic problems. The team must develop players well, she said, and the industry must correct its problems.
"We recognize there are economic issues that the industry is addressing that are also obviously very important to the future of this club and every other club," she said.

Mets Lose Rose
The Mets activated Benny Agbayani from the disabled list today, but they did not want to lose the player whose roster spot he took. The Tampa Bay Devil Rays claimed right-hander Brian Rose off waivers, two days before Rose would have made his first Mets start.
Without Rose, the team will recall the right-hander Brett Hinchliffe from Class AAA Norfolk on Thursday to start in place of Al Leiter, who has a strained ligament and tendon in his left elbow.
Grant Roberts, the club's best pitching prospect at Norfolk, started on Monday and has not pitched as well as Hinchliffe.
For the Mets and Rose, it was easy come, easy go. They acquired him from the Colorado Rockies on March 26 for Mark Leiter, a pitcher who was not in their plans. The problem was, Rose was out of minor league options, meaning the Mets could not send him to the minors without putting him through waivers.
They kept him on the team for three weeks, but with outfielders Agbayani and Timo Perez eligible to come off the disabled list today, the Mets had to put Rose on waivers last Friday to clear space. They had found little interest in him in trade talks, so they felt he might slip through. Tampa Bay was the only team that made a claim.
Had the Mets known Leiter's elbow condition would worsen on Friday night, they would not have put Rose on waivers that afternoon. But by the time they knew Leiter would miss his next start, it was too late to pull Rose back. Rose pitched in only three games for the Mets, all in relief.
Perez, as it turns out, was not ready to come off the disabled list. He has a strained groin and will not be activated until Friday, at the earliest.
Manager Bobby Valentine decided to be extra cautious and back up Leiter's next scheduled start to Tuesday. If Leiter is not ready by then, the Mets can put Leiter on the disabled list, retroactive to April 14.
"I think it's good," Leiter said. "I don't want this to be something that lingers all summer."
It's not major, but it's enough to aggravate me, and I realize rest is the only thing that will make this better. It's really the only course to calm it down and get it to where I can throw without feeling anything."

Ventura Takes Another Day
Third baseman Robin Ventura, who felt tightness in his hamstring while chasing after a foul pop on Sunday, got another day to rest. Joe McEwing, who had two hits on Sunday, started at third. Ventura did take batting practice, and Valentine said he was available to pinch-hit. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); BEER & ALE (90%); BASEBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); EXECUTIVES (60%); SALES TAX (53%); CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (50%) BASEBALL; MILLER PARK (MILWAUKEE); STADIUMS AND ARENAS 

ORGANIZATION: MILWAUKEE BREWERS (94%) MILWAUKEE BREWERS 

PERSON: KEPNER, TYLER 

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (95%) WISCONSIN, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (88%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001 



707 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Outraged at Commander's Fate 

BYLINE:  By CALVIN SIMS 

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 24 

 BODY:
For more than two months, Japan has struggled to understand how a United States nuclear submarine could have collided with a Japanese fishery school vessel, killing nine people in early February. Revelations that the submarine's captain and crew made a series of errors that led to the collision and that civilian guests were at some of the submarine's controls made the accident even harder to accept.
 Today, Japan's despair shifted to outrage -- particularly for relatives of the Japanese who were hurt or killed in the accident -- after the submarine's skipper, Cmdr. Scott D. Waddle, was allowed to resign and avoid any further punishment. 
 For many Japanese, the Navy's decision on Monday to honorably discharge Commander Waddle, who received a letter of reprimand but will keep his full rank and pension, was unacceptable and raised the issue of a possible double standard. 
A formal court of inquiry found that the commander had failed to follow proper procedures in the hours before his submarine, the Greeneville, collided with the school vessel, the Ehime Maru, on Feb. 9.
In interviews today, many Japanese said they could not understand the logic of a military justice system that they said essentially allowed Commander Waddle to walk away without real penalty, despite his clear negligence. 
Ryosuke Terata, 45, whose son Yusuke was one of nine Japanese who missing and presumed dead after the sinking, called the disciplinary action far too lenient.
"If he were in Japan, he would be fired and indicted on charges such as professional negligence resulting in death," Mr. Terata told the Kyodo news service. 
Kazuo Nakata, the father of Jun Nakata, a high school teacher who was also missing, said, "I cannot help feeling that the way this has ended is a farce."
Japan's outrage underscores the vast cultural gulf between the United States and Japan, the world's two largest and most advanced democratic economies. It is a gap that social and political analysts here say is often forgotten but one that becomes apparent when incidents like the submarine debacle occur.
"It is difficult for the Japanese to understand the workings of the military court because we are not a military power and have long ago denounced militarism," said Kuniko Inoguchi, a professor of international politics at Sophia University here. "This incident has taught us that in America, justice works differently when it comes to military affairs, but we are struggling to understand that because negligence in the case seems so clear."
Ms. Inoguchi added, "Some people are questioning whether the outcome would have been the same if it was an American or European ship that sank." 
For its part, the Japanese government said it had no plans to challenge the Navy's decision because the disciplinary action was taken according to United States law.
Ietaka Horita, principal of the Uwajima Fisheries High School, said it was important to remember that the survivors of the accident were still suffering from its trauma and emotional impact. Toshio Komado, 50, said his son Atsushi, who was rescued from the collision, had psychological and physical problems.
"The students are seeking a direct apology from him," Mr. Komado said, referring to Commander Waddle. "We want him to come to Japan and apologize, not as a civilian but as a member of the United States Navy." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY VESSELS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (88%); NEGLIGENCE (88%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); NAVIES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MILITARY COURTS (74%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (68%); INDICTMENTS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); POLITICS (66%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (66%) SHIPS AND SHIPPING; GREENEVILLE (SUBMARINE); ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; SUBMARINES; EHIME MARU (SHIP); NAVIES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (56%)

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN; WADDLE, SCOTT D (COMDR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001 



708 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING 

 BODY:
 EUROPE

RUSSIA: AMERICAN'S TRIAL OPENS
The trial of an American on drug charges opened in Voronezh, in central Russia. John Tobin, left, a 24-year-old Fulbright scholar, faces up to 15 years in jail if convicted. He denies any wrongdoing and says marijuana found in his apartment was planted by the police. The security force also says he was training to be a spy, but admits there are no grounds to prosecute him. (Reuters)

VATICAN CITY: ARMENIAN IS 'MARTYR'
The Vatican proclaimed an Armenian Catholic bishop who was killed in 1915 and 26 Ukrainians who died in Communist persecutions to be martyrs, the first step toward sainthood. The honor for Ignace Maloyan, archbishop of Mardin, Turkey, came on the day that Armenians commemorate the deaths of hundreds of thousands in what they say was an Ottoman campaign to force them out of eastern Turkey. Turkey says that the toll is inflated and that Armenians were killed or resettled as the empire tried to quell unrest. The Ukrainians were killed during anti-church campaigns by Ukraine's former Communist rulers. (AP)

CROATIA: SERBS' BODIES DUG UP
Experts from the United Nations war crimes tribunal began excavating a site at Knin that may hold the bodies of 250 Serbs killed in 1995 when the area was overrun by Croatian forces. Six bodies were found on the first day, The Associated Press reported. Local Croats deny that war crimes were committed, but Croatia's new leadership is cooperating with the tribunal. Carlotta Gall (NYT)

BRITAIN: FOOT-AND-MOUTH IN HUMANS
The government is investigating three cases where humans may have contracted foot-and-mouth disease, but officials said the danger was no greater than that posed by mild flu. There has been only one confirmed case of human foot-and-mouth disease in Britain, in 1966. The news was a setback for tourism officials, who are concerned that visitors are staying away, confusing foot-and-mouth with mad cow disease, which clearly can be transmitted to humans and cause death. Warren Hoge (NYT)

IRELAND: INFORMER AGAINST 'REAL I.R.A.'
A Dublin court was told that the chief prosecution witness in the trial of Michael McKevitt, suspected leader of the Real I.R.A., is David Rupert, 49, an American F.B.I. agent who infiltrated the dissident guerrilla group, which opposes the Northern Ireland peace accord. The Real I.R.A. was responsible for the bombing of Omagh in 1998 that killed 29 people. Mr. McKevitt, 51, was arrested in March and is facing a maximum life sentence. Warren Hoge (NYT)

ASIA

PHILIPPINES:
A Manila court ordered the arrest of former President Joseph Estrada today on a charge of economic plunder, a non-bailable offense which carries the death penalty, Presiding Judge Francis Garchitorena said. Lawyers for Mr. Estrada, who denies any wrongdoing, said earlier that the deposed leader was prepared to turn himself in once the court handed down an arrest order. (Reuters)

INDIA: FLASHY POLITICIAN BARRED
Officials barred Jayaram Jayalalitha, chief minister of Tamil Nadu from 1991 to 1996 and a popular movie star, from running in state elections on May 10. A law bars anyone sentenced to prison for more than two years from contesting an election for six years. Jayalalitha is appealing a verdict last year finding her guilty of graft when she was chief minister. (Reuters)

KOREAN PENINSULA: SOUTH AIDING NORTH
The South is to ship 200,000 tons of fertilizer to the North, hoping the gift will provide fresh momentum for inter-Korean relations. Talks have largely stopped since President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea met last month in Washington with President Bush, who is skeptical about Kim Jong Il of North Korea. Don Kirk (NYT)

AFRICA

DUTIES ON MOSQUITO NETS LIFTED
Five countries plan to slash import duties on mosquito nets, a vital barrier against malaria, which kills a million Africans each year. Kenya, Ghana, Cameroon, Mozambique and Namibia are to reduce the duties, which can account for 40 percent of the price of a net. Nigeria, Ivory Coast, Uganda, Tanzania and Zambia did so last year. Donald G. McNeil Jr. (NYT)

ZIMBABWE: LAWYERS CRITICIZE MUGABE
The International Bar Association sharply criticized President Robert Mugabe, condemning the government for refusing to obey court orders and for intimidating judges who have ordered black squatters to abandon white-owned farms they have occupied. Rachel L. Swarns (NYT)

AMERICAS

CANADA: DEFECTIONS FROM ALLIANCE
Dissension within the Canadian Alliance continues to undermine the leadership of Stockwell Day. Deborah Grey resigned as deputy parliamentary leader and Chuck Strahl as caucus chairman to signal a lack of confidence in Mr. Day as official opposition leader. Mr. Day became leader last year, but the party's poor election performance in November and some embarassing controversies have left him struggling to retain his position. Anthony DePalma (NYT)

BRAZIL: AN IMPORTANT ADMISSION
Deepening the corruption scandal paralyzing Congress, Jose Arruda, the Senate majority leader until last week, admitted that he had ordered the rigging of computers so he could determine how colleagues voted in secret ballots. He said he acted with Antonio Carlos Magalhaes, who was president of the Senate at the time; Mr. Magalhaes denies any involvement. Larry Rohter (NYT)

THE WORLD

BIOLOGICAL-WEAPONS INSPECTIONS
Nations that have ratified the 1972 convention on biological weapons were urged to break a six-year deadlock and set up a global inspection system. Tibor Toth of Hungary, chairman of the talks, submitted a compromise draft to help iron out divisive details, including the scope and intrusiveness of on-site inspections. Elizabeth Olson (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); WAR CRIMES (89%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (87%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (86%); SENTENCING (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); ARREST WARRANTS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (75%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (75%); JUDGES (73%); BAIL (73%); WITNESSES (73%); CANNABIS (73%); BOMBINGS (70%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (63%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%) CROATIA (94%); ARMENIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); TURKEY (93%); UKRAINE (93%); EUROPE (92%); HOLY SEE (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); IRELAND (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001 



709 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Our Towns; 
Laborers Wanted (Sometimes)

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW PURDY 

DATELINE: FARMINGVILLE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
WITH spring in bloom, the grass growing and yards needing tending, the country's commitment-averse, seasonal romance with day laborers is back where it left off: Can't live with them, can't landscape without them.
 Hector Vlasco has felt both ends of the equation. Every morning, as he stands outside a fried chicken joint with dozens of other immigrant laborers, the promise of America comes rolling along in the form of contractors driving by to offer a day's work for far more than he could make in his native El Salvador. 
 But he has felt the rougher edge, most recently a few weeks ago when some people pulled up while he was waiting for a bus home after work. "They came by in a car and said: 'You Spanish. Go back where you came from,' " he said, repeating a string of curses he said had been spewed at him. 
The welcome wagon has been traveling Farmingville for several years, bellowing these contradictory messages to the hundreds of immigrant laborers -- many of them illegal immigrants from Mexico -- who have found an uncomfortable home in this working-class Suffolk County town.
Like other communities around the country, Farmingville has become the servants' quarters for laborers who earn a living in wealthier suburbs. Farmingville has turned angry and divisive as it has tried to find its way in a swirl of such big forces as record immigration, low unemployment, sprawl and a shortage of cheap housing.
There is much concern about men waiting outside convenience stores for jobs and about houses jammed with laborers. Language has turned extreme, followed by threats of violence. Leaders of a civic group that denounces the men have linked arms with an outspoken critic of immigration in Los Angeles, Glenn Spencer, who said the fight here was important to counter the Latino plan "to take the whole Northern Hemisphere."
Last fall, two Mexican laborers were picked up here by men posing as contractors who then beat the workers, the police say. County legislators later approved $80,000 for a hiring center to move the workers off the streets and bring order to the daily job bazaar. But the county executive, Robert J. Gaffney, vetoed it, saying it would condone violating labor and immigration laws.
YESTERDAY the Legislature considered overriding the veto, putting Farmingville back at the center of the country's ambiguous relationship with illegal immigrants. Carlos Canales, once an illegal factory worker who is now an advocate for immigrants, was standing outside the session. If the laborers are such a problem, he said, "how come the government doesn't use its power to throw us away?" He thinks the answer is the need for cheap laborers who are beholden to employers. "That's business," he said.
The federal government says it lacks the resources to hunt down illegal workers beyond the most egregious cases. Yet granting widespread immigration amnesty is politically thorny. This legal limbo is seen by the most vitriolic critics as license to treat the immigrants as an infestation. 
"We have a right to be angry," said Ray Wysolmierski of the Sachem Quality of Life Organization, which is leading the fight against the laborers. "If these guys are beaten up, they don't have a right to be angry. They don't have a right to be here." With the influx of immigrants, he said, "I'm paying taxes for a suburban life, but I'm dealing with de facto urbanization."
Others not in the group object with less emotion. John Kinsella, a bricklayer who came from Ireland nine years ago, said that as a hard-working immigrant, he was irked by reports that many of the laborers have no green cards and do not pay taxes. "If they came here and lived like everyone else, there would be no problem," he said.
Local officials are left to negotiate between the immigration laws they have no power to enforce or change and the health and safety of all the residents -- new immigrants and immigrants' descendants alike -- they are obligated to protect. Paul J. Tonna, the presiding officer of the Legislature, who supports the hiring-center proposal, compared it to another controversial question: "Do we give heroin addicts needles to prevent the spread of AIDS?"
The Legislature voted yesterday against financing the center. It was a victory to those who saw the center as fostering lawlessness. Others wondered.
"Is the status quo a victory?" asked Ed Hernandez, a Farmingville resident who heads a group called Citizens for Peaceful Solutions. "What is being won here today? As sure as the sun will rise tomorrow, the streets of Farmingville will be filled with day laborers tomorrow." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); COUNTIES (87%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (87%); VETO (84%); MIGRANT WORKERS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); REFUGEES (71%); LEGISLATION (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); RETAILERS (50%); CONVENIENCE STORES (50%) LABOR; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; VETOES (US); MIGRANT LABOR 

PERSON: PURDY, MATTHEW; GAFFNEY, ROBERT J (COUNTY EXEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (92%) FARMINGVILLE (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001 



710 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business Briefing; 
GLOOMY FORECAST IN CONNECTICUT

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 Purchasing managers for Connecticut companies predict that the economic slowdown will continue in the second quarter of the year, a survey by the Connecticut Business and Industry Association found. 
The survey's results, released yesterday, were based on responses from managers who are responsible for buying the materials that go into a company's product. "If they're not buying, things aren't happening," said Peter Gioia, an economist with the association. "These latest results show that both purchasing managers' confidence and purchasing activity continue to reflect a slower economy" but do not show a recession, Mr. Gioia said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TRENDS (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); RECESSION (88%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT BUSINESS & INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001 



711 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: MANAGEMENT; 
A Factory's Crash Course in Economics Pays Off

BYLINE:  By WELD ROYAL 

DATELINE: BUFFALO 

 BODY:
As the economy slows and layoffs increase, some companies are giving employees crash courses in Economics 101 and personal finance so they will understand the tough decisions managers have to make in hard times -- and learn how to plan for hard times themselves.
 And as a recent visit to the Outokumpu American Brass factory in this struggling industrial town suggests, treating blue-collar workers like thinking human beings rather than cogs in a machine can bolster workplace morale and even give corporate profits a boost. 
 The plant, a renovated copper and brass factory built at the turn of the 20th century, was almost shut down in 1984 by the Atlantic Richfield Company because of flagging sales and labor unrest. But local investors bought the plant, which makes everything from brass buttons to shell casings for the Israeli Army to electrical connectors for cell phones, and quickly turned it around. 
In 1990, they sold it to Outokumpu Oyj, a Finnish mining and metals conglomerate, for a healthy profit.
Outokumpu officials said they reasoned that purchasing the plant, one of the largest copper and brass rolling mills in the United States, would lift their company's global presence. But officials knew they would have to raise workers' productivity over the long haul to make the investment pay off.
Officials thought one way to do that would be to teach them the economic and financial basics of the company's markets, and solicit their ideas on how to run the plant -- a process started by the local investors. So in 1991, Outokumpu hired Cornell University's School of Industrial and Labor Relations in Buffalo to give employees what amounted to a crash course in the basics of the brass industry.
At first, employees were not in a cooperative mood, recalls Lou Jean Fleron, the school's director. When she went to the plant to talk about the global economy and its supposed benefits, Ms. Fleron says, she was astounded at their hostility toward their new employer. "They saw it as us against them, a takeover by this evil foreign company," she said.
But the Cornell instructors persisted. In a session on global economic changes, Ms. Fleron explained that investments by foreign companies in American plants were increasing. She distributed an article by Robert B. Reich, the former labor secretary, outlining the benefits, including examples of how overseas capital had saved American jobs. And in round-the-clock workshops scheduled throughout the next year so that employees from all three shifts could attend, the instructors taught everything from the impact of technology on the workplace and the dynamics of international competition to the intricacies of corporate income statements and the factors that influence the pricing of commodities.
Some topics set off angry debates. One furnace maker used to argue with Ms. Fleron over the inequities of global business, and insisted that protectionist trade policies were the only way to keep good jobs in the United States. The workshops are now held every three years.
Before long, employees now say, they began to see the connection between the classroom discussions and their working conditions. For example, they say, after learning about manufacturing costs in developing countries and in newly industrialized countries like South Korea, they had a more sophisticated understanding of how their own wages were set.
The lessons were even more basic than that. "When I first got here, nobody knew where the metal went" after it left the plant, said Verdell Hannah, a crew leader in the cast shop. "Some people didn't even know what people in the next department did."
The furnace maker in favor of protectionist trade policies ended up leaving Outokumpu. Now he handles business development worldwide for a high-technology textile maker. 
Today, management holds quarterly meetings for all 850 employees to discuss plant operations, market conditions and investments in new equipment. And, said Warren E. Bartel, president of Outokumpu American Brass, "the questions -- about pricing, competition and customers -- seem to get better every year."
In addition, Outokumpu invites customers to tour the production lines and talk to workers about the factory's products. And it has begun soliciting employees' views on ways to increase productivity. Last year, for example, management asked Brian Martinick, a 43-year-old machinist, for advice on replacing a metal-turning lathe used to repair equipment. So Mr. Martinick got together with several other machine operators to do some research and observe the performance of computer-driven lathes at other plants.
"It's like buying a car," Mr. Martinick said. "The salesmen will tell you what you want to hear, so we talked to the equipment operators to find out what exactly these machines do." 
Their proposal, which was approved, was to buy a Bridgeport Romi computer-controlled lathe for about $60,000. Since it repairs equipment more quickly than a manual lathe, the device helps the plant to hold down inventory, Mr. Martinick says. He thinks it is well on the way to paying for itself.
Armed with his newfound economic expertise, Mr. Martinick sometimes sounds more like a business professor than a machinist. "Energy costs are up, so that increases product costs," he said. "Customers' budgets have been cut. It's looking like recession." 
For now, though, the plant is flourishing. Sales rose to nearly $400 million last year, up from about $270 million when Mr. Bartel joined in 1993. And the Finnish company, which has spent $120 million over the last decade to modernize the factory, has plans to invest $70 million in the next decade. It also gives annual bonuses linked to sales. The latest payments, made in February, averaged $3,800 a worker.
There are some clouds on the horizon. Outokumpu's decision to shut down a factory in Wisconsin was a reminder to the workers here of the precariousness of their trade, even though they inherited the Midwestern plant's electronic connector-strip business. Moreover, orders have slipped as the economy has slowed, and Outokumpu has reduced overtime and laid off a small number of employees.
From the outside, Outokumpu American Brass remains an uninspiring sight. A collection of red-brick buildings and an eight-story furnace, it is surrounded by run-down shops and empty parking lots in this city's dilapidated Riverside section.
But that belies what is happening inside. The factory earned a national A.F.L.-C.I.O. award for its labor-management cooperation four years ago. The Commerce Department uses it as a case study for effective employee involvement. The Buffalo plant has had visits from Irish zinc miners, officials from Poland and steel company executives from Pittsburgh, who all want to know how workers and their bosses manage to get along.
"I put a presentation together because all these companies were benchmarking us," Mr. Martinick said. "They came from Australia to see what we did." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: At Outokumpu American Brass in Buffalo, management has begun soliciting the opinions of factory workers like Dan McPhee, left, and Brian Martinick on ways to lift productivity. (Derek Gee for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); METAL ORE MINING (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (87%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); COPPER INDUSTRY (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); COPPER ROLLING DRAWING & ALLOYING (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); WORKPLACE MORALE (73%); PROTECTIONISM (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); ARMIES (55%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%) COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS; BONUSES; LABOR 

COMPANY: OUTOKUMPU OYJ (84%); BP PLC (70%); LUVATA BUFFALO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: OUTOKUMPU AMERICAN BRASS CO 

TICKER: OUT1V (HEL) (84%); BP (NYSE) (70%); BP (LSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331529 OTHER NONFERROUS METAL FOUNDRIES (EXCEPT DIE-CASTING) (84%); SIC3366 COPPER FOUNDRIES (84%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (84%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (70%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (70%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); NAICS331420 COPPER ROLLING, DRAWING, EXTRUDING & ALLOYING (58%); SIC3351 ROLLING, DRAWING, & EXTRUDING OF COPPER (58%) SIC3351 COPPER ROLLING & DRAWING; 

PERSON: ROYAL, WELD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001 



712 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: S.& P. Cuts Ratings On California Debt,Citing Power Costs 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif., April 24 

 BODY:
Ratings on $25 billion of California bonds were cut two notches, to A+ from AA, by the Standard & Poor's Corporation today because of the state's mounting energy costs.
 The move, seven months after S.& P. raised California's bond rating to AA, shows the effects of a statewide energy crisis. The state has spent $5.15 billion buying power, 60 percent of this year's budget surplus, on behalf of its two largest utilities, the Pacific Gas and Electric unit of the PG&E Corporation and Southern California Edison unit of Edison International. 
 California plans to sell $10 billion of bonds backed by a slice of utility company revenue to cover the power-buying costs, said Philip Angelides, the state treasurer.
"The magnitude of the problem is large enough" to warrant the downgrade now, David Hitchcock, a director of Standard & Poor's, said. S.& P. issued a downgrade warning in January, citing uncertainty about the state's future power liabilities.
In a statement on today's action, S.& P. blamed the rising and "uncertain cost to the state of the current electrical power crisis, as well as its likely long-term detrimental" effect on the economy. S.& P. also cut ratings on other California debt, like lease bonds backed by the state's general fund.
Based on the new credit rating and current market rates, California will have to pay $1.8 million more in interest during a 20-year period to raise $100 million in debt, according to Bloomberg Fair Value curves.
"I think it's warranted and the right thing to do," said George Strickland, who manages about $1.8 billion of bonds at Thornburg Investment Management in Santa Fe, N.M. "This has been hanging over the market for a long time."
The PG&E and Edison utilities accumulated more than $14 billion in power-buying losses since last summer, as wholesale power costs soared and prices the companies could charge customers were frozen under the state's deregulation law. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (69%) GOVERNMENT BONDS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER 

COMPANY: PG&E CORP (94%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (93%); EDISON INTERNATIONAL (71%); SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP; PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC CO; PG&E CORP; SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO; EDISON INTERNATIONAL INC 

TICKER: PCG (SWX) (94%); PCG (NYSE) (94%); EIX (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (94%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (94%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (93%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (93%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (71%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (71%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (71%) SIC2721 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001 



713 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: Even in Bad Times, Let's Forget the Tie 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "After the Fall, the New Economy Goes Retro," by Andres Martinez (Editorial Observer, April 23):
Mr. Martinez says that now that the dot-com bubble has burst, "a sobering back-to-basics impulse is ascendant in American life," and suits are back in style. 
But if wearing ties becomes more widespread during a recession, ties will disappear even faster during the next upturn.
 People were ready to abandon ties in the freewheeling 1970's, but Jimmy Carter stopped wearing jackets instead, and looked ridiculous in a sweater and tie. Bill Clinton, often wearing a jacket without a tie, had it right. A jacket with no tie looks elegant and free. 
 For President Bush to require ties in the Oval Office only reinforces the fact that people do not wear them voluntarily.
Mr. Bush's insistence on wearing ties reminds me of my first year out of college, when I grew a mustache to try to look more mature.

MARK WESTON
Armonk, N.Y., April 23, 2001

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christoph Niemann) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (88%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; APPAREL; TIES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (67%); BILL CLINTON (54%); JIMMY CARTER (54%) MARTINEZ, ANDRES; WESTON, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001 



714 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1882 words

HEADLINE: Critic's Notebook; 
Get Out Your Shoulder Pads: The 80's Are Here

BYLINE:  By MICHIKO KAKUTANI 

 BODY:
Julian Schnabel is back. Pee-wee Herman is back. Jerry Bruckheimer is back. And Madonna, the original Material Girl, is back.
 Sequined mini-skirts, slinky one-shouldered dresses, hardware studded tops, Lurex jumpsuits and big-shouldered power suits are back. So are designer logos, gem-encrusted chandelier earrings and jeans by Jordache, Gloria Vanderbilt and Sergio Valente. Michael Jackson is trying to stage a comeback. Nancy Reagan red is in again, and so is the scary mullet haircut. 
 Nineties grunge is gone. Seinfeldian minimalism has given way to the operatic kitsch of "Gladiator" and "Hannibal." And "Dallas" and "Dynasty"-era glitz ruled at this year's Oscars and Golden Globes. 
Nostalgia for the 80's? That unseemly era of "Greed is good," that decade of bad taste and wretched excess, escapist entertainment, designer food and macho posturing? Isn't this taking our mania for cultural recycling too far, too fast? Not only is President George W. Bush doing an impersonation of Ronald Reagan's hands-off managerial style (right down to the afternoon naps) and adopting policies -- from a Star Wars missile shield to tax cuts to environmental rollbacks -- that have a decided feel of deja vu, but the country at large seems intent on doing its own imitation of the 80's as well.
There are radio stations and clubs specializing in 80's music; 80's-themed parties where guests dress up like Bo Derek and Morgan Fairchild; and an 80's Web site (www.80s.com) that features trivia games about movies like "Risky Business" and "Fast Times at Ridgemont High." The teen pop idols of today -- Britney Spears, 'N Sync and the Backstreet Boys -- are younger, shriller descendants of Duran Duran, Bon Jovi and the other eye-candy stars of the 80's who capitalized on MTV's debut in 1982, just as Hollywood's current obsession with ever younger stars recalls the 80's heyday of the original Brat Pack. Even the women around Bill Clinton -- Hillary in her power suits, Denise Rich in her spangled, cleavage-baring gowns and Monica Lewinsky in her tight dresses and coy hats -- seem like throwbacks to that era of "Dynasty," "Wall Street" and "Flashdance."
Our romance with the 80's began more than a year ago, before the fall of Nasdaq, with newly rich dot-comers following in the Gucci-clad footsteps of the yuppie, that much maligned creature declared dead or at least endangered by Newsweek magazine in 1988. Sure, the style, initially, was different -- casual Friday khakis instead of suspenders and suits, S.U.V.'s instead of BMW's -- but the giddy consumerist ethos was all too familiar. The easy money to be made on Wall Street not only nourished a host of catalogs and Web sites specializing in high-end designer trifles, but it also turned shows like "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire" into instant hits, nurturing the notion that anyone with a smattering of knowledge and a smidgen of luck could strike it rich.
With the downturn in the stock market and murmurings of a recession, however, things have taken on a more ominous tone. In recent months, "Millionaire," with the avuncular Regis Philbin and the comforting "phone a friend" support system, has taken a hit in the ratings, and this month's much ballyhooed new show, "Weakest Link," features a haughty Englishwoman named Anne Robinson whom NBC's Jeff Zucker calls "the anti-Reege." Her specialty: cruel, mocking putdowns of ignorant contestants, who are voted off the show and forced to take a "walk of shame."
The social Darwinism of the "Survivor" shows -- ratified by the popularity of the book "The Darwin Awards," commemorating people who removed themselves from the gene pool through acts of gross stupidity -- opened the way to shows with an even more masochistic twist. There's "Boot Camp," which features 16 "military recruits" who sign up to be yelled at and humiliated by former Marine drill instructors; "Eco-Challenge," an extreme version of "Survivor;" and "Chains of Love," which revolves around a man or woman handcuffed to four strangers of the opposite sex.
The stark black outfits worn by Anne Robinson on "Weakest Link" enhance her authoritarian image, and they reflect a nervous society's obsession with power and control -- a phenomenon echoed by the new-found popularity of the Marquis de Sade, the subject of three recent biographies as well as "Quills," a movie nominated for three Academy Awards. Dominatrix gear, pioneered by Azzedine Alaia in the 80's, is enjoying a comeback, with design houses as varied as Helmut Lang, Gucci, Versace, Krizia and Donna Karan showing bondage and S-and-M looks for the spring. Eighties stiletto heels are fashionable again, along with stern pinstripe suits, studded boots and wide "power belts."
"It's not dressing for success, it's not Faye Dunaway in 'Network,' " the March issue of Vogue magazine observes. "If anything, it's Peter Finch yelling, 'We're mad as hell, and we're not going to take it anymore!' " The May issue of GQ adds: "Pay homage to the decade that spawned Ronald Reagan, the power suit and the pointy-toe shoe."
This fascination with raw power -- nurtured by masters-of-the-universe fantasies, and accelerated by worries about losing that status -- is also reflected in our current choice of cultural icons, reminiscent of the testosterone-fueled heroes of the 80's. 
James Gandolfini's Tony Soprano is a New Jersey Everyman, coping with family angst and panic attacks, but he's also a take-no-prisoners mob boss, capable of coolly executing his pal Pussy, or garroting a snitch while taking his daughter on a college-visiting trip. He may not have Michael Corleone's cold, shark-eyed control, but he still possesses an outlaw's ability to settle scores with his bare hands -- an ability most of his neighbors in suburban North Caldwell lack. "Tony Soprano fears no enemy," reads a new ad from Oxford University Press. "Sun Tzu taught him how. 'The Art of War' -- the book for bosses."
Dr. Lecter, another appetitive, if less conflicted killer, is enjoying a renaissance, with the movie "Hannibal" boasting the largest box-office opening to date for an R-rated movie. As played by Anthony Hopkins, the debonair man-eater -- whom Thomas Harris first introduced in his 80's best sellers "Red Dragon" (1981) and "The Silence of the Lambs" (1988) -- readily wins the support of audiences who share his taste for the finer things in life (good wines, Renaissance art and Italian fashion) and secretly admire his Machiavellian intelligence, his ruthlessness, his instinct for others' weaknesses -- the same sort of skills that enable survivors on "Survivor" to survive.
As for Russell Crowe's Maximus in "Gladiator," he represents an 00's answer to Sylvester Stallone's Rambo and Arnold Schwarzenegger's Conan -- those 1980's action-adventure heroes with brawny chests and scowling visages who used sheer brawn and steroidal will to avenge themselves on the powers that done them wrong. Maximus's maxim "Strength and Honor" has become a kind of mantra for Soprano mobsters, and it was uncannily echoed by former President George Bush at last year's Republican National Convention when he described the qualities he felt his son, George W., would bring to the White House.
Though the younger Mr. Bush has been sharply criticized for being a friend of big business and for pushing a tax plan that favors the rich, a gung-ho Reaganesque capitalism has been embraced by segments of the culture that resisted it the first time around in the 80's. Back in 1987, when Nike used the Beatles song "Revolution" in a sneaker ad, there were howls of protest about selling out. Today, in an environment in which even film of Martin Luther King Jr.'s "I Have a Dream" speech was licensed by his family to a communications company for a television ad, the commodification of art is increasingly a given.
Indeed, commercial exposure is now widely considered a useful publicity tool: Sting turned his song "Desert Rose" into a hit by licensing its video to Jaguar cars; Moby scored exposure -- and sales -- for his album "Play" by making more than 100 deals with movie and television productions, and companies like Nordstrom and American Express.
Well-known actors and directors, once loath to tarnish their star status with commercial endorsements, are now jumping at the chance to become pitchmen. Jeremy Irons and Milla Jovovich are starring in a series of Donna Karan print ads inspired by the movies "The Lover" and "Indochine"; Uma Thurman has become the new face of Lancome cosmetics; Rob Lowe and Matt Dillon have signed deals with Skechers shoes. Later this month, BMW cars will begin Webcasts of five short films produced by David Fincher, the director of "Fight Club" and "Seven"; the ads, which the company says "merge art, entertainment, technology and commerce in a way never seen before," have been directed by Ang Lee, John Frankenheimer and Guy Ritchie, among others, and will feature performers like Madonna and Mickey Rourke.
Back in 1985, the year the Dow passed 1,300, Madonna sang, "We are living in a material world and I am a material girl" -- an anthem for an era of takeovers and acquisitiveness that abruptly ended two years later, when the Dow dropped 508 points in a single day and for a time ushered in a new, more subdued zeitgeist.
Today's stock market woes have yet to produce such a cultural U-turn. Newsstands still sell glossy magazines like Opulence, which claims to reach "an audience with an average net worth of $9.9 million," and Tycoon, whose spring issue features an interview with Sir Richard Branson, chairman of the Virgin Group. ("We love this guy. He has style, charisma, vision, babes, and he's amazingly rich.") And the best-seller lists remain packed with books like "The Millionaire Next Door," "Ordinary People, Extraordinary Wealth" and "Rich Dad, Poor Dad." 
An article by David Brooks titled "The Organization Kid," in the current issue of The Atlantic Monthly reports that today's college students, who were mostly born in the early 80's, have adopted a pragmatic, success-oriented outlook as well; for them, teenage alienation and rebellion are passe, replaced by what Mr. Brooks calls "the achievement ethos." 
At the same time, entrepreneurs -- from Sean (Puffy) Combs to Dave Longaberger, whose posthumous account of his basket-weaving business became a No. 1 New York Times best seller last month -- continue to exert a hold over the public imagination, a fascination that apparently extends to drug dealers as well. The new movie "Blow," starring Johnny Depp, is based on the real-life story of a small-town New England kid who became a big-time cocaine dealer in the 1980's. And a new Palm-programmed version of the 1980's computer game "Dope Wars," which enables a player to adopt the role of an urban drug dealer, has recently achieved cult status on Wall Street and in Hollywood.
Given the ailing economy and fears of a recession, this 80's-style fascination with the lives of the rich and infamous is increasingly looking like wishful thinking, Depression-era escapism or get-it-while-you-can desperation. Today's "hot strategy," Rolling Stone magazine reports, is "milking it": "the smart money," the former counterculture publication observes, "is on getting it while you can, however you can, as fast as you can."

GRAPHIC: Photos: POWER AND CONTROL -- Clockwise from left, Sean (Puffy) Combs; a Helmut Lang model in dominatrix wear; Madonna; Russell Crowe in "Gladiator"; Britney Spears; Anthony Hopkins in "Hannibal"; the reality show "Boot Camp"; President George W. Bush; Paul Reubens, a k a Pee-wee Herman, in "Blow"; Denise Rich, ex-wife of Marc Rich, pardoned financier; Regis Philbin on "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire"; Anne Robinson of the new quiz show "Weakest Link"; James Gandolfini in "The Sopranos"; and Richard Hatch in the first "Survivor." (Illustration by Jelly Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); POP & ROCK (75%); MUSIC (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (66%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (66%) CULTURE; NINETEEN HUNDRED EIGHTIES 

COMPANY: NEWSWEEK INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: MADONNA (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JERRY BRUCKHEIMER (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (66%); REGIS PHILBIN (59%); BRITNEY SPEARS (58%); BILL CLINTON (57%); JON BON JOVI (50%); SEAN (DIDDY) COMBS (50%) KAKUTANI, MICHIKO 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001 



715 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Mayor to Unveil Budget Plan as Talk of Compromise Takes Confrontational Turn 

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON 

 BODY:
In a year in which the city's political calendar is already jammed with headline-grabbing events, the Giuliani administration and City Council leaders have begun to prepare for what might yet turn into another blockbuster: a full-scale budget war.
 Today, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani is scheduled to issue his eighth and final budget plan, a $39 billion package for the 2002 fiscal year that cuts more than $150 million in spending in certain city programs while also advocating about $500 million in new tax cuts, among other changes. 
 Such a plan may well serve a Republican mayor who City Hall officials say is trying, in his last year in office, to reassert his credentials as a fiscal conservative. But City Council leaders have their own agenda in this election year: they are calling for an extra $548 million for city schools and other new spending in services for youths and the elderly, while also offering working-class voters a different and much less expensive set of tax cuts. 
Mayor Giuliani and Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone, a Democratic candidate for mayor, have indicated a willingness to try to reach a compromise before a planned final vote in early June. But their staff members used terms like "showdown" and "collision course" yesterday to describe the state of affairs.
Talk has already started to return to 1998, the first time in city history that the Council adopted its own budget, a step that drew a quick mayoral veto and then months of venom-filled wrangling.
"If there aren't sufficient tax cuts in the budget, I will not be able to approve the budget," Mr. Giuliani declared yesterday at his daily news conference in City Hall. "I have done that once before. I did not approve the budget, and we saved more money that year than any year that I was the mayor. So from my point of view that would not be an undesirable result."
Such tough talk at this point in the budget process could be construed as merely the opening maneuvers for negotiations. But complicating the picture this year is the political backdrop, with some officials bluntly acknowledging that a robust budget fight might help Mr. Vallone, who is one of four main Democrats in the mayoral race. 
"We are on the side of angels," said one City Council official, referring to spending and tax cut programs that are carefully tailored to benefit Mr. Vallone's target voting audience: middle-class residents, parents of school-age children and the elderly. "Sometimes getting into a fight with the mayor is a good thing. Talk to the Brooklyn Museum."
If the 1998 budget impasse is any guide, the outcome this year will depend less upon the substance of the budget and more upon the political points the two sides are trying to make. In 1998, the mayor asserted that the Council was endangering the city's future fiscal stability by phasing out an income tax surcharge that he now likes to claim credit for eliminating. Another factor in the fight was the Council's insistence that a referendum be held if the mayor wanted to spend city tax dollars to build a new Yankees ballpark on the West Side of Manhattan, a plan Mr. Giuliani has since abandoned. 
What is clear is that the budget talks this year are off to a much more confrontational start than a year ago. Last April, even before budget negotiations began, Mr. Giuliani restored many of the cuts he had first proposed in January 2000 for city libraries, cultural institutions, parks and other programs.
Today, he is expected to back down on a small piece of his $155 million in cuts for 2002, perhaps, for example, agreeing to continue a program that provides weekend meals to low-income elderly residents. But at the same time, he has said he intends to add tens of millions more in spending reductions, citing the downturn in the national economy. 
On the tax side, there is a similar reversal in strategy. A year ago, after initially proposing a tax cut in January that critics called too expensive, the mayor in April scaled back his tax cut plan. This year, he intends to add about $180 million in proposed city personal income tax cuts, increasing his entire tax cut plan for 2002 to $494 million, 23 percent more than he first proposed in January, officials have said.
The result is that he is squeezing the Council on both the revenue and spending ends, which is not welcome at a time when Mr. Vallone is running for mayor and many other Council members facing term limits are vying for offices including comptroller, public advocate and borough president.
"The last budget that you do is the budget you will be longest remembered by, so he is trying to make sure he is remembered as a fiscally responsible conservative," said Councilman Herbert E. Berman, a Brooklyn Democrat who is chairman of the Council Finance Committee and a candidate for city comptroller. "But for the Council, the agenda is quite different: many of the members are trying to appeal to constituency groups that vary depending on what office they are running for."
Tensions have already been heightened between the two sides in recent weeks. Today, for example, the heavily Democratic Council is going to vote on overriding four mayoral vetoes related to matters as varied as the city's campaign finance program and a so-called anti-sweatshop law limiting companies the city contracts with to buy uniforms.
Mr. Giuliani made clear yesterday that he is willing to negotiate about the mix of tax cuts that end up in the final approved budget. He hinted that at some point, he would, as he always has, acquiesce to restoring some of his proposed spending cuts to items like libraries and programs for the elderly. But his aides were still talking tough.
"You can rest assured the mayor won't flinch first," one senior Giuliani administration official said. "It comes down to a battle over priorities: tax cuts or pork."
Mr. Vallone added yesterday that "both sides may be flexing their muscles a little bit," right now, but that he remains hopeful the Council and mayor will reach a compromise.
"Last year was a much more congenial, agreed-upon process," Mr. Vallone said. "But my major concern is not as mayoral contender, it is speaker. I want to make sure we leave this house in the same kind of order we placed it in over the last decade. I am not going to leave it a mess." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (92%); MAYORS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); VETO (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); CHILDREN (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%) LIPTON, ERIC; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001 



716 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: NYC; 
A Wondrous Season of Announcements Takes Hold

BYLINE:  By CLYDE HABERMAN 

 BODY:
THIS just in: Mark Green is running for mayor. Mr. Green, the public advocate, made the official announcement yesterday in Prospect Park in Brooklyn. Thank goodness he finally came clean. Until yesterday, no one in New York could figure out what he was up to.
 Alan G. Hevesi, the city comptroller, made his own official announcement a month ago. Yup, he's running for mayor, too, he said. Until then, no one had a clue about his ambitions, either. 
 They are wondrous events, these formal announcements by political candidates: grand orchestrations that allow the obvious to drape itself in the garb of the momentous, enabled by news organizations that make themselves eager partners in what essentially is their own kidnapping.
Before long, in case you had doubts about their mayoral ambitions, similar statements may be expected from Peter F. Vallone, the City Council speaker, and Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx borough president. Maybe George N. Spitz, a fifth Democrat in the race, will make a formal announcement, too. Or maybe he won't. It seemed wise to mention him if only because when Mr. Spitz's name is omitted, he is given to calling in protest. Life is short enough.
Then there is Michael Bloomberg, the gazillionaire with a fondness for slapping his name on tote bags and pocket radios. He is officially not running. Or is it more accurate to say he is not officially running? It gets so confusing. Better put him down as exploring. When you are worth more than the gross domestic product of some small countries, you have license to explore whatever you want.
Mr. Bloomberg, a Democrat who became a Republican because it was the expedient thing to do, made a small splash the other day when he told Newsweek that, if elected mayor, he would take only a dollar a year in salary. Apparently the message is that there is a communal interest in electing Croesus to high office.
Perhaps that is so. By installing Mr. Bloomberg, we will be able to save $194,999 that would otherwise be doled out to one of the other guys. Why, that is enough money to keep New York's municipal government operating for all of two and a half minutes.
Say what you will about our politicians, you must admit they are an indefatigable breed. The mayoral election is still far off, more than six months away, and yet we are already hearing the first rumblings of the next election for governor, in November 2002.
THINK about it -- a year and a half of this form of enlightenment. But then, so many burning questions must be answered that we probably need all the time we can get.
Will Gov. George E. Pataki run again, or does he simply get his kicks visiting bombing targets in Puerto Rico? Will H. Carl McCall, the state comptroller, reveal what the H stands for? Will Mario M. -- oops, that was supposed to be Andrew M. -- Cuomo prevail? Sorry about that. A natural error.
While Hillary Rodham Clinton cannot be blamed entirely for the extreme length of New York's political campaigns, she did not help matters with a race for senator that, after a while, seemed as if it had been dragging on since the Truman administration.
The political season seems never-ending, not unlike the professional basketball season. One saving grace with the politicians is that they at least spare us anti-Semitic musings of the sort recently offered by the eminent theologian Charlie Ward, who doubles as a player for the New York Knicks.
And to be fair, manufactured events like Mr. Green's day in the park do serve a purpose. They give the candidate an opportunity to establish a unifying theme for his campaign and to send supporters off to battle, all in the presence of more cameras than he is likely to see until election night.
Four-word messages seem to be in this year. Mr. Hevesi's was "most experienced, best qualified." Mr. Green's banner yesterday said, "educating children, protecting families."
You think maybe they fell under the spell of "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon"?
The candidates, all of them, certainly seem to be under the influence of City Hall's present steward, Rudolph W. Giuliani. One way or another, they have tended to define themselves in terms of the incumbent: Rudy Lite, the anti-Rudy, Rudy with a smile, Rudy without the rude. Mr. Green's call yesterday for "one future for one city" carried an echo of Mr. Giuliani's old campaign cry of "one city, one standard."
"Sounds like I'm dominating the campaign," the mayor said the other day. He got that right, for now anyway. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); GOVERNORS (75%); POLITICS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (64%); BOMBINGS (60%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) HABERMAN, CLYDE; GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R; HEVESI, ALAN G (COMPTROLLER); FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES); VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); PUERTO RICO (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001 



717 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
NBC adopts a package strategy intended to sell advertisers a spot on each of its divisions.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliot 

 BODY:
A CERTAIN television network is seeking to make more "Friends" with marketers and avoid becoming "The Weakest Link" among its peers by stepping up efforts to integrate and coordinate sales of commercial time and advertising space in packages that include sibling media properties.
 Those with a keen knowledge of the current prime-time schedule have guessed that the network in question is NBC, part of the General Electric Company, which is cross-selling its disparate offerings under the banner of NBC Connect. 
 The executives at NBC have recently signed agreements, valued at more than $20 million, with four marketers, covering spots on the TV network, promotional tie-ins, banner ads on Web sites and even a contest that enabled viewers to choose an ending for an episode of the sitcom "Just Shoot Me."
That phrase might someday become the cry of NBC executives if their efforts to package or bundle corporate properties do not stimulate enough growth in ad revenue to compensate for the decline caused by the faltering national economy. It will be interesting to watch next month -- as NBC and the other broadcast networks begin their advance sale of commercial time for the 2001-02 TV season in the upfront market -- whether time and space in other media, particularly the Internet, will be negotiated to complement television schedules. 
The NBC Connect deals are being made with the Nestle Carnation unit of Nestle, the Paramount Pictures unit of Viacom, the delicatessen chain Schlotzsky's Inc. and the Target chain of discount stores. They are indicative of the increasing interest among the media conglomerates in persuading large marketers to focus their purchases of space and time on multiple properties that are tied together.
Other behemoths pursuing that goal include AOL Time Warner, Clear Channel Communications, the Walt Disney Company, the News Corporation and Viacom. That's intensifying with the slowdown in ad spending as the giant media try to sell those packages by playing up their appeal from the standpoints of efficiency and effectiveness at a time when advertising dollars are growing scarcer.
"More advertisers and agencies are talking about one-stop shopping," said Keith Turner, president for sales and marketing at the NBC-TV Network unit of NBC in New York. "We're trying to sell across a number of platforms instead of talking to different people about network, cable, Internet."
The packaging strategy works, he added, "only if it makes sense and there's a fit" among the disparate elements, otherwise "if we're trying to force inventory on someone who doesn't need it, we'll lose ground."
That perspective was echoed by the marketers as well.
"It has to be a win-win for everybody," said Arthur Cohen, president for worldwide marketing at Paramount in Los Angeles. "It's not more complicated than that."
Paramount is buying what Mr. Cohen described as "an explosive combination of assets" through NBC Connect, centered on the network's coverage of the National Basketball Association playoffs. The intent is to build interest among younger men in "Tomb Raider," the action film starring Angelina Jolie that Paramount will release nationally on June 15.
"My job is to galvanize the country for a weekend," Mr. Cohen said. "The concentration of media tends to tell the moviegoer 'This is important, pay attention.' "
In addition to commercials during the playoffs and in other NBC prime-time and late-night programs, there will be a sweepstakes on the league's Web site (www.nba.com) and even spots running on video screens in the stadiums and arenas from which NBC will broadcast its coverage.
"Sometimes, the announcers get so excited, they start to talk about it," Mr. Cohen said, laughing. "Nobody can tell them to do it."
Generating talk was the idea behind the Schlotzsky's deal, which involved sending viewers of "Just Shoot Me" to a Web site where they could pick one of three endings for an episode that ran on March 29.
"We will do this again," said Karl Martin, senior vice president for marketing strategies at Schlotzsky's in Austin, Tex., because "we don't want to run just a schedule" of only TV commercials.
"Everybody knows how difficult it is to reach your target market today," he added. "If you don't explore these relationships and look at other marketing opportunities, e-commerce opportunities, you aren't doing your job."
The Nestle Carnation integrated package, centered on "Passions," an NBC daytime soap opera, involved a sweepstakes for expectant mothers on a Web site to promote the company's Good Start Baby Formula brand. The Target deal calls for the Club Wedd wedding registry at Target to sponsor " 'Today' Throws a Wedding" on the morning show "Today," with a tie-in to the Web site of the MSNBC cable TV network owned by NBC and Microsoft.
Talk about Target marketing.
To fill in the missing parts of the packages in realms like print, where NBC and General Electric have no holdings, NBC Connect "is using outside partners to embellish our offerings," said Ed O'Connell, vice president for marketing at the NBC-TV Network. For instance, there are strategic alliances with InStyle and People magazines, part of the Time Inc. unit of AOL Time Warner, for programs on NBC and MSNBC.
"Marketers realize they need to hit consumers on multiple platforms," said Marianne Gambelli, executive vice president for sales at the NBC-TV Network.
One platform they will not need to hit is the NBC Internet portal known as NBCi (www.nbci.com), which will be shut down as NBC scales back its ambitious cyberspace plans in the face of the drastic cutback in online advertising. The NBC Connect deals that had offered NBCi as an element will be reconfigured, Mr. O'Donnell said, to offer the Web site run by NBC Entertainment (www.nbc.com).
That's logical. After all, when people hear "i," they think of CBS.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 26, 2001

 CORRECTION:
The Advertising column in Business Day yesterday, about efforts by NBC to package sales of commercial time and advertising space across different media properties, gave an incorrect surname at one point for the vice president for marketing at NBC-TV. He is Ed O'Donnell, not O'Connell.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (94%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (77%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); MERCHANDISE LICENSING (69%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (69%) TELEVISION; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (94%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (72%); SCHLOTZSKY'S INC (66%); WALT DISNEY CO (65%); AOL INC (65%); NEWS CORP (65%); CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); VIACOM INC (54%); NESTLE SA (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO; NESTLE AG; VIACOM INC; SCHLOTZSKY'S INC; TARGET STORES 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (72%); GEC (LSE) (72%); GE (SWX) (72%); GE (NYSE) (72%); DIS (NYSE) (65%); AOL (NYSE) (65%); NWS (NASDAQ) (65%); NWS (ASX) (65%); VIA (NASDAQ) (54%); NESN (SWX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (94%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (66%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (66%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (65%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (65%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (65%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (65%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (65%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (65%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (65%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (65%); NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (58%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (54%) SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001 



718 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S NEXT; 
Motion Sensors May Let Everyday Appliances Do More

BYLINE:  By IAN AUSTEN 

 BODY:
ACCELEROMETERS were once arcane devices used by engineers to measure stress and strain on moving aircraft or the G-forces faced by race car drivers. 
 The air bag changed all that. Now even minivans creeping through rush-hour traffic carry one or more accelerometers to detect unusually abrupt changes in motion (in this case, deceleration) and trigger the air bags' inflation. 
 Now, using technologies adapted from the microchip industry, it may soon be possible to make accelerometers so inexpensive that they will creep even further into everyday life. Imagine, for example, a washing machine that senses an imbalanced load, a palmtop computer whose screen the user can scroll simply by tilting it, or a device that will tell you whether a shipping company has really handled your fragile package with care. 
"We now have ways to very cheaply measure the motion of just about anything you want," said Dr. Michael Gaitan, the project leader for microelectromechanical systems, or MEMS, at the National Institute of Standards and Technology in Gaithersburg, Md. 
Even the most sophisticated accelerometers share much in common with what is perhaps the simplest version: a weighted string hanging from a protractor. Inside an accelerating car, the string will swing to the rear as the car speeds off, and it will swing forward when the brakes are applied. The protractor measures the angle through which the string moves as the car accelerates or slows down, and that angle is used to calculate the force of gravity, or G-force, on the driver and passengers. 
Since weighted strings have obvious shortcomings in real-life devices -- like airbag triggers -- sophisticated accelerometers measure the deflection of materials like piezoelectric crystals, which produce electricity when they are bent. In an accelerometer, the crystals are positioned so that acceleration or deceleration puts pressure on them, causing them to bend. 
Greater acceleration or deceleration increases the G-force and causes the crystal to produce more electricity. Microprocessors amplify the electricity and measure it to calculate the G-force. 
Although piezoelectric accelerometers are highly accurate and reliable, they are not for "around the house" use. One installed in a washing machine, for example, could cost more than the washing machine itself. To create low-cost accelerometers for airbags and other uses, Analog Devices, a company based in Norwood, Mass., that makes about 700,000 accelerometers a week, turned to the same photo-etching technology used to create microchips. The company builds up a chip by etching layer after layer of silicon. The result is an extremely small variation of the string and weight. 
At the heart of this tiny accelerometer chip is a microscopic weight of about 0.07 micrograms suspended on springs that are even smaller. The weight has several tiny projections that carry a small electrical charge. Two fixed sensor plates sitting on the base of the chip measure changes in the electrical field as acceleration shifts the spring-loaded weight. Circuits in the chips either translate the result into a G-force or send a command to, say, activate an air bag. 
Christophe Lemaire, an engineer and the product marketing manager for the division of Analog Devices that makes accelerometers, said that the devices cannot be produced as inexpensively as less exotic chips because there are many, many more steps involved in fabrication. 
The company's accelerometers sell in bulk for about $4 each. That is no problem for the makers of airbag systems -- who are by far the biggest purchasers -- and far cheaper than a piezoelectric crystal device. But Mr. Lemaire said that the cost is still about twice what home appliance makers are willing to pay to create washing machines that can sense when their loads are off balance and adjust their spin cycles. With new materials and production techniques, Mr. Lemaire said, his company will be able to reduce prices. 
But in the quest for cheaper accelerometers, Dr. Gaitan's lab at the standards institute is taking a different approach, one developed more by accident than by forethought. His lab develops miniature machines based on electronic technologies. The Navy had financed efforts by Dr. Gaitan's group to develop inexpensive, hand-held microwave detectors that could be used for setting up communications equipment. What it ultimately created, using standard chip-making technology, was a tiny heater that rapidly changed temperature when hit by microwaves. 
There was some concern, however, that because heat rises, readings might be affected by how the measuring device was held. So Dr. Gaitan's group built equipment to study the microscopic convection fields surrounding the heater. 
The group found that moving the chip altered convection patterns, although it had no effect on the accuracy of the microwave readings. But Dr. Gaitan said it was apparent that shifting a heated object might be a way to measure motion. 
"Imagine you have a candle," Dr. Gaitan said. "The flame is always pointing upwards because heat rises. Even if you tilt the candle, the flame keeps pointing upwards." But, he said, the side toward which the candle is tilted will be hotter than the other side. 
In the chip created by Dr. Gaitan's group, the small amount of heat generated by the microheater is used by temperature sensors to track tilting motion. 
It is far easier, Dr. Gaitan said, to make a chip with a microheater than one with a microscopic weight. The result, he said, could be accelerometers that are inexpensive enough to be placed inside boxes to measure the abuse a parcel receives during shipment, although, Dr. Gaitan said, "you might not want to know the results." 
The ultimate consumer use for low-cost accelerometers may be what Mr. Lemaire calls gesture recognition or gesture-based control. Nintendo uses accelerometers from Mr. Lemaire's company in a GameBoy cartridge. The device allows users to manipulate an on-screen character simply by tilting the hand-held GameBoy device. 
Web-connected cell phones and digital organizers, Mr. Lemaire said, could compensate for their tiny displays by using accelerometers to allow users to scroll up and down and from side to side on Web pages by simply tilting their gadgets. 
That said, accelerometers may not be such good news for workers. A cell phone system developed by Hitachi that combines accelerometers and Global Positioning System data can allow employers to track not only where workers are but how fast they are -- or are not -- moving.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mary Ann Smith) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); ENGINEERING (90%); MOTION DETECTORS (90%); MEMS TECHNOLOGY (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); AUTO RACING (78%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (78%); MICROPROCESSORS (76%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (70%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (55%) ACCELEROMETERS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: ANALOG DEVICES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS & TECHNOLOGY (55%) ANALOG DEVICES INC 

TICKER: ADI (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (51%)

PERSON: AUSTEN, IAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



719 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
Mother Knows Worst: Apron Strings That Bind and Strangle

BYLINE:  By JANET MASLIN 

 BODY:
SON OF A GRIFTER
The Twisted Tale of Sante and Kenny Kimes, the Most Notorious Con Artists in America. A Memoir by the Other Son
By Kent Walker with Mark Schone
Illustrated. 405 pages. William Morrow. $25.
 Kent Walker says he was interrogated by two detectives, part of a joint task force representing the F.B.I., the Los Angeles Police Department, the New York Police Department and other agencies that had cleverly tracked him down through telephone records. He had been phoned a lot by the notorious mother-and-son con team Sante and Kenny Kimes, who had just been arrested on charges of murdering a wealthy widow named Irene Silverman, and the authorities wanted to know why. 
 Mr. Walker, whose link to the case was already well known to the press, then explained the obvious: Sante Kimes had been calling him because she is his mother. Kenny Kimes is his younger half-brother. And as he now sets forth in a colorful guide to Kimes family values, it wasn't easy growing up in houses that had a habit of burning down (Mom had a way with arson), or watching "Davy Crockett" while Mom winged Dad with a butcher knife. It was hard to live with siblings, like a third brother, Kerian, who did not happen to exist, or to know what to make of birthdays when Mom's big gift for little Kenny was a stolen pony.
"Son of a Grifter," brightly ghostwritten by Mark Schone as a fluent first-person account of Mr. Walker's weird formative years, is not an effort to soft-pedal this family's misdeeds. It's a little late for that. Besides, Ms. Kimes's earlier conviction on charges of enslaving her maids pretty much rules out the prospect of reader sympathy. Instead, Mr. Walker explains why the crime against Mrs. Silverman, which takes up only a small part of the book, was so fully in keeping with his mother's behavior that he was sadly unsurprised to hear about it. She had, as the book explains in wild detail, been scheming like this her whole life.
Sante, who was plain Sandy Chambers growing up and later claimed so many affected spellings and pronunciations of her first name that Mr. Walker has no idea what his family ancestry may be (East Indian? American Indian?), took early to crime. Her elder son was visiting her behind bars before he was in kindergarten (credit card fraud). And he watched her try to shoot his father in the stomach when he was 7. Not surprisingly, his father opted for a less eventful life elsewhere and little Kent was soon pressed into service mixing screwdrivers for his mother's dates. Sante lured these prospects by trying to look like Elizabeth Taylor, and once gave a photo of the star to her family, autographing it "Mom."
Under Sante's tutelage, Mr. Walker learned one way to acquire a new car: take it for a test drive, then tell the salesman, "Why don't you pop inside and get the paperwork, while I practice parking?" He watched his mother, caught shoplifting by a store manager, simply turn around and hit her son in the mouth, then accuse the manager of having slugged the boy. And he watched her send him into a house to retrieve a manila folder, cautioning him to move quickly. Why? Because as Sante well knew, the place was about to burst into flames.
Amazingly, Mr. Walker's family is good for a whole book's worth of such stories, especially after Sante married Ken Kimes, a wealthy real estate developer, and dragged him into her plans. It was under Mr. Kimes's aegis that his wife began enslaving household help, first driving down to Mexico to load young women into the trunk of her Cadillac and later recruiting servants from homeless shelters.
Why? Apparently, according to a memo printed here, because "Mama likes starch on her ruffles" and "Kenny's shirts should be ironed like Papa's, perfectly." Mr. Walker thinks his mother would have made a good cult leader, and there is real evidence for that in her frightful dealings with underlings. And when he asked the lawyer Howard Weitzman, "Have you ever had a client as evil as my mother," Mr. Weitzman replied "Charles Manson." 
Some of Ms. Kimes's criminal escapades with her husband have the ring of black comedy, as when they went on a coat-stealing jag. Although plenty of witnesses saw her put her on her own fur coat over someone else's mink in a Washington Hotel lobby, Ms. Kimes managed to drag out the case, bring in fake witnesses and even step in front of a suspiciously slow-moving Fiat in efforts to avoid prosecution. 
In another attention-getting maneuver, the Kimeses got dressed for a party and crashed four of them on a single night in Washington, including one given by Vice President Gerald Ford and one given by the Belgian ambassador. When The Washington Post exposed them as frauds, Sante simply tried to hide the article from her husband until teenage Kent mentioned it ("You know, Mom, the real big one") as loudly as he could.
This book's overall effect is to keep the Kimeses' spree, in the annals of true crime stories, from rising above the grifting in Mr. Walker's title. The relentlessness and pettiness described here kept Mr. Walker's mother a small-time crook, despite her phenomenal energy. And they turned his spoiled younger brother ("Kenny, though unemployable, was an expert by inclination") into her pliant stooge. Day by day, in a family in which Kent, as a vacuum cleaner salesman, sounds like the best-adjusted individual by far -- well, it is his book -- it just took little lies to make the world go round. Like the time Sante described Kent as a straight-A student. "I stifled a gasp. The only A on my report card was in my last name." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); LITERATURE (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); FAMILY (75%); MURDER (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); ARSON (75%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (72%); ARRESTS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); CREDIT CARDS (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (58%)

PERSON: WALKER, KENT; SCHONE, MARK; MASLIN, JANET; KIMES, KENNETH; KIMES, SANTE; SILVERMAN, IRENE 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: SON OF A GRIFTER (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



720 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Furniture Fair Looks for Comforting Economic Cushions 

BYLINE:  By PHILIP NOBEL 

DATELINE: HIGH POINT, N.C. 

 BODY:
ON April 18, when the Federal Reserve announced its surprise rate cut and Wall Street soared on cue, few places were as joyful as the wicker- and upholstery-lined streets of this one-note Piedmont town.
 The news came on the eve of the semiannual International Home Furnishings Market here, just as 80,000 wholesale buyers and sales representatives began jostling through 10 million square feet of furniture and accessories showrooms, signing the deals that will determine which love seats, wall units and dinette sets will land in stores this fall. 
 Elsa Klensch, the fashion commentator, was flown in to rally the news media on that first, optimistic day. "A stylish home gives comfort to life," she said. "Even as the Dow and the Nasdaq rise, and plunge, and rise again." 
For the furnishings industry, whose health depends on new home starts and sales and big empty rooms to fill, lower interest rates brought a dose of optimism. But after a long, lean year, with stores steeling themselves for frugality and many of the 2,700 exhibitors trimming their lines, could the furniture companies now look forward to a market bounce of their own? 
Amid a swirl of contradictory indications, economic and stylistic, the spring market has been a study in stasis: wait and see, look and learn, proceed with caution. In short, don't look for big surprises at the mall.
While debate continues over whether the downturn is an aberration or an abyss, the industry is in the third quarter of a bona fide recession. Jerry Epperson, a leading industry analyst, said December was one of the worst months ever recorded for furniture sales; there was some relief in January; February was slow; and last month sales were "as bad as December."
Other ominous news overshadowed chipper displays of deck chairs and roaming costumed pitchmen. A week earlier, Heilig-Myers, the furniture chain, announced that it was closing 375 stores. Add to this the shadow over relations with China, where many furniture companies have invested heavily in factories, and a possible leather shortage because of the foot-and-mouth outbreak, and it is easy to see why many at High Point allowed hopes to rise with the Greenspan-induced market blip.
Still, Mr. Epperson was looking to more unorthodox forms of economic stimulus. "If you're not married, please don't get married -- two separate homes are much more important to us," he said at a well-attended presentation in High Point. "And if you are married, please consider getting a divorce."
Throughout the High Point market, which closes today, economic jitters translated into uninspired design. Thomasville buttressed its successful Ernest Hemingway collection with only three new pieces, including a bar stool modeled after the fighting chair on Hemingway's fishing boat, and a version of an existing glass-topped side table. The new table has a brass swordfish in its base, replacing a rainbow trout.
Many companies came to High Point with old furniture dressed in bright new clothes. Hickory Chair freshened up some of its older upholstery with Shades of Hickory Chair, a palette that mixes deep colors and metallic threads with a shot of iridescence.
Even the John Widdicomb Company, which often showcases boldface talent, throttled back with the Widdicomb Studio collection, five new pieces inspired by 18th-century English models. But the designer and High Point impresario Larry Laslo enlivened the Widdicomb showroom by balancing a salon painted Hermes-orange with an elegant black and white living room inspired by the 1930's designs of Gio Ponti.
Mr. Laslo was also on hand to dispel concern about the economy. "I'm not buying into this recession nonsense," he said. "We create the fear, and it's hard to be creative when you're afraid. Next thing you know they'll be asking me to do beige." 
Instead, Widdicomb will be asking Mr. Laslo to continue experimenting with 20th-century styles, possibly even catching up to the present. Robert Dillon, president of Widdicomb, said the living room represented "a bridge to where we're going" -- a place, presumably, with less chinoiserie. 
Baker Furniture crossed that same bridge with a clean but sumptuous collection by William Sofield. Even before the market opened, his designs, which marry dark woods and exotic surface treatments with a deft handling of spare, prismatic details -- call it High Chelsea Moderne -- were pegged buzz-worthy. It is a testament to the furniture's quality that it was still being talked up as the week bore on. 
A chestnut-painted bedroom (Mr. Sofield called it his glamour bachelor pad) had a copy of "The Gentleman's Companion" and a pack of Lucky Strikes on a five-leg, two-tier walnut side table. A dog collar worthy of a Great Dane lay coiled on a matching bench at the foot of the leather-lined bed. 
Among the few other wave makers were Ralph Lauren Home, which showed eclectic furnishings in unusual materials like leather-wrapped steel and shagreen (made from the skin of sting rays), and Century, whose elaborate but absurd Matilda Bay collection at last brought together two long-running trends: English country and island exotic. The result was heavy, distressed pieces inspired by the Australian outback. 
Despite the general state of paralysis, one segment of the industry -- motion furniture -- continued to ascend. Recliners were everywhere -- and not just at La-Z-Boy, where current models lack only an eject button and a parachute. Natuzzi introduced an elegant, somewhat retro modular sofa by Mario Bellini with adjustable headrests and rolling, attached spring-loaded ottomans.
American Leather introduced Style in Motion, a line of recliner sofas and sectionals for upscale consumers, and Mitchell Gold offered the Lazy Mitchell line, six recliners named for well-known sloths like Archie Bunker and Chandler Bing. They seem ideal for e-commerce castoffs, as they contemplate the new economy's future. 
Indeed, Mitchell Gold's strategy seems built around a shrewd "buy on the dips" approach. A poster in its showroom asked: "What does 2001 hold for the economy? Are the Clinton Good Times over?" It went on to exhort buyers to be brave: "We're all smart enough to ride the Nasdaq roller coaster."

GRAPHIC: Photos: AWAITING CUSTOMERS -- A salesman in wait-and-see posture at the international furniture show in High Point (far left). Natuzzi sofa and attached ottoman (top); Hemingway fish-fighting chair from Thomasville (left); Ralph Lauren shagreen-surfaced armoire (above). (Chris English) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE SHOWS (90%); FURNITURE STORES (89%); FURNITURE MFG (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RETAIL SALES (76%); SALES & SELLING (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); RECESSION (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); SALES FORCE (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); MARRIAGE (64%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (60%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (50%) FURNITURE; INTERNATIONAL HOME FURNISHINGS MARKET (HIGH POINT, NC); TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS 

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (56%) NOBEL, PHILIP 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



721 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
At colleges, as elsewhere, employers' prosperity lifts workers' expectations.

BYLINE:  By Alan B. Krueger; Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim Professor of Economics and Public Affairs at Princeton University and editor of The Journal of Economic Perspectives. E-mail: akrueger@princeton.edu

 BODY:
WHO says student activism on campus is dead? Students at Princeton, Harvard, Brown and other schools have staged protests this spring to rally support for better treatment of workers. But in contrast to years past, the workers they have in mind are not in South Africa or third-world sweatshops -- they are right on campus.
 At most Ivy League campuses, organized groups of students have demanded better treatment of the workers who prepare their meals, tend their grounds and clean their dorms and classrooms. Their demands point to the importance of morale, fairness and profit-sharing -- in addition to market forces -- in setting wages. 
 When Lawrence H. Summers was named president of Harvard at a ceremony in Loeb House, for example, the Harvard Progressive Student Labor Movement held a protest outside, chanting, "Hey, hey, ho, ho, plutocracy has got to go." For the last week, Harvard students have staged a sit-in at Massachusetts Hall. Their demands? That Harvard pay its lowest-wage workers more than poverty-level wages and then index pay to inflation. "Workers can't eat prestige," they say.
The issues vary across colleges. At Harvard and Cornell, minimum pay is the main issue; at Princeton, cost-of-living adjustments, casual work and contracting out; at Brown, Columbia and Yale, a "living wage" and collective bargaining.
Still, there is a common thread. "The thing that has gotten students engaged," said Nicholas Guyatt, a student leader at Princeton, "is the massively engorged endowments." My informal survey of 27 private colleges is consistent with this view: student protests on behalf of workers are almost twice as likely at schools with endowments exceeding $500,000 per student than at schools with lesser endowments, although other factors may contribute.
As far as I can tell, this movement has sprung more or less spontaneously from students across elite colleges, with little or no instigation from unions. Except at Yale and Columbia, students are not trying to unionize workers or themselves. Instead, they are seeking what they consider a more equitable division of the riches universities amassed in recent years. "This is also an issue of lack of union power," said Richard Freeman, a Harvard economist. "Students are acting as the voice of people who should have their own voice through unions."
Are the students simply naive? Do they not realize that better pay would mean higher tuition or reduced services? Perhaps, but they recognize that the added costs of their demands are likely to be quite small relative to operating budgets. Regardless of who will bear the additional costs, many students question the ethics of universities raising room and board charges while the inflation-adjusted income of the workers involved is declining, especially in a period of record endowment growth.
Economists fall into two camps when it comes to worker pay. One believes that over the course of a worker's career, total compensation must equal the value of that worker's contribution to output. If one worker is paid more than another, then she must contribute more to the bottom line. Thus, Milton Friedman declared, "To each according to what he and the instruments he owns produces."
The other camp believes that pay does not exactly mirror productivity. In fact, determining a worker's unique contribution to output is often impossible. Managers also have a desire to share an organization's "rents," or excess profits, with workers. This is why large, profitable companies tend to pay higher salaries to seemingly identical workers than do those with less ability to pay. In addition, worker effort, retention and recruitment are enhanced if workers are treated better, so employers have an incentive to pay more than the bare minimum needed to increase productivity. These enhancements, known as efficiency wage effects, cut the cost of rent sharing.
Ironically, as an academic economist Mr. Summers clearly identified with the second camp. In an article we wrote together, for example, he emphasized: "Whether firms share rents because of managers' desire to help workers or because of the threat that workers will withhold effort is an open question. In all likelihood both elements are present in most settings."
The evidence suggests there is a "range of indeterminacy" in wages. And the range is large. Salary surveys routinely find that wages vary 20 percent or more in the same occupation and geographic area. Indeed, if there were a uniquely determined market wage, it would not be necessary to conduct a salary survey; one comparison wage would do.
Different companies choose to set pay at different parts of the range, depending on their financial health, willingness to make do with high turnover and vacancies, and desire for a loyal, self-motivated work force. Traditionally, universities "try at best to be in the middle of the pack" when it comes to staff pay, said Arnold Weber, an economist and former president of Northwestern.
Universities are now in an awkward position. It will be hard for them to keep paying wages toward the bottom of the range if workers, seeing a run-up in endowments, raise their expectations of what constitutes a fair wage.
Ability to pay already enters into the equation at universities. The pay of university presidents, for example, is higher at schools with larger endowments, according to a new study by Ronald Ehrenberg, John Cheslock and Julia Epifantseva of Cornell. The average pay of presidents at research universities increased 35 percent from 1993 to 1998, when endowments soared. The researchers find, however, that presidents' pay increases are unrelated to their job performance, at least as measured by improvement in a university's academic standing.
This much is clear: when an employer's ability to pay increases, workers and their allies expect pay to increase as well. Failure to anticipate and address this reaction could result in unionization, low morale, poor productivity and public relations problems.
Richard Freeman also sees a warning for the Bush administration in all this. Only recently did lower-paid workers start to experience wage gains from the remarkable prosperity of the 1990's, and these gains may be cut short by the economic slowdown. "If we go into deep recession, there will be much more protest than in previous recent downturns," he predicted.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Students demonstrated for better conditions for blue-collar workers at Harvard over the weekend. About 40 students have occupied Massachusetts Hall since last week. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); LIVING WAGE (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); SWEATSHOPS (77%); GARMENT WORKERS (77%); COST OF LIVING (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); ETHICS (71%); BUDGETS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (69%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%) IVY LEAGUE 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%) KRUEGER, ALAN BENNETT (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



722 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS; 
Treasury Prices Post Decline As Equities Draw Investors

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Treasury bond prices fell yesterday as a solid rebound in equity markets drew investors away from government debt and as dealers shed holdings to make room for new government and agency debt.
 By contrast, stocks rose yesterday on positive economic data. The April rally in stocks has pulled money out of Treasuries, which had been a haven for investors during several months of stock market turmoil. 
 "Some days we exist as the opposite of the stock market," said Gib Clark, head trader at Zions First National Bank Capital Markets.
A large amount of new debt issuance by agencies, an auction of new two-year notes and preparations for an upcoming announcement of future supply in intermediate Treasuries also hurt bonds as investors made room for the new supply.
Traders said some investors also cashed in on gains in short-term notes that had materialized since the Federal Reserve shocked financial markets last week with an unexpected half-percentage-point rate cut, its fourth reduction this year. 
Investors have been selling Treasuries to shift money into higher-yielding agency and corporate paper, analysts said.
The Federal Home Loan Bank sold another $2 billion of a recent issue of two-year global notes, while Federal Farm Credit sold $1 billion of new paper. Fannie Mae sold $5.5 billion in 5-year notes and 30-year bonds on Tuesday and had heavy demand for the issue.
The 10-year Treasury note declined 11/32 , to a price of 98 1/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.26 percent from 5.21 percent on Tuesday. The 30-year Treasury bond slid 5/32 , to 94 12/32 . Its yield rose to 5.77 percent from 5.76 on Tuesday.
Earlier, the Treasury said that tomorrow it would buy back up to $2.0 billion of 30-year debt that matures February 2019 to February 2023.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of two-year notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

High Price: 99.754
High Yield: 4.124%
Low Yield: 4.050%
Median Yield: 4.100%
Accepted at low price: 50%
Total applied for: $30,200,534
Accepted: $13,335,524
Noncompetitive: $1,043,091
Interest set at: 4

The two-year notes mature April 30, 2003.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since December 2000. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) Graph: "2-Year Treasury Notes" shows high yields rate of 2-year treasury notes in percent from 1999 to 2001. (Source: Treasury Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY SECURITIES (94%); BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (70%); MORTGAGE BANKING (70%) FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (67%); ZIONS FIRST NATIONAL BANK (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (67%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (67%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



723 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO GAINS. The euro rose after a report showed orders for durable goods, excluding transportation gear, fell in March, indicating growth may continue to slide. In New York, the euro settled at 89.62 cents, up from 89.43 cents.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Euro to the dollar, since Nov. 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); DURABLE GOODS (87%); FACTORY ORDERS (87%) CURRENCY 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



724 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Home Sales Surge Despite Slowing Economy 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25 

 BODY:
Home sales unexpectedly surged in March, data released today showed, indicating that real estate and construction are showing resilience as the rest of the economy slows.
 Sales of new homes rose 4.2 percent, to a record annual rate of 1.02 million from 980,000 in February, the Commerce Department said. A separate industry report showed sales of previously owned homes rose in March to the second-highest level on record. 
 Another report showed factory orders for durable goods excluding transportation equipment fell to the lowest level since June 1999.
A jobless rate of 4.3 percent, close to a 30-year low, and mortgage rates that have fallen almost two percentage points since last May are bolstering home sales.
Sales of previously owned homes rose 4.8 percent in March, to an annual pace of 5.44 million units from 5.19 million a month earlier, the National Association of Realtors said. The March sales rate was second only to the record 5.45 million in June 1999. Sales increased in all regions except the Midwest.
Home resales account for about 85 percent of all houses sold, while new homes account for the rest. Sales of new homes averaged 989,667 for the first three months of this year. The record year was 1999, when 907,000 new homes were sold. New-home sales increased in all regions except the West.
Lower mortgage rates underpinned home sales last month. Thirty-year fixed mortgage rates averaged 6.95 percent in March, the lowest monthly average since 6.92 percent in April 1999, according to data from Freddie Mac, the big buyer of mortgages.
The median price of a new home was $164,900 in March, little changed from $165,000 in February. The supply of new homes for sale shrank in March to 3.6 months' worth -- the lowest since a 3.5 months' supply in November 1998 -- from 3.7 months in February.
The median price of a previously owned home rose 3.5 percent, to $143,500 last month -- the highest on record -- from $138,600 in February.
The Commerce Department said durable goods orders excluding transportation equipment fell 1.8 percent in March, to $154.5 billion, the lowest level in almost two years. All orders for big-ticket goods increased 3 percent after falling 0.3 percent in February and 7.3 percent in January.
Orders for nonmilitary capital goods, an indication of business investment in new equipment, fell 0.7 percent after falling 4.9 percent in February. That was the fifth decline in six months.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Prices of New Homes"Median price for new homes in thousands of dollars. Graph shows figures: Monthly ChangeMarch: -0.1%Feb: -2.8Jan: +5.4 (Source: Commerce Department) Chart: "Durable Goods OrdersManufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Graph shows: Monthly ChangeMarch: +3.0%Feb.: -0.3Jan.: -7.3 (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); EXISTING HOME SALES (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STATISTICS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%) HOUSING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SALES; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



725 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: In America; 
Championing Cities

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
As American cities continue to recover from their long period of decay and demoralization, a new group is hoping to accelerate the comeback.
 Crime is down in cities from coast to coast. Home ownership is increasing. School attendance is up. And some of the worst neighborhoods in America, havens of extreme violence and hopelessness, have been quietly transformed in recent years into viable and safe communities. 
 Paul Grogan, an urban expert and a vice president at Harvard, explored the forces underlying this fragile revival in a book he wrote with Tony Proscio, "Comeback Cities." 
Now Mr. Grogan has pulled together a group of mayors, corporate executives, university presidents and others who will try to build on the recent successes. The group, called CEOs for Cities, will be launched publicly in Washington next week. It's headed by Mr. Grogan, the founder and president, and a "leadership team" that includes, among others, Mayor Richard Daley of Chicago; the president of Columbia University, Dr. George Rupp; and the chief executive officer of Forest City Enterprises, Chuck Ratner.
CEOs for Cities will try to spread the word about the good things that are happening in urban America, and focus more attention on the important role that cities play as engines of economic growth for their regions and for the national economy. 
The decline of the nation's major industrial cities over the past half-century was so precipitous and so devastating it fostered the idea that they were, for the most part, useless -- unworthy of any significant investment. 
But that view is changing as cities continue to improve and their increasing economic significance becomes more widely recognized.
The fundamental importance of cities is emphasized in a report to be released by CEOs for Cities at its launching next Thursday. It says: "Cities are hubs for metropolitan areas. Cities disproportionately house assets on which their metropolitan economies particularly depend. These include intellectual and institutional assets, such as universities and hospitals; infrastructure assets, such as transportation and communications; social assets (tourism, entertainment, culture); and core service assets (financial, legal)."
A key member of the new organization is Mayor Thomas Menino of Boston, who said yesterday that he expects CEOs for Cities to fill the need for "a national organization that focuses on building the economic competitiveness of cities and that constantly draws on the broad perspectives of government and business and the universities."
He said it was essential to sustain this "new vitality" in the nation's cities and he thought that CEOs for Cities could help do that.
"I'm going to use it as a think tank for my city," he said. "We'll have the best minds in the country working with the mayors to come up with solutions to some of our problems."
Mr. Grogan hopes his group will have some influence on federal policies that affect urban areas. While much of the revitalization of the cities has been locally driven, nearly all local initiatives are affected to some degree by policies originating in Washington. For example, attacks on redlining and the virtual revolution in commercial lending practices sparked by the federal Community Reinvestment Act were crucial components of the remarkable surge in urban economic activity over the last decade.
Mr. Grogan and his colleagues are committed to the idea that vibrant cities are essential to the long-term health of the U.S., not just economically but socially and culturally as well. And they have said that the concentration of poverty in the cities, along with the related issues of racial isolation and social pathology, may well be the nation's number one problem. 
The cities have long been in need of effective new voices of leadership, and CEOs for Cities believes it can become one.
"I've been involved from the very beginning," said Columbia's Dr. Rupp. "Urban universities and cities are very closely connected. Our fates are tied to each other and we have to figure out the best way that we can move forward together. What I liked about CEOs for Cities was that it was looking at the upside. It didn't just talk about 50 years of decline and hopelessness." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); CITY LIFE (92%); CITIES (92%); CRIME RATES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%) URBAN AREAS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: FOREST CITY ENTERPRISES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%) CEOS FOR CITIES (ORGN) 

TICKER: FCEB (NYSE) (55%); FCEA (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (55%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (55%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (55%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (55%)

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



726 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: Developer Scrambles to Save World Trade Center Deal 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
In an 11th-hour attempt to resurrect his bid for control of the World Trade Center, a developer rushed back to the bargaining table yesterday evening, vowing to sign a $3.22 billion deal and to put down a hefty deposit for the 10.6 million-square-foot office complex.
 The developer, a group led by Larry A. Silverstein, had been negotiating with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey for the last 36 days over a 99-year lease for the 110-story towers and the Trade Center. 
 But in recent days, Port Authority officials became increasingly concerned about the group's financial viability, especially as Mr. Silverstein appeared to retreat on a number of issues, including reducing his $800 million down payment. The four Port Authority commissioners in charge of the sale decided yesterday to end negotiations, but relented when Mr. Silverstein asked for a final opportunity to complete a deal. 
According to top executives at the Port Authority, Mr. Silverstein must sign a contract and put down a $100 million deposit by this afternoon when the Port Authority board meets, or he is out.
"They're going down there this evening in an effort to close the deal," Howard J. Rubenstein, a spokesman for Mr. Silverstein, said late yesterday afternoon. "They'll take as long as it takes to get it done."
Mr. Silverstein's partners include GMAC; Westfield America Inc., a shopping center developer; and Lloyd Goldman, an investor. Mr. Silverstein has long expressed his desire to operate the World Trade Center, an office complex he considers to be "the prize of all prizes." But many real estate executives and Port Authority executives remain skeptical that the developer will be able to capture his prize.
The Trade Center is full and generating income of about $200 million a year, but if the present negotiations fail, it would be a major setback for plans to privatize the complex. In 1998, the two states hoped to get about $1.5 billion, but a rocketing real estate market ultimately drove the bidding over $3 billion.
Both the economy and the real estate market have cooled down significantly in recent weeks. The Port Authority could turn to another bidder, a joint venture of Boston Properties and Brookfield Financial Properties. The Port Authority has lost leverage, though.
The Silverstein group would be the second bidder to collapse within sight of the finish line. Last month, Vornado Realty Trust, which had offered $3.25 billion for a 99-year lease, failed to sign a contract after a 20-day negotiating period.
On March 21, the Port Authority opened talks with the second-place bidder, the Silverstein group. Negotiations appeared to be going well, so the Port Authority allowed its April 14 deadline to pass without comment. According to top Port Authority officials, Mr. Silverstein sought to reopen several important issues, including the size of his down payment. Some officials also questioned whether the Silverstein group had a large enough operations group to run the Trade Center properly. They said the developer also sought to get the Port Authority to pay for $200 million in improvements to the complex. 
That may have been a last-minute bargaining tactic, because Mr. Silverstein appeared to have relented yesterday afternoon. The closing scenario was reminiscent of what happened in the Vornado negotiations.
"I don't mean to sound naive," said Charles A. Gargano, vice chairman of the Port Authority, "but it's astonishing to me that they believe they can play a game of chicken with us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A $3.22 billion deal for the 10.6 million-square-foot World Trade Center has reached a critical stage. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (92%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (75%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); RETAILERS (68%); JOINT VENTURES (64%) WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%); WESTFIELD AMERICA INC (66%); VORNADO REALTY TRUST (61%); BROOKFIELD FINANCIAL PROPERTIES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY 

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (61%)

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V; SILVERSTEIN, LARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



727 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Little Change Forecast for Election Process 

BYLINE:  By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25 

 BODY:
Despite the outcry over last year's presidential election, the next national election will probably occur under virtually the same circumstances as the last, with the same unreliable voting systems and under the same dizzying hodgepodge of rules that vary from county to county across the nation.
 The reasons vary, from a lack of cash to partisan positioning and difficulties in interpreting the United States Supreme Court decision that finally ended the presidential contest. Those studying how to overhaul the system have found that it is exceedingly complex. 
 "There is no technical fix to the problem," said Thomas Mann, a scholar at the Brookings Institution. "There's no possibility of a uniform national ballot. There are contradictory findings on the accuracy of different voting equipment." 
And so far, there is no money. At a hearing on Capitol Hill, state elections officials today painted a bleak picture of the improvements they might be able to achieve by the midterm elections in 2002, particularly if Congress and the White House continued to sidestep the issue.
Katherine Harris, the Florida secretary of state, whom some voters blamed more than they blamed the voting machines for last year's debacle in her state, spoke for her fellow secretaries of state today when she challenged Congress to come up with cash for new machines.
"Currently in Florida, and I suspect many other states, we have the will but not the financial wherewithal," Ms. Harris said. "The problems affecting the American electoral system cannot be solved by local and state governments alone. And as much as we all appreciate words of encouragement, they will fail to make our system of elections fairer, freer, more accurate and more accessible."
J. Kenneth Blackwell, the Ohio secretary of state, said election reform was one of the first casualties of the economic downturn, which has undercut state budgets.
"While election reform continues to have widespread public support, the resources to implement these costly upgrades are few or nonexistent," Mr. Blackwell said. "Dollars for voting system upgrades, while desperately needed, are competing with funds for mental health services, road construction, welfare and Medicaid."
To be sure, states have clearly been eager to immunize themselves from the problems that afflicted Florida last year. Lawmakers have introduced more than 1,500 election reform bills in state legislatures this year. And just today, the Florida House passed measures that would ban voting machines that use punch cards and would enable counties to borrow money to buy optical scanners before the 2002 elections. The Senate will consider similar legislation this week.
Tim Storey, an elections specialist at the National Conference of State Legislatures, said 120 such bills had been passed in the 10 states where the legislatures had adjourned for the year.
Georgia has taken the lead for comprehensive action. Prodded by Cathy Cox, the secretary of state, Gov. Roy Barnes has signed legislation to place touch-screen voting systems, which work like automatic teller machines, in all precincts. The law calls for pilot projects of the systems this fall and then replacement of the punch-card systems used by about one-third of Georgia voters by the 2002 elections and installation of new machines in all precincts by 2004.
But Georgia, too, is waiting for money.
"The bill says, Do it -- subject to funding," Ms. Cox said. "Our State Legislature hasn't funded it because they are waiting to see how much money the feds will put up."
Maryland, too, has passed a bill requiring the state and counties to split the costs of a new system.
Most of the bills passed in other states are not likely to make big impressions on voters. Virginia, for example, has set standards for reviewing punch card ballots that are not accepted by a counting machine because chads are dangling. South Dakota has enacted a law to implement a statewide voter database that will allow more efficient administration on Election Day.
Researchers have reached conflicting conclusions on what technology is best. Even if they could agree on a machine with the lowest error rate, would voters easily adapt? Examinations of ballots in Florida show that some people failed to register their choices, whether from ignorance or hostility to the candidates or the system.
Elections officials are reluctant to formalize means to call voters' errors to their attention at the polling place, for fear of violating the privacy of the ballot.
Newspapers conducting recounts of the Florida vote seem to have only added to the confusion. Published accounts so far have found the ballots so confounding and the rules in Florida so patchwork that they have not been able to determine with certainty the number of votes won by George W. Bush or Al Gore.
Moreover, ideas that once seemed panaceas -- Internet voting, scrapping the Electoral College, even uniform poll-closing hours nationwide -- have been discredited. And those with a stake in the process -- political parties and officials from federal, state and county governments -- are lapsing into predictable squabbles over advantage and turf.
Looming over these nuts-and-bolts questions are important unknowns, like whether the Supreme Court ruling that ended the presidential election applies to future elections.
Trevor Potter, former chairman of the Federal Election Commission and an adviser to Senator John McCain's presidential campaign, considered the ruling and said: "The majority of the court said, essentially, 'This is a railroad ticket for this day, this train only, this has no precedential value.' Personally, I don't think they get away with that."
"Once you use the equal protection argument, which everyone thought was a reach, it's there," Mr. Potter added. "Does equal protection require some degree of standardization, and what is that degree? Is it statewide ballots? Is it only statewide recount systems? The lawsuits say no, it's the same type of machinery or access to low error rates. The question we're all walking around -- because we don't know the answer -- is, to what extent are the courts going to upset the apple cart by saying the way you've always done business is no longer constitutionally permissible?"
Citing the Supreme Court decision, the American Civil Liberties Union filed suit last week in federal court in California -- its fourth such suit in the nation since the election -- alleging that that state's multiple voting systems created discriminatory results and that its lack of legally binding standards for recounts aggravated the unconstitutional disparities.
Setting national or state standards for ballots and recounts might have seemed a logical response to the mess in Florida. But it is becoming increasingly clear that elections officials are resistant to giving up turf. And untangling the roles of federal, state and local officials is emerging as a central obstacle.
Sharon Priest, secretary of state in Arkansas and president of the National Association of Secretaries of State, said she could accept statewide standards but she rejected national standards.
"Frankly," Ms. Priest said, "we don't have to have the feds tell us everything that we have to do." 
She gave perhaps the gloomiest assessment on the future of election reform:
"Unless there's a real uprising on the part of people in this country who will call their congressmen and senators and say, 'Elections are important to us and democracy comes at a price, and we're willing to pay that price -- do something!' then I'm not sure, running into budgets now, that anything's going to get done."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Katherine Harris, the Florida secretary of state, at a House hearing yesterday on election improvements. (David Scull for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (94%); VOTERS & VOTING (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTION LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); MEDICAID (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); APPEALS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (63%); MENTAL HEALTH (50%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (50%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (50%); CONSTRUCTION (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (83%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%) SUPREME COURT (US) 

PERSON: AL GORE (58%) SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); GORE, AL 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



728 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Moving Tax Simplification Toward Front Burner 

BYLINE:  By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
While there is wide disagreement on whether, and how much, to cut taxes, there is wide agreement that the tax system must be simplified.
 The issue has received little attention in Congress this year, but this morning the Senate Finance Committee will hold a hearing on tax simplification for individuals. 
 Tax experts from various political and economic viewpoints said the task would be difficult. "We need tax simplification," said Nina E. Olson, the taxpayer advocate at the Internal Revenue Service. "But simplification will not be simple." 
These experts emphasized many of the same solutions: ease the rules defining family status or tax individuals instead of families, revise the alternative minimum tax so it again applies to the rich instead of the middle class, eliminate all but one of the rules that phase out tax breaks as income rises, and replace the complicated form used to report capital gains with a single line on tax returns.
The issue is complex because a complicated tax system is not without its benefits, said William G. Gale, a tax scholar at the Brookings Institution, a nonprofit research organization in Washington.
"In an ideal world we would have no pollution," he said, "but to do what we want to do, like drive cars, we have to tolerate some pollution. Tax complexity is like that; sometimes it lets you do things you want, but some is just a pure waste and we should focus on getting rid of complexity with no value."
The first place to address complexity is to try to get the tax system out of the business of deciding who is a family, said William A. Niskanen, chairman of the Cato Institute, a libertarian research group in Washington.
"We ought to move from taxing a family unit to taxing individuals," said Mr. Niskanen, who was a senior Reagan administration tax official. "If we do that we do not need special provisions on marriage penalties."
Ms. Olson said that whether one is married, single or head of a household, and who gets the tax credits and deductions for children after a marriage collapses, add unnecessary burdens on taxpayers and on the Internal Revenue Service.
Many tax experts say that the area most in need of reform is the alternative minimum tax, which no longer applies to the people it was designed for, wealthy individuals who make aggressive use of tax shelters and deductions to live tax free. Congress abolished most tax shelters for individuals in 1986, but it did not adjust the minimum tax for inflation so today it does not apply to those making more than $350,000 or so.
But it does apply to a small but growing segment of the middle and upper-middle classes as well as some single mothers making just $28,000.
Last year a million people paid the tax, Treasury Department specialists estimate. Under current law the tax will apply to 21 million taxpayers, nearly one in five, by 2010. That would grow to 36 million under President Bush's tax cut plan, according to an analysis by Congress's Joint Committee on Taxation, including about 80 percent of those making $80,000 to $200,000 annually. 
The alternative minimum tax limits deductions and, once they are taken away, adds the minimum tax.
Under Mr. Bush's plan families with more than four children, people who live in higher-tax states like New York and California, and people who spend more than 7.5 percent of their income on medical bills would be affected by the alternative minimum tax. But the alternative minimum tax does not apply to those who would get the biggest tax breaks under Mr. Bush's plan, the top 1 percent of taxpayers, who would receive in full the tax breaks he favors.
A variety of experts said that treating children as tax shelters, as the alternative minimum tax does, was unjustified. "I don't think anyone believes children are a tax shelter," said Charles Davenport, a Rutgers University law professor and editor in chief of Tax Notes, a weekly magazine. 
A White House spokesman, Ken Lisaius, said, "It is very clear a problem exists with the alternative minimum tax, and the president is very sympathetic about the problem, but he believes Congress should tackle first the priorities he has set" to reduce marriage penalties and marginal tax rates and repeal the estate tax.
"After that is done he will go back and take a look and see if other priorities remain," Mr. Lisaius said, noting that Mr. Bush would exempt his child tax credit, which would eventually reach $1,000 a child, from the alternative minimum tax at a cost of $60 billion over 10 years.
Congress has handed out tax breaks to parents, college students and the working poor, but each break has its own income limits and its own rules, which often conflict with other rules. A result is that many people are denied these breaks or cannot figure out how to get them or, if they do, join the dwindling number of taxpayers who are audited.
Mr. Niskanen and Mr. Gale said they would eliminate the rules that phase out these credits. If Congress wants to give a tax credit for a child it should do so without regard to whether the child's parents are rich or poor, Mr. Gale said.
The phasing out of personal exemptions and tax credits pushes people into higher tax brackets than the six official rates of 0, 15, 28, 31, 36 and 39.6 percent. Some middle-class taxpayers, however, pay 80 cents in taxes on their last dollar of income, according to a comprehensive study of these phase-out rules and marginal tax rates by Elliott Manning, a law professor in Coral Gables, Fla.
One phase-out rule is needed, both men said. That would be for the earned-income tax credit, which gives the working poor a tax break. "You have to phase it out because we don't want to subsidize everyone's income," Mr. Niskanen said.
Ms. Olson, the taxpayer advocate, said her years running a clinic for low-income taxpayers taught her that the earned-income tax credit is unnecessarily complex. The combination of low-income workers and an especially complex tax form contributes to a large rate of errors in applying for the credit.
An easy target for simplification, experts said, is capital gains taxes.
Anyone who sells a stock, bond, apartment building or other investment asset must complete a form known as a Schedule D. For years it was a simple exercise, but since 1997, even longtime tax preparers say, it has been numbingly complex.
Schedule D will become more complex next year because Congress decided that nine different tax rates for capital gains were not enough and added two. Now the tax rate on a profitable investment may be 0, 8, 10, 15, 18, 20, 25, 28, 31, 36 or 39.6 percent.
Mr. Gale said he would just lump all long-term gains and tax a percentage of them. "You just put down your gains and multiply by something between the zero percent Jack Kemp would favor or the 100 percent I favor, so Congress picks, say, 50 percent," he said. "If your tax rate on your pay is 39.6 percent then you would pay that on half your capital gains and if your tax rate is 15 percent you would pay half of that."
Ms. Olson said as taxpayer advocate she had her own simplification plan for her report to Congress later this year. "Instead of proposing 38 changes we are going to simplify the list and have maybe five of them."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Raising Taxes"Under current tax law, the number of people who will be subject to the alternative minimum tax is projected to rise steeply over the next decade. But, under President Bush's tax plan, the rise would be even steeper. Graph shows figures for the Bush plan and the current law from 1990-2010 (in millions of taxpayers). *1999 and 2000 figures are estimated(Sources: Treasury Department; Joint Committee on Taxation)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (97%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX REFORM (90%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); FAMILY (89%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (68%); US LIBERTARIAN PARTY (66%); AFFLUENT MARKET (61%) TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%)

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



729 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Daimler Reports a Loss, Dragged Down by Chrysler
DaimlerChrysler said it had an operating loss of $3.3 billion in the first quarter, virtually all of that stemming from problems at Chrysler and at the truck-making subsidiary Freightliner.
 Excluding $2.7 billion in one-time charges, the corporation as a whole lost 610 million euros, or about $545.6 million. That was a smaller loss than Daimler had forecast in February. Still, shares of DaimlerChrysler fell 12 cents, to $49.79. Page C4. 

Price Controls on California Power
Federal regulators reversed themselves and decided to impose broad price controls on electricity sales in California, contradicting the Bush administration's opposition to federal intervention in the state's energy market. A14.

Busiest Airports Are Oversubscribed
At eight of the busiest airports, airlines have scheduled substantially more flights than runways can handle in bad weather, and at four of them, more than they can handle even in perfect weather, a study found. A16.

Healthy Rise in March Home Sales
Sales of new homes rose 4.2 percent in March, to a record annual rate of 1.02 million from 980,000 in February. A separate report showed sales of previously owned homes rose to the second-highest level on record in March. C4.

A Rebound for Stocks After Skid
Stocks gained for the first time in four days. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 19.28 points, or 1.6 percent, to 1,228.75. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 170.86 points, or 1.6 percent, to 10,625.20. The Nasdaq composite index advanced 43.19 points, or 2.1 percent, to 2,059.80. C9.

VoiceStream Purchase Is Approved
Regulators approved Deutsche Telekom's $34 billion purchase of VoiceStream Wireless, rejecting objections of lawmakers. C10.

Recovery Plans Set for SAirGroup
The management of the struggling SAirGroup laid out the details of plans to restore its financial health. The effort involves undoing major parts of the failed expansion strategy that plunged the company into losses and cost the previous chief executive his job. The new chief, Mario Corti, delivered the news at the annual meeting. World Business, Section W.

Guilty Pleas in Stock Fraud Case
Seven defendants in a stock fraud case pleaded guilty to attempted enterprise corruption and face prison terms of one to six years. C4.

WPP in Custom Publishing Venture
WPP Group is teaming up with the magazine publisher Forbes to form a joint venture in the growing field known as custom publishing. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C7.

Double-Digit Gains for Drug Makers
American Home Products, Bristol-Myers Squibb and Pharmacia reported double-digit increases in operating profits. C7.

New Generation of College Protests
At most Ivy League campuses, organized students have demanded better treatment of the workers who prepare their meals, tend their grounds and clean their dorms and classrooms. They are seeking a more equitable division of the riches universities have amassed. Alan B. Krueger: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,625.20 up 170.86Nasdaq composite -- 2,059.80 up 43.1910-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.26% up 0.05The euro -- $0.8962 up 0.0019The dollar -- 122.22 yen up 0.05 Graph shows DaimlerChrysler share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PUBLISHING (84%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (84%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); WEATHER (76%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); APPROVALS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (75%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (74%); AIRLINES (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (64%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (62%); EXECUTIVES (62%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (60%); JOINT VENTURES (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); WPP PLC (62%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (53%); PFIZER INC (52%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (50%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (50%); PHARMACIA CORP (50%)

TICKER: WPPGY (NASDAQ) (62%); WPP (LSE) (62%); DTE (FRA) (53%); DTE (BIT) (53%); PFZ (LSE) (52%); PFEB (BRU) (52%); PFE (NYSE) (52%); BMY (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (62%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (62%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (62%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (62%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (62%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (62%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (52%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (52%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (50%); NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2824 MANMADE ORGANIC FIBERS, EXCEPT CELLULOSIC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



730 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: DaimlerChrysler Posts Big Quarterly Loss 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, April 25 

 BODY:
DaimlerChrysler said today that it lost another $1.2 billion at Chrysler in the first quarter, not including nearly $3 billion in revamping charges, but its results were slightly better than both the company and most analysts had predicted.
 Over all, the German-American automobile company said it had an operating loss of $3.3 billion, virtually all of that stemming from problems at Chrysler and at the American truck-making subsidiary, Freightliner. 
 Excluding $2.7 billion in one-time charges, the corporation as a whole lost 610 million euros, or about $545.6 million. That was a smaller loss than Daimler had forecast in February, when it predicted a loss, excluding the charges, of 800 million euros to 1 billion euros. 
Chrysler remained the main source of heartburn. But the company was also hit by a plunge in truck sales at Freightliner, which like Chrysler has been hit by an acute slump in the American market.
Truck and bus sales in North America sank nearly 50 percent, compared with the period a year earlier.
As a result, DaimlerChrysler said, its commercial vehicles division lost $100 million. Freightliner is in the process of eliminating 9,000 jobs.
Analysts said the results were broadly in line with expectations. "What it shows is that the targets set by the company were conservative, that they were realistic," said Joseph Harrigan, an automobile analyst in London at Credit Suisse First Boston.
Shares of DaimlerChrysler fell 12 cents in New York, to $49.79. In Frankfurt, its shares fell 0.87 euro, to 55.21 euro.
Chrysler's sales were 28 percent lower in the first quarter, compared with the period a year earlier, as it shut down production at seven plants to reduce the huge inventories of unsold cars that had built up at dealers across the United States. 
Dieter Zetsche, who took over as Chrysler's chief executive last fall, was cautious in his assessment.
"All the improvement we saw clearly came from the cost side," he told reporters in a telephone news conference from Detroit. "The revenue side is harder to control."
By contrast, results at Mercedes were better than ever. Despite an extremely weak automobile market in Germany and the United States, sales of Mercedes and other luxury brands have held up well. Mercedes sales increased 13 percent from the first quarter last year, reaching 11.2 billion euros, or $9.8 billion. Operating profit at Mercedes also climbed 13 percent, to 700 million euros, or $600 million.
DaimlerChrysler predicted in February that Chrysler would lose $2 billion to $2.5 billion this year, before it begins to break even early next year. By that yardstick, Chrysler has used up about half the anticipated loss. Company officials are hoping that sales and profits will pick up with the introduction of a renovated Jeep, the Liberty, as well as a new version of the Durango truck. 
But success also depends on a recovery in the American car market and the American economy as a whole. 
"If the world collapsed, we would need to set up a new plan," Mr. Zetsche said today. "But that's nothing we expect."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Manfred Gentz, left, is DaimlerChrysler's financial director. Jurgen Schrempp is chief executive. The company posted first-quarter results. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EURO (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); LUXURY GOODS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%); EXECUTIVES (50%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); DAIMLER TRUCKS NORTH AMERICA LLC (92%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%)

ORGANIZATION: DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG 

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%)

PERSON: DIETER ZETSCHE (59%) ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (88%); NEW YORK, USA (74%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



731 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Good Faith Appears Missing in Offer of Parish Aid 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN with LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
It was the kind of chance encounter that inevitably prompts talk of divine intervention and, in the end, is too good to be true. 
 The Rev. George Carlin, a Roman Catholic priest, was in a pub on the West Side on a Tuesday night earlier this month talking to a stranger about the Church of St. Bernard, the down-on-its-luck parish where he currently lives and works on West 14th Street in Manhattan. The Archdiocese of New York had marked the parish elementary school as one of six under consideration for closing because of budget cuts. 
 The stranger in the bar identified himself as Edward Michael Beagan, the wealthy owner of a high-tech telecommunications firm named Computersat with offices in Rockefeller Center. According to Father Carlin, Mr. Beagan said he had been planning to set up a charitable foundation and wanted to make a major donation to save the financially failing Catholic schools. 
As Father Carlin recalls it, Mr. Beagan had been boasting of his financial success, so the priest made a pitch: "If you have all these millions, do you want to give a couple hundred thousand to keep St. Bernard's open?" He hastened to add, "Actually, the pastor involved said we need $4.5 million." 
According to Father Carlin, Mr. Beagan lifted his glass and said: "Done!" 
The donation, estimated by the archdiocese at more than $150 million in stock, was hailed as an Easter miracle and created a buzz in New York's large Catholic community. Word of the donation had sharply lifted hopes not just at St. Bernard but at the five other elementary schools and at John A. Coleman High School in Hurley, N.Y., which is also marked for closing. At a meeting with parents on April 11, the Rev. Kenneth J. Smith, the pastor of the Church of St. Bernard, had predicted that the donation would save all the schools. 
In recent weeks, Mr. Beagan telephoned the archdiocese twice to repeat his pledge. But now, it seems, the offer was at best a flight of fancy. 
Mr. Beagan has been sanctioned twice by the federal Securities and Exchange Commission since 1980 for fraud and now faces judgments and penalties of more than $500,000. In each case, according to court documents, Mr. Beagan denied the government's allegations and blamed his troubles on conspiracies.
Mr. Beagan did not return phone calls seeking comment on Tuesday. Yesterday, a doorman at his apartment building in Guttenberg, N.J., said he was told to say that Mr. Beagan was in Japan and that no further information was available. 
In 1980, according to court records, federal regulators charged Mr. Beagan with securities fraud in connection with Teltronics, a company that went bankrupt. Mr. Beagan settled the case without admitting guilt by agreeing not to violate securities laws. 
But in the mid-1990's, Mr. Beagan met a scientist at a bar called Finnegans Wake on First Avenue and impressed him with talk of his business expertise, according to a lawsuit filed against him in 1995 by the S.E.C. Mr. Beagan offered to help the scientist raise money to develop cancer treatments. 
Mr. Beagan raised about $300,000 from investors in Kuwait as well as from people he met in New York bars and restaurants, from neighborhood doormen and from his landlord, Ed Reiss, according to the S.E.C. He assured them that his company, Cancer Minus, had developed an effective cancer drug.
There was no drug, nor did the scientist get any money, according to court documents. Mr. Beagan used it for personal expenses. A judge ruled in favor of the S.E.C. in 1999 and Mr. Beagan appealed.
Father Carlin met Mr. Beagan just five days after the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit rejected his appeal in the Cancer Minus case. 
It is unclear if Mr. Beagan now owns a business or even has any money. Recently, he has represented himself in court. And his former landlord, Mr. Reiss, said he had evicted Mr. Beagan from a brownstone apartment on the Upper East Side. "He never paid the rent," Mr. Reiss said, adding that Mr. Beagan had destroyed the apartment.
There is no record that Mr. Beagan actually owns Computersat or that the company is even an active business. It shares space in a suite of offices in Rockefeller Center, but there was no one there yesterday or Tuesday. Phone calls are taken by an answering service. And the company's Web site lists no names of officers or employees. 
Archdiocesan officials had said all along that talks about the gift were preliminary and had warned the schools not to focus on fund-raising in the business plans they each submitted this week. The potential school closings, which should be decided by Tuesday, are part of a wide effort by Cardinal Edward M. Egan to cut spending. 
The account of how the church became entangled with Mr. Beagan seems to be a sad tale of a clergyman, trained to see and expect the best in everyone, who trusted the wrong man. Desperate for a windfall of cash to save his school, Father Carlin apparently had the bad luck to run across a man who has made a habit of promising people windfalls. 
On the night of April 10, Father Carlin was at a pub on Ninth Avenue near West 55th Street, near St. Clare's Hospital and Health Center, where he had worked for several years as a chaplain. In the bar, Father Carlin, a former copy editor at The Daily News and The New York Post, met Mr. Beagan.
"He was kind of on a roll and he was very expansive telling me the story of his life," Father Carlin said. Mr. Beagan boasted that he helped design a satellite for NASA, attended Harvard Business School with President George W. Bush and had been an economic adviser to Japan, the priest said. "He was a great talker, dropped a lot of names." 
Father Carlin said that Mr. Beagan told him his usual drink was Grand Marnier. But as the priest remembers it, the man was drinking draft beer. 
The next morning, Father Carlin said, he telephoned Mr. Beagan and asked whether he really wanted to be "St. Bernard's savior." At the meeting with parents that night to strategize about how to save the St. Bernard/St. Xavier school, Father Smith, the pastor, announced that he was close to securing a major gift that would save all the schools. 
Joseph Zwilling, a spokesman for the archdiocese, said that there was no set protocol for how priests handle such offers. "There is not a guideline," Mr. Zwilling said. "We allow the common sense of the pastors to dictate the situation." 
Sitting at a table in the kitchen of the St. Bernard rectory yesterday afternoon, Father Smith and Father Carlin said that they believed that Mr. Beagan was sincere. "I still cling to the possibility that Ed does have some substance, that all of this is not just talk," Father Carlin said as he puffed on a cigarette. "I really like him and I still want to believe in him." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (87%); SECURITIES LAW (84%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (77%); MAJOR GIFTS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); CHARITIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); BUDGETS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); FOUNDATIONS (68%); FINES & PENALTIES (65%); CONSPIRACY (65%); LITIGATION (65%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (60%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); BONDS (60%); BUDGET CUTS (55%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STOCKS AND BONDS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M; EATON, LESLIE; BEAGAN, EDWARD MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



732 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Board Orders Limited Price Caps for California Power 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25 

 BODY:
Federal regulators decided tonight to impose broad price controls on electricity sales in California, reversing their previous stance and contradicting the Bush administration's steadfast opposition to federal intervention in the state's energy market.
 In a compromise, two of three commissioners of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission voted to cap electricity prices whenever supplies fall to within 7.5 percent of demand in the state's volatile electricity market. 
 The caps are to go into effect on May 1 and last a year. The controls should help California save billions of dollars it would otherwise pay to electricity generators that state officials have accused of price-gouging. 
"California consumers can rest assured that the commission has been attentive to their problems, and has worked tirelessly to ensure that they receive necessary relief," said Curt L. Hebert Jr., the commission's chairman.
California's flawed attempt at electricity deregulation has led to skyrocketing prices and left the leading utilities in the state near insolvency. State officials have urged the commission to corral prices until new power plants are built.
The intervention announced tonight will affect far more electricity sales than an earlier plan under consideration by the regulatory commission. But California officials and one of the agency's commissioners had sought more sweeping caps that could be applied even if supply levels were comfortably above demand.
The order was harshly criticized by that commissioner, William L. Massey, as falling short of what was needed to stem the economic damage caused by high prices in California and neighboring states.
"Generators are exercising their market power in that state 24 hours a day, seven days a week," Mr. Massey, a Democrat, said after the vote. "It is much too late in the game for this agency to settle for a 'half a loaf' solution to the problem."
But Mr. Hebert, the Republican chairman, and Commissioner Linda Key Breathitt, a Democrat, defended the order as a balanced approach, preserving competitive markets while offering cost relief.
The agency has the authority to set "just and reasonable" prices for electricity wholesale markets, but has generally declined to intervene in nascent energy markets it helped to create. The agency had maintained this hands-off approach even as prices soared and the California market became dysfunctional.
The Bush administration has opposed price restraints on electricity, arguing that they distort the market. 
But commissioners have come under heavy pressure from members of Congress, California officials and some industry executives to play a more active role. California is paying 10 to 20 times as much to buy power this year as it did a year ago.
A bipartisan group of senators has introduced legislation that would require the regulatory commission to enact price caps for California and neighboring states. They argue that the agency has refused to fulfill its mandate to ensure "just and reasonable" electricity prices. 
"We have to make F.E.R.C. show up to work and do its job," said Senator Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat and a cosponsor of the legislation.
Senator Gordon H. Smith, an Oregon Republican and another cosponsor, said he was a strong supporter of the free market. But, he argued, the electricity market in the West today "doesn't exist."
Industry officials have also put pressure on the agency to do more to stabilize the giant California market. Many generating companies selling electricity there are not getting paid because the utilities in the state are billions of dollars in debt.
Keith E. Bailey, chairman and chief executive of the Williams Companies of Tulsa, Okla., a leading electricity supplier in California, said today that price controls under some circumstances could help. Mr. Bailey predicted that controls would eliminate some of the higher prices that generators are demanding for fear that they will not get paid.
"The combination of short-term regional price controls during emergency periods," Mr. Bailey said in a statement, "along with the elimination of credit risk, should provide the market a respite while creating incentive for the private sector to invest with confidence." 
Under its new plan, the commission has authorized California's electricity market monitors to impose price caps when they find that the available supply of electricity falls to within 7.5 percent of demand, a level the state calls a Stage 1 emergency.
The caps would be based on what federal and state officials determine to be the highest costs of generation by the least efficient power plants serving the market at the time. That level is likely to be high enough so that the majority of generating companies earn sizable profits even when price caps are enacted.
Had the system been in place in recent months, it might have knocked several billions dollars off California's electricity bill, people at the federal agency said. California officials say generating companies overcharged more than $6 billion since last summer, a figure the companies say is wildly inflated.
The agency's staff first proposed to set a price monitoring and mitigation formula that was much more restrictive than the one adopted today. It would have limited price caps to Stage 3 emergencies, when supply fell to within 1.5 percent of demand.
But the two Democratic commissioners pushed for a plan that would impose price controls even if shortages were not acute, arguing that exorbitant prices were charged even when supplies were relatively ample, officials involved in the talks said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (92%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (89%); UTILITY RATES (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WHOLESALERS (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (73%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%) FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



733 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Using an Informer, U.S. Agents Charge 45 in Mafia Crimes 

BYLINE:  By ALAN FEUER 

 BODY:
A Mafia turncoat who secretly recorded thousands of hours of gangland conversations helped the authorities file charges yesterday against 45 men accused of committing a smorgasbord of savage and small-time mob crimes, from murder to stock fraud to shaking down two competing delicatessens.
 The arrests occurred before daylight as more than 300 federal agents and police officers swept through New York, New Jersey and Miami. The three-year investigation was one of the longest and most extensive undercover mob inquiries in a decade, the authorities said. Its main target was the secretive Genovese family, the largest Mafia group in New York City, which the government called the "Rolls-Royce of organized crime." 
 The arraignment section of Federal District Court in Brooklyn was packed with federal agents in dark blue nylon jackets stenciled with the yellow letters F.B.I. The agents drew cool stares from the elderly men in velour track suits who sat outside the arraignment court or spoke with their lawyers, some of whom had been awakened at 5:30 a.m. by panicked calls.
At a news conference across the street, federal officials released a three-inch stack of paperwork, including indictments, with details on the men arrested in the case. While prosecutors accused 32 of being connected to the Genovese family, not all had traditional Mafia backgrounds. Among them were two retired police officers, a certified public accountant, a lawyer and a Hasidic man accused of joining in a Brooklyn labor bribery scheme.
Despite the voluminous court filings, there was little information about the informer in the case. Federal prosecutors said only that he was a well-placed Genovese associate who had developed the trust of the men he was betraying to the point where they freely discussed their crimes. 
In one recorded conversation, court papers show, a defendant uttered this Mafia truism: "Hurting people. That's what this is about. If you're not capable of doing that, you might as well stay at home."
In another, a suspect in the case explained the chain of command for gangland murders: "No matter who you are killing, it's from the boss."
The authorities said that among the Genovese members taken into custody were Frank Serpico, a former acting boss (and no relation to the whistle-blowing police officer in the famous 1970's corruption case); Alan Longo and Rosario Gangi, two captains; and Salvatore Aparo and Peter DiChiara, two acting captains.
The remaining defendants were described as members or associates of New York's four other crime families -- the Bonannos, the Colombos, the Gambinos and the Lucheses.
"These arrests open a window into the shadow economy of the mob," said Loretta E. Lynch, the United States attorney in Brooklyn. "They have cracked down on a criminal industry that operated from Little Italy to Miami to offshore accounts in the Bahamas."
A single sentence from the statement released by Ms. Lynch captured the sweeping nature of the accusations: "The crimes discussed, planned and carried out by the defendants included murder, loan sharking, illegal gambling, extortion of businesses, drug trafficking, bank robberies, firearms possession, mail fraud, wire fraud, stock fraud, money laundering, obstruction of justice and labor bribery."
The core group of defendants is an eclectic Genovese crew led by Mr. Aparo, 72, and Mr. DiChiara, 58, the government said. The crew included Michael Norrito, a retired police detective who specialized in collecting debts, and Joseph Savarese Sr., a retired patrolman accused of helping to run a Lower Manhattan gambling den, according to court papers. Another member of the crew, the government said, was an accountant named Peter Tarangelo, known as the tax doctor, who was an expert on hiding money in overseas accounts.
The Hasidic man, Abe Weider, was charged with paying bribes to a building workers' union so that cheaper, mob-connected maintenance men could work in a Brooklyn apartment complex he owned without complaints from the union.
There were so many defendants that the government included thumbnail biographies of many in its court filings. Mr. Aparo, for instance, was described as a man who "constantly plans obstruction of justice, is armed with automatic weapons and stands ready to order murder." And his son, Vincent, 50, "is a prolific loan shark who quickly assaults victims who are unable to pay, and who stockpiles firearms to be used for organized crime," the papers said.
The indictments were a lightning blow to the Genovese family, which until now seemed to have escaped a recent spate of Brooklyn mob prosecutions. The authorities said the new case was the most substantial infiltration of the family since Peter Savino, another Genovese turncoat, worked undercover a decade ago, recording conversations that eventually led to the 1997 conviction of Vincent Gigante, the family's boss.
Prosecutors say that while Mr. Gigante, known as Chin, still runs the clan from prison, the family has a small committee of ranking members that oversees day-to-day operations. With at least 250 made members, it is the city's largest mob family, the authorities said. It stands to reason, then, that the crimes it is accused of committing are myriad, from the brutal to the mundane.
The indictments, for instance, charge that three men helped plan the 1996 murder of John Borelli, a Gambino family associate who was gunned down in his car on a street in Queens. But they also charge five other men with clogging city sewers with sand and concrete, then calling in a mob-connected contractor to make emergency repairs. 
Then there was the accusation that the Genovese family extorted $25,000 a year from a deli in Queens. "This payment was in return for providing protection to Gourmet Boutique from a rival business known as John's Gourmet Salads," court papers said, somewhat cryptically. "John's Gourmet Salads, in turn, enlisted members and associates of the Colombo family to protect it from Gourmet Boutique."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, Loretta E. Lynch, the United States attorney in Brooklyn, with a chart of mob family connections yesterday. Leaving the federal courthouse in Brooklyn after arraignment in the case yesterday were Louis Vallario, left, Joseph Anemone, below, and Daniel Longo. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); MURDER (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); BRIBERY (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); MEN (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); FAMILY (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); ACCOUNTING (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (60%); RELIGION (50%) CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ORGANIZED CRIME; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); INFORMERS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

PERSON: FEUER, ALAN; GENOVESE CRIME FAMILY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY; MIAMI (FLA)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



734 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 71 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: EUROPE; 
TURKEY: ECONOMIC MEASURE PASSES

BYLINE:  Dow Jones 

 BODY:
 Turkey's Parliament passed a law granting autonomy to the Central Bank, one of 15 measures that the economy minister, Kemal Dervis, said were vital to underpin a crisis-recovery program. The new law will make the Central Bank independent of the government and entrust it with running monetary policy to meet inflation targets. Mr. Dervis departed for the United States to seek international support for his recovery program.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); TRENDS (82%) LAW AND LEGISLATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TURKEY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

INDUSTRY:  SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS; 

PERSON: DERVIS, KEMAL (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); TURKEY (92%) TURKEY

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



735 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS; 
Share Prices Gain on Better-Than-Expected Housing Sales

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks gained yesterday for the first time in four days after housing sales rose faster than expected in March, lifting investor optimism that the economic slowdown may end soon.
 Pulte and other home builders were among the biggest gainers in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. General Electric led the advance on optimism that it would soon complete the purchase of Honeywell International. Philip Morris rallied on a report that the Justice Department might not have adequate financing for its lawsuit against the tobacco industry. 
 "The home sales were a positive note; it shows that the consumer hasn't gone away," said William Rutherford, president of Rutherford Investment Management in Portland, Ore., which manages about $100 million.
The S.& P. 500 climbed 19.28 points, or 1.6 percent, to 1,228.75. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 170.86 points, or 1.6 percent, to 10,625.20.
The Nasdaq composite index advanced 43.19 points, or 2.1 percent, to 2,059.80 after losing 7.6 percent over the previous three sessions. The Dow has climbed 26 percent since April 4, when it touched its year-to-date low.
Stocks, which had fallen when trading began, rebounded after the National Association of Realtors released its report on sales of previously owned homes in March, which showed the second-highest level on record.
The report suggested that "the consumer is holding the economy up right now," Mr. Rutherford said. Investors will "feel more confident when the C.E.O.'s stand up and start saying our order book is building," he added.
Pulte rallied $2.43, to $47.01; KB Home gained $1.88, to $31.11; and Centex rose 86 cents, to $42.54.
General Electric gained $1.82, to $47.81. The company may change its pricing and sales policies to overcome European regulatory opposition to its planned purchase of Honeywell, according to people close to the transaction. Honeywell rose $2.12, to $47.51.
Philip Morris, the biggest tobacco company, advanced $2.75, to $50.70. Justice Department lawyers have warned that the budget proposed by President Bush does not include enough money for the government's lawsuit against the tobacco industry, The Washington Post reported, citing a confidential memo.
Philip Morris also said it would raise the wholesale price of cigarettes about 14 cents a pack.
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco gained $2.61, to $57.86.
With 67 percent of S.& P. 500 companies having reported earnings, first-quarter profits are now projected to fall 6.4 percent, according to Thomson Financial/First Call. For the full year, profits are expected to fall 2.5 percent. At the beginning of the year, analysts were forecasting first-quarter earnings growth of 5.1 percent and a gain of 9.2 percent for the year.
Walt Disney rose $2.23, to $30.81. Disney reported that fiscal second-quarter profit, excluding one-time items, rose 36 percent from a year earlier. Analysts had forecast a decline.
Phone company stocks rose. Verizon Communications gained $2.37, to $55.18, after it earned 72 cents a share in the first quarter, beating analysts' estimates by a penny.
SBC Communications rose $1.09, to $40.79, and Qwest Communications International advanced $1.60, to $38.90.
Newport News Shipbuilding jumped $9.05, to $64.10. General Dynamics, the largest shipbuilder for the Navy, agreed to buy Newport News for $2.1 billion. The company will pay $67.50 for each share of its rival, 23 percent more than the Tuesday closing price.
General Dynamics lost $1.38, to $72.73. Newport News also said its first-quarter profit rose more than had been forecast.
Pharmacia, the maker of the painkiller Celebrex, and American Home Products, the maker of the antidepressant Effexor XR, reported profit that matched analysts' estimates. Bristol-Myers Squibb reported earnings that were a penny ahead of analysts' forecasts.
Pharmacia gained $1.09, to $49.10; American Home rose $1.73, to $56.08; and Bristol-Myers Squibb, the No. 1 maker of cancer medicines, advanced $1.96, to $56.86.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LITIGATION (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (65%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (84%); PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (61%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (57%); KB HOME CORP (53%); WASHINGTON POST CO (52%); WALT DISNEY CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%)

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (84%); PMI (SWX) (84%); PM (PAR) (84%); PM (NYSE) (84%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); HON (NYSE) (57%); HON (LSE) (57%); KBH (NYSE) (53%); WPO (NYSE) (52%); DIS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (57%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (53%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (50%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (50%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (56%) OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



736 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: Qualcomm Reports A Healthy Quarter 

 BODY:
Qualcomm, the big developer of wireless communications technology, met Wall Street's earning estimates yesterday but warned of weakness ahead. 
 The company, based in San Diego, reported second-quarter earnings of $232.6 million, or 29 cents a share, compared with $206.82 million, or 26 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier. 
 Softening demand for its chips and communications licenses, however, will hurt earnings in the coming quarters, Qualcomm said.
"Uncertainty in global economic conditions, however, has resulted in recent reductions in chip demand from our customers in the third and fourth fiscal quarters," said Irwin M. Jacobs, the chief executive.
The key to Qualcomm's recent strength has been the rapid adoption by telecommunications companies of its code division multiple access technology, Qualcomm's proprietary wireless technology that competes with two other global standards.
But the company is reducing its estimates of both the number of C.D.M.A. phones that are likely to be sold and the average selling price of such phones. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CODE DIVISION MULTIPLE ACCESS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); EXECUTIVES (53%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: QUALCOMM INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: QUALCOMM INC 

TICKER: QCOM (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%) SIC4812 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



737 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: Slower Growth Seen in Europe, Held Back by German Woes 

BYLINE:  By PAUL MELLER 

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, April 25 

 BODY:
Acknowledging that the slowdown in the United States will retard European economic growth after all, the European Commission cut its 2001 forecast for growth in the 12 nations adopting the euro currency by 0.4 percentage point today, to 2.8 percent. The commission said it expected a slight uptick in 2002, to 2.9 percent.
 Pedro Solbes, the economic and monetary affairs commissioner, said the negative impact from the United States was modest so far, but the commission warned in a statement that there could be "a reaction beyond a mere limited growth pause" in Europe if the situation in the United States grew any worse. 
 The commission said it expected Germany, the largest of the 12 euro-zone economies, to slow the most, to 2.2 percent this year from about 3 percent in 2000. 
Mr. Solbes said the German economy was much more exposed to the United States than its 11 euro-zone neighbors. And it is in shakier fiscal shape than its partners: relative to the size of the economy, Germany's budget deficit this year is expected to be the largest in the European Union, at 1.7 percent of gross domestic product. Mr. Solbes said tax cuts made necessary by tepid economic conditions and other factors were responsible for the growing deficit, but he added, "This has to be temporary and must be reversed in 2002."
The commission's report foresaw average inflation of 2.2 percent this year in the euro zone, slightly above the European Central Bank's target of 2 percent, but it forecast a fall to 1.8 percent in 2002. Unemployment was seen falling from about 8.9 percent in 2000 to 8.5 percent in 2001 and 7.9 percent in 2002.
Analysts said the rosy inflation forecast was optimistic and perhaps meant to push the bank to cut interest rates. "Our methodology does give rise to more optimistic results than other institutions," Mr. Solbes acknowledged. "But often these are closer to reality." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BUDGETS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); INTEREST RATES (62%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%) EUROPEAN COMMISSION; EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: MELLER, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (94%); BELGIUM (79%) EUROPE; GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



738 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING 

 BODY:
 AMERICAS

CANADA: BLUE RUG PRECEDES RED CARPET -- Prince Charles arrived in Ottawa yesterday at the start of a six-day visit and took precautions against bringing foot-and-mouth disease from Britain. With a broad smile, the Prince of Wales carefully wiped his feet on a blue rug soaked in disinfectant -- as all visitors from Britain are now required to do when arriving in Canada -- before stepping onto the red carpet for his official welcome. Sebastien Bois, the official media coordinator for the visit, said the prince and his entourage had been asked to launder their clothes specially before coming to Canada aboard a Canadian Forces Airbus. (Agence France-Presse)

BOLIVIA: STRIKE ERUPTS IN VIOLENCE -- Two people were killed in clashes between the police and protesters during a 24-hour transportation strike that paralyzed much of the country. The strike came after talks between union and government leaders on a number of economic issues broke down. Opposition leaders are planning a national strike in early May in an attempt to force the resignation of President Hugo Banzer.
Clifford Krauss (NYT)

PERU: BERENSON WITNESS WON'T TALK -- A convicted Peruvian terrorist, suspected of having posed with Lori Berenson as a journalist to inspect the Peruvian Congress building as part of the planning for a rebel attack, refused to testify in the New Yorker's trial, saying she would not speak from behind bars and without a lawyer. Nancy Gilvonio is considered a key witness in the case; Ms. Berenson's lawyer said Ms. Berenson did not know Ms. Gilvonio's true identity when she hired her as a photographer. Clifford Krauss (NYT)

AFRICA

RWANDA: NEW JUDGES FOR TRIBUNAL -- Two new judges have been added to the war crimes tribunal for Rwanda, raising the number to 11 and allowing the court to reinforce its appeals chamber. The new judges are Winston Churchill Matanzima Maqutu of the Lesotho High Court, and Arlette Ramaroson, former president of the criminal chamber of the Madgascar Supreme Court. The tribunal was set up after the 1994 genocide in which at least 500,000 Rwandans died.
Barbara Crossette (NYT)

ASIA

INDIA: STRIKE SHUTS DOWN BOMBAY -- A strike called by trade unions and supported by a range of political parties paralyzed Bombay, the country's commercial and financial capital. The unions were protesting policies proposed by the central government that would make it easier for employers to dismiss workers and would hasten the sale of money-losing public companies.
Celia W. Dugger (NYT)

EUROPE

UKRAINE: U.S. JOINS INVESTIGATION -- Forensic experts from the F.B.I. and the American military arrived in Ukraine to try to determine whether a headless corpse found near Kiev last November is that of a journalist at the center of a scandal involving President Leonid Kuchma. Audio tapes made public by Mr. Kuchma's former bodyguard appear to implicate the president in a plot to kill the journalist, Georgy Gongadze, who has been missing since September. Russian experts have identified the body as Mr. Gongadze's; German experts say the identity is not conclusive. Mr. Kuchma denies any role in the plot. Michael Wines (NYT)

BELGIUM: CALL TO ACT ON 'BLOOD DIAMONDS' -- Belgium called for a worldwide certification agreement to ban the trade in so-called blood diamonds, which finance conflicts in west and southern Africa. Belgium, home to the biggest diamond market in the world, in Antwerp, has negotiated certification agreements with Sierra Leone and Angola. It wants all countries to follow suit, a government official said at the opening of a three-day conference in Brussels. The trade in blood diamonds is believed to be worth around $280 million a year.
Paul Meller (NYT)

FRANCE: AFRICAN LEADERS' SUIT THROWN OUT -- A French court dismissed a lawsuit by three African heads of state who tried to use an archaic law against the author and publisher of a book highly critical of their regimes. The presidents, Omar Bongo of Gabon, Idriss Deby of Chad and Denis Sassou Nguesso of Congo, cited a French law passed in 1881 that banned authors from insulting foreign heads of state. But the court said the law contravened the European Convention on Human Rights. The book, "Black Silence," by Francois-Xavier Verschaeve, was published in France last year.
Suzanne Daley (NYT)

MIDDLE EAST

ISRAEL: A NEW HAVEN FOR RUSSIAN MAGNATE -- Flying by private jet from Gibraltar to Tel Aviv, Vladimir Gusinsky arrived in Israel yesterday after Spanish courts rejected an appeal by Russia to extradite the media entrepreneur to Moscow. The Russian government leveled new money-laundering charges this week against Mr. Gusinsky, the former proprietor of Russia's largest private TV network, but political commentators here predicted that Israel would reject a request to extradite Mr. Gusinsky, who holds Israeli citizenship and is part owner of a leading Israeli newspaper, Maariv. William A. Orme Jr. (NYT)

IRAQ: OIL BUSINESS IS BOOMING -- Iraq has increased production at its northern oil refineries to a level higher than what was produced before the Persian Gulf war in 1991, the manager of the complex, Iraq's largest, said. The refineries are now processing between 390,000 and 400,000 barrels per day, said Ali Hamid. Under the United Nations' program that supervises Iraqi oil sales, Iraq is allowed to buy $600 million worth of oil equipment and spare parts over six months to repair its dilapidated oil industry. (Reuters)

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH ROYALTY (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); STRIKES (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); WITNESSES (88%); JUDGES (87%); APPEALS (85%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (72%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (72%); POLITICS (72%); GENOCIDE (71%); TESTIMONY (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); LAWYERS (71%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (70%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); TERRORISM (69%); FORENSICS (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); WAR CRIMES (62%); DISMISSALS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (56%); AIRBUS SAS (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (56%)

PERSON: PRINCE CHARLES (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (90%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%) CANADA (97%); UKRAINE (93%); PERU (93%); RWANDA (93%); INDIA (90%); LESOTHO (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



739 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Big Grant Proposed for Ailey Home 

BYLINE:  By DOREEN CARVAJAL 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, known more for his passion for opera than for dance, yesterday proposed a matching city grant of $7.5 million toward a plan by the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater to build a glittering new home of glass and metal in Manhattan. 
 The building, at Ninth Avenue and 55th Street, would be the largest space in the country devoted exclusively to dance, Ailey officials said. 
 In the last eight months, the 43-year-old dance institution has intensively searched for new quarters in Manhattan to replace its crowded, rented studios at 211 West 61st Street. The city pledge is intended to jump-start the company's ambitious plans, disclosed yesterday, to develop a $47.5 million building on a site now occupied by WNET's old television studios. 
One board member said the dance troupe had already collected $20 million in pledges, making it almost certain that the company would get the city money under a complicated matching formula.
"This will give us visibility in the dance capital of the world," said Sharon Gersten Luckman, the executive director of the Alvin Ailey Dance Foundation, which includes the principal and junior performing groups and a growing school. When completed in spring 2004, she said, the building will include eight floors of studios, a small theater and offices.
The commitment to the Ailey was included in the mayor's revised budget proposal for the next fiscal year, released yesterday. But Mr. Giuliani expressed confidence that the dance company would get the money. He predicted that the City Council might add more. 
"The major benefit to the city is to anchor a great New York institution and the economic development that it can bring," said Mr. Guiliani, who has attended performances of the company, but said, "I have to admit I'm much more of an opera fan."
"One of the things I tried to change in the budget is that the arts institutions are good for business," he said. "They bring lots of jobs and they bring lots of tax revenues."
The Alvin Ailey company's efforts to find a new home mark the steady transformation of one of the most prominent African-American cultural institutions. The company was founded in 1958 by Mr. Ailey, a tall Texas-born dancer, whose work features pieces like "Blues Suite," a dance of pain and anger associated with the blues and the African-American experience. His most popular works fuse modern, jazz, and classical dance into performances that continue to draw large numbers of young dance fans.
Still, less than 10 years ago, the Ailey was a company struggling to pay its bills. It had a $1.5 million deficit and contributions were meager. But by 1993, several donors like the Lila Wallace-Reader's Digest Arts Stabilization Initiative and the Doll Foundation provided money to steady the organization, which embarked on a relentless campaign to increase its visibility.
The company also created a wide assortment of programs to nurture new audiences with an Alvin Ailey summer day camp and an Ailey Dance Kids program that takes dancers into New York City's public schools. 
In recent years, the company has maintained stable cash reserves and has sold out performances at City Center. Its list of contributors has been dominated by foundations, which last year gave more than $2 million, compared with $507,000 from government grants. So Mr. Giuliani's proposal is an enormous sum for an arts institution accustomed to receiving $90,000 to $135,000 a year from the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs.
"It's magnificent," said Arthur J. Mirante, a member of the Ailey board and the chief executive of Cushman & Wakefield, which volunteered last year to find new quarters for the company. "This money from the city is exactly the kind of bridge we needed to give us a sense of financial security."
The design for the company's new headquarters will nearly double the dance space for the company to 71,000 square feet, with a transparent building of glass and metal that will allow pedestrians to glimpse dancers rehearsing. "It's going to feel like a lantern on the street," said the building's architect, Natan Bibliowicz. "It's going to feel so energetic." 
The new building would have 12 studios, including a theater, with a seating capacity for 300, that can also be converted into two studios. The dance space will consist of so-called floating floors, whose composition makes them soft to the feet. "When you jump on this floor it has a little give," Mr. Bibliowicz said.
Ms. Luckman, the company's executive director, said the group would rent studios to other dance troupes at reduced rates to soften the jolt of rents that have soared as high as $50 an hour in Manhattan. 
The company's school of 3,500 students has been growing at an annual rate of about 10 percent a year, Ms. Luckman said, adding that there are waiting lists for some classes.
With a budget last year of $13 million, the construction of a new building is an enormous undertaking for Alvin Ailey. In addition to the $47.5 million cost of demolition and construction, the troupe also intends to create a $12.5 million endowment fund to subsidize new productions. 
Mr. Mirante said that even before drawings of the new building were created, donors had pledged almost $20 million for construction.
"There will be a big announcement and we are in the early stages of our campaign," said the board's new chairwoman, Joan Weill. She and her husband, Sanford I. Weill, the chairman of Citigroup, have given heavily to Carnegie Hall, where Mr. Weill is chairman of the board. 
Michael M. Kaiser, the president of the Kennedy Center in Washington, who as its top administrator helped restore the Ailey troupe to financial stability in the early 1990's, said the company was capable of achieving its ambitions.
"The company is so well run and the board has such strength," he said, "that I am absolutely confident that the Alvin Ailey organization, which is the leading African-American cultural institution, must and can find the resources to find a permanent home." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (92%); THEATER (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); DANCERS (89%); MAYORS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); CITIES (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (71%); JAZZ & BLUES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) DANCING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AILEY, ALVIN, AMERICAN DANCE THEATER 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (89%) CARVAJAL, DOREEN; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



740 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: 28 in Queens Are Charged In Pollution At Junkyards 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA STEWART 

 BODY:
A yearlong investigation into environmental crimes at Queens junkyards ended yesterday with the arrests of 28 workers charged with dumping thousands of gallons of toxic car fluids that poisoned the land and poured into Flushing Bay.
 A team of city police officers and state investigators raided 21 junkyards in the large commercial strip on Willets Point near Shea Stadium, arresting owners and employees and seizing millions of dollars in assets, including bank accounts and machinery. The charges could lead to sentences of four years in prison, heavy fines and multimillion-dollar payments to clean up brownfields and Flushing Bay, the state attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, said. Thirty-two junkyard workers were charged; four have not been arrested. 
 "This is a massive environmental debacle," he said. "These businesses have been dumping fluids that leave our environment in horrendous shape, and leaving the public to pay for the cleanup. They've created brownfields that lie fallow, that nobody wants. That forestalls economic development and creates wastelands in the middle of the city."
Mr. Spitzer said the workers poured antifreeze, brake fluid and other toxic fluids onto the ground, where they leached into the water system. They cut concrete trenches to channel the waste into Flushing Bay, he said, and pumped fluids through hoses that emptied into storm water drains or the bay. 
"They deliberately punctured holes in tanks so that gas and oil and antifreeze ran all over the place," said Mary Ellen Kris, the New York City director of the State Department of Environmental Conservation. "They were renegades when it came to environmental law. They've caused extensive damage to the soil and the bay." 
The investigation, carried out by city police, the attorney general's office and the Department of Environmental Conservation, began when undercover police officers opened a scrap metal shop to investigate the junkyards for unrelated crimes. A city police detective, Joseph Wedge, got in touch with the other agencies when he saw the greasy blackened soil and oil-slicked puddles around the shops. That evidence allowed state investigators to obtain search warrants. 
Mr. Spitzer said charging the junkyard workers with felonies and civil violations of state environmental regulations was significant because polluters are usually charged with misdemeanors.
"The judges impose a $500 fine," Mr. Spitzer said. "It's like a ticket. It isn't much of a deterrent." 
The junkyards, which cover most of the 55-acre Willets Point area, have long been an eyesore, the Queens borough president, Claire Shulman, said. She hopes to have them all condemned this year, violators and law-abiders alike, to make room for an urban renewal project. 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 28, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article and a picture caption on Thursday about arrests for environmental crimes at junkyards near Shea Stadium misidentified the section of Queens. It is Corona, not Willets Point.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A to Z Auto Salvage on 34th Avenue in Willets Point was one of the 21 Queens junkyards raided yesterday as 32 workers were charged with poisoning the land by illegally dumping gas, oil and other toxic fluids. (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROWNFIELD SITES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); ARRESTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); SEARCH WARRANTS (89%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); MISDEMEANORS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); FELONIES (73%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%) WATER POLLUTION; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%) STEWART, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; FLUSHING BAY (NYC); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



741 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Hints Deals Are Near For Ballparks 

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON with RICHARD SANDOMIR 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani dangled a tantalizing surprise before city residents yesterday as he released his $39.5 billion city budget, hinting once again that new baseball stadiums for the Yankees and the Mets would be built soon.
 "We are negotiating with both the Yankees and the Mets and we are very, very close and we will tell you everything in about two weeks, maybe three," he said. 
 But before the afternoon had turned into evening, Mr. Giuliani's aides were playing down his comments, saying that in fact much work remained before any kind of announcement could be made about long-debated new or renovated stadiums for the Mets or Yankees. 
"It could be two or three weeks, it could be a month; it could be four months away," one administration official said. "There is no deal."
What prompted the mayor to segue from budgetary matters into one of his favorite subjects -- new and improved stadiums -- became apparent a bit later in the day. Mr. Giuliani ventured into that territory when he was asked about one of the most pressing questions in this year's budget. 
How would the administration cut taxes next year by about $525 million, as the mayor has proposed, and find the money to give union employees a 4 percent raise, the terms of a tentative settlement reached with the city's largest union? The answer, according to one administration official, was a clever solution that had not been previously disclosed. The city found some extra money for labor costs by raiding a stadium fund of $194 million that had been set aside in previous financial plans. 
The mayor's budget also contained a passing hint of an alternative method the city might use to help pay for $600 million in stadium construction costs in the future. It could use so-called lease appropriation debt, most likely relying on a quasi-government entity like the Industrial Development Agency to pay for the construction and then use tax revenues generated by the stadium and nearby properties to help repay the debt.
Yesterday, when Mr. Giuliani was asked to explain the financing -- building new Mets and Yankee stadiums would cost an estimated $1.5 billion -- he declined to elaborate, instead hedging a bit on his earlier boast. 
"You can be really close to finishing the negotiations and then you never finish it," he said yesterday. "So I don't want to say anything else about it."
And by late yesterday afternoon, during an interview on WABC radio, he backpedaled even more, although he was still promising a brand new stadium in the Bronx for the Yankees, which many of his critics believe is highly unlikely.
"We don't have a deal yet on any one of the stadiums, but we are closer than we have been in the past," he said.
"There is a lot to be done," one administration official said.
The budgetary maneuver and others like it that were released yesterday show just how tight the city's budget is this year, as city tax revenue grows more slowly, given the slowdown in the economy.
Mr. Giuliani, in addition to eliminating the sports facilities from the fiscal 2002 budget, advocated tens of millions of dollars in other new cuts in various city departments, including a total of $46.3 million from city libraries, $23.3 million from city museums and other cultural institutions and $23 million in a variety of city health programs.
Given those cuts -- and a tax cut package that the City Council has already objected to --Giuliani administration officials have already predicted tougher-than-normal negotiations with the Council, which intends to either approve the mayor's budget or adopt its own by early June.
The $39.5 billion budget the mayor unveiled yesterday, his eighth and final spending plan, includes a sprinkling of new programs. There is $34 million to provide weekend science and English classes to tens of thousands of city public school students, another $33 million to intensify the war against drugs in high-crime neighborhoods and $67 million to finance a new Health and Hospitals Corporation program that will reimburse the city hospitals for care that, to a large extent, it already provides to uninsured immigrants.
On the bricks-and-mortar side, known as the capital budget, the mayor has included money to build, over the coming years, new courthouses in Brooklyn and the Bronx, new schools across the city, a new Willis Avenue Bridge and for improvements in many city buildings. There is also a large increase in spending on new museums and other cultural institutions, including large grants for Lincoln Center, the Guggenheim Museum and the Museum of Modern Art, all of which are undertaking expansion or renovation projects in the next several years.
But in the 2002 fiscal year, which starts July 1, there was a fair share of belt tightening needed to balance the budget while also covering about $525 million in tax cuts that mayor wants, as well as the labor settlement. The settlement alone would cost the city about $1.7 billion in fiscal 2002, assuming somewhat optimistically that teachers, police officers and unions that represent other workers accept the same package tentatively agreed to earlier this month by the 125,000-member District Council 37 union.
Spending has been tightened at many agencies, and City Council officials bluntly stated yesterday that they would move to block many of those cuts.
"With the stroke of a pen, the mayor has cut vital services to seniors, children, and the poor," said Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone.
Council leaders also objected yesterday to the mayor's tax cut package, which they said is too expensive and not beneficial enough to middle- and lower-income residents. The mayor proposed four different tax cuts yesterday for 2002, including the elimination of the city sales tax on clothing and shoes and a reduction in the city's personal income tax that would save a family of four that earns $100,000 about $89 a year.
The Council has its own tax-reduction package, which would offer tax breaks for child-care costs, on mortgages taken out by first-time homebuyers and to lower-income working families, instead of the across-the-board income tax cut the mayor has proposed. The Council's package would also cost much less, a total of $366 million in the 2002 fiscal year.
Mr. Giuliani said yesterday that he is confident he is leaving the next mayor with a city that is in strong fiscal shape, and able, if necessary, to weather an economic downturn.
But Mr. Vallone and several budget watchdog groups warned yesterday that Mr. Giuliani's spending plan still threatens to leave the city with large future budget deficits.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday that deals for new baseball stadiums are near completion. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (95%); BUDGETS (92%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); TAX LAW (71%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (70%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (62%) BASEBALL; STADIUMS AND ARENAS; YANKEE STADIUM (NYC); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SHEA STADIUM (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%) NEW YORK YANKEES; NEW YORK METS 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (93%) LIPTON, ERIC; SANDOMIR, RICHARD; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



742 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Bush Fails to Win Over Moderate Democrats on Tax Plan 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25 

 BODY:
With Congress heading toward a decision about how much to scale back his $1.6 trillion tax cut, President Bush met with moderate Democratic senators today in search of support but made no apparent headway.
 Acknowledging explicitly that he was unlikely to get his full plan passed, Mr. Bush pressed ahead as negotiators from the House and Senate staged a brief public meeting to kick off their effort to find a middle ground between the budget plan passed by the House, which provided for Mr. Bush's full tax cut, and the plan adopted by the Senate, which reduced the tax cut to $1.2 trillion over the next decade. 
 But the real negotiations are not so much between the House and Senate as among the White House, the Republican leadership in the Senate and moderate Democrats who might be persuaded to vote for a tax cut in the range of $1.4 trillion, a level that Mr. Bush signaled today that he could accept.
With the Senate divided 50-50, those Democrats have proved to hold the balance of power on budget issues, especially since two Republicans, James M. Jeffords of Vermont and Lincoln D. Chafee of Rhode Island, have said they will not support a tax cut bigger than $1.2 trillion.
So far, though, the seven moderate Democrats most widely seen as the swing votes have held firm against increasing the tax cut above $1.2 trillion, frustrating Mr. Bush on the centerpiece of his agenda.
Mr. Bush invited a number of the Democrats, including Senators Max Baucus of Montana, Ben Nelson of Nebraska, Robert G. Torricelli of New Jersey and Max Cleland of Georgia, to the White House this morning to discuss the situation. Mr. Bush also had dinner on Tuesday night with Senator John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana.
Afterward, Mr. Bush said he recognized that there would have to be a compromise between $1.2 trillion and $1.6 trillion.
"The way I like to describe it is, we've come from the ideological to the practical and I'm a practical man," Mr. Bush said in an interview with the Associated Press. "I want to get it done."
The politics of tax cutting this year are particularly complex. There is broad support in both parties for pushing through a quick and substantial tax cut for this year to give a boost to the faltering economy. 
There is also bipartisan backing for many specific types of tax cuts. Just today, the House Ways and Means Committee approved an expansion of the 401(k) and individual retirement account programs. Separately, Republicans in the House fell short in their effort to push through a measure that would require a two-thirds vote in each chamber to raise taxes, rather than a simple majority. 
The real debate has been over how big a tax cut is affordable and politically viable, and which components should be included. The prevailing view around the Capitol today was that no deal would be struck on the size of the tax cut or spending levels until next week at the earliest.
Mr. Chafee said the leaders should be careful about increasing the tax cut above the $1.2 trillion over 10 years that the Senate approved three weeks ago. "If we start edging our way up," he said, "we're going to start to lose senators."
There was no indication that Mr. Bush had changed the minds of any of the Democratic senators, but several said they had been impressed by his apparent flexibility.
"He's looking for partnership that's not partisanship," Mr. Nelson said. 
Earlier this month when the budget plan was before the Senate, Mr. Nelson said, the strategy of the White House seemed to be "to pick off one or two of us." That was not his sense at the White House today, Mr. Nelson said. "I felt more comfortable coming out that we would have an opportunity for a solution."
The senators said the president implied that he was looking for a compromise tax cut in the range of $1.4 trillion. 
But none of the senators agreed to accept such a compromise, and aides to several of them said later there was a consensus in the group to stand by their support for nothing bigger than $1.2 trillion.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Pete V. Domenici, right, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, and his House counterpart, Jim Nussle of Iowa, second from right, presided yesterday over the first session of the conference committee that is to reconcile differences between the chambers on the budget. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TAX INCREASES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); US 401K PLANS (60%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (60%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (50%) TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JIM NUSSLE (73%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); BEN NELSON (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); LINCOLN CHAFEE (57%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W; ROSENBAUM, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



743 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: U.S. WOULD DEFEND TAIWAN, BUSH SAYS 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark., April 25 

 BODY:
President Bush, offering a more explicit commitment to Taiwan than his recent predecessors, said in a television interview broadcast today that if the island came under attack from China, he would order "whatever it took" to help Taiwan defend itself. 
 Mr. Bush did not go so far as to say he would send American forces into battle with China. During his presidential campaign, however, he questioned the wisdom of the policy of maintaining "strategic ambiguity" about how the United States would react if hostilities broke out across the Taiwan Strait, and said repeatedly that, in contrast, his administration would be "clear about Taiwan." 
 While the 1979 Taiwan Relations Act commits the United States to help Taiwan defend itself, presidents have deliberately kept vague how they would respond in the case of an armed conflict. The policy was designed so as not to encourage Taiwan to be bolder in its own statements, and to contain the political factions on the island that have argued for declaring independence, a move China says would prompt an armed response. 
Asked on ABC's "Good Morning America" if the United States had an obligation to defend Taiwan if it was attacked by China, Mr. Bush replied: "Yes, we do, and the Chinese must understand that. Yes, I would." 
The interviewer, Charlie Gibson, pressed further, asking, "With the full force of American military?"
Mr. Bush said, "Whatever it took to help Taiwan defend theirself." He did not elaborate.
Mr. Bush's comments seemed to trigger some confusion on Capitol Hill and among China experts over what the president meant and what signal he was sending to Taiwan. But his aides said tonight he had chosen his words quite carefully.
Mr. Bush's national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, who traveled here with Mr. Bush for a Republican fund-raising event, said tonight that he was not changing policy. But she made clear that he was deliberate in his choice of words. "What he said clearly is how seriously and resolutely he takes this obligation," she said. "A secure Taiwan will be better able to engage in a cross-straits dialogue."
The Taiwan Relations Act says: The president is directed to inform the Congress promptly of any threat to the security or the social or economic system of the people on Taiwan and any danger to the interests of the United States arising therefrom. The president and the Congress shall determine, in accordance with constitutional processes, appropriate action by the United States in response to any such danger.
Mr. Bush's statement was part of what his aides say is a "rebalancing" of American policy away from Beijing -- where Mr. Bush's aides believe President Clinton veered -- and back toward Taiwan. 
That is bound to gratify the conservative wing of his party, which has grumbled that his arms sales to Taiwan on Tuesday should have included the sophisticated Aegis radar system. It is also sure to further inflame Beijing. In that regard, it seemed similar to his statements about North Korea in the first weeks of his presidency, when he appeared to turn his back on missile talks that President Clinton had begun, to the discomfort of South Korea's president, Kim Dae Jung, and take a harder line toward the Communist regime in Pyongyang. Those comments essentially froze peace talks between North and South Korea.
Earlier today, Chinese officials denounced Mr. Bush's decision to sell destroyers, submarines, helicopters and other military hardware to Taiwan even though the Aegis had been excluded from the list. Admr. Joseph W. Prueher, the American ambassador to Beijing, was summoned by the deputy foreign minister, Li Zhaoxing, and according to state television was asked to tell Mr. Bush to "immediately withdraw this mistaken decision and stop selling arms to Taiwan to avoid new grave damage to China-U.S. relations."
Mr. Bush's statements about Taiwan came in the course of a series of television interviews marking the approach of his 100th day in office. The interviews were taped at the White House on Tuesday, though they were broadcast just before Mr. Bush came here for a rally in support of his tax plan and his budget.
Within hours of the broadcast the State Department said there had been no change in the American policy. "Our policy hasn't changed today, it didn't change yesterday, and it didn't change last year, it hasn't changed in terms of what we have followed since 1979 with the passage of the Taiwan Relations Act," Philip T. Reeker, a State Department spokesman, told reporters today. "And the president was very clear on our position, and I think he reiterated what we've always said." 
But to many of Mr. Bush's own aides and allies, his statement today sounded much like what George W. Bush the candidate had said, but not what past presidents including his father or American diplomats had said in carefully worded statements.
Until now, the essence of American policy has been to keep the peace by keeping both sides guessing. Presidents from Richard Nixon to Bill Clinton have wanted Beijing to believe that the United States would defend Taiwan, but also to leave Taiwan wondering about the extent of that commitment. Washington has always feared that if the Taiwanese believed the American commitment to their security was ironclad, they would be emboldened in their dealings with Beijing, perhaps to the point of provoking a conflict.
But Mr. Bush's advisers during the campaign said they viewed that policy as outmoded. Taiwan is now a full-fledged democracy, they said, and has elected a longtime opposition leader as the president. Moreover, they argued that Beijing's military buildup in recent years made it imperative for Washington to be more explicit about supporting the island.
Outside experts on China and Asia policy said that while Mr. Bush has changed the language, he may not have changed the understanding of both sides about how the United States would react.
"He covered both sides of the argument," said Richard H. Solomon, president of the United States Institute of Peace, and a longtime Republican foreign policy adviser, though he has not advised this White House.
"He said we'll defend Taiwan, but he doesn't want Taiwan to precipitate a crisis," said Mr. Solomon, referring to comments Mr. Bush made in an interview with CNN today.
Mr. Solomon noted that "the big issue that's not being discussed is whether Taiwan is to be dealt with as a military problem or a political problem." President Nixon, he noted, had converted the Taiwan issue to a political question when he opened up relations with Beijing. Mao said at that time that Taiwan was a long-term problem, taking the immediacy out of the issue of how it might reunify with China.
But during Mr. Clinton's term, the conflict became remilitarized. President Jiang Zemin made it clear, during Taiwan's 1996 presidential election, that China would not wait indefinitely, and triggered a crisis by conducting military tests off Taiwan's coast. Mr. Clinton sent two carriers into the area, though not directly into the Taiwan Strait, as a show of resolve. China backed off.
Mr. Bush's comments triggered an immediate reaction on Capitol Hill. Senator John F. Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat who is considered a possible presidential contender in 2004, took to the Senate floor this afternoon to speak out against Mr. Bush's comment on Taiwan.
"If what the president said is in fact what he means or if it is indeed the new policy of the United States, it has profound implications for our country," Mr. Kerry said. "He made a far-reaching comment this morning on the American defense of Taiwan, a comment that suggests that without any consultation with Congress, without any prior notice to the Congress, that a policy that has been in place for 30 years is now being changed with implications that I believe are serious."
Mr. Kerry said that the United States had never said what it would do if Beijing tried to use force to reclaim Taiwan because "we understood the danger of doing so."
He said that if Mr. Bush had decided to abandon the "so-called strategic ambiguity," it was a "major policy change" that "serves neither our interest nor Taiwan's."
Mr. Kerry noted that any situation that resulted in the use of force across the Taiwan Strait was unlikely to be black and white. "For example, if China attacked in response to what it sees as a Taiwanese provocation would we then respond?" he asked. "Apparently so, according to President Bush."
Representative Gary Ackerman, a New York Democrat and member of the International Relations Committee, said that Mr. Bush had apparently confused a policy of providing Taiwan with defensive weapons with a broader defense commitment.
"Has this become a unilateral defense treaty?" Mr. Ackerman asked. " 'Whatever it takes' means you will do anything to defend Taiwan," Mr. Ackerman said. "Does it mean that if Taiwan attacks China, we are at war with China?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush taking his tax cut plan to the people of New Orleans yesterday, a day dominated by talk of China policy: specifically how the United States would respond if Taiwan came under attack from China. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); FUNDRAISING (71%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (74%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (56%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) ARKANSAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%) TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (98%) TAIWAN; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



744 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 937 words

PERSON: Rev. Leon H. Sullivan 

HEADLINE: Leon Sullivan, 78, Dies; Fought Apartheid 

BYLINE:  By PAUL LEWIS 

 BODY:
The Rev. Leon H. Sullivan, the clergyman and civil rights leader who drew up the Sullivan Principles, guidelines for American businesses operating in South Africa under apartheid, died yesterday in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 78.
 The cause was leukemia, his family said. 
 In 1977, Mr. Sullivan drafted his guidelines to help persuade American companies with investments in South Africa to treat their workers there in the same way that they treated their workers in the United States. He later worked with the United Nations on drawing up a code of ethical conduct for multinational corporations.
As originally stated, the Sullivan Principles called for racial nonsegregation on the factory floor and in company eating and washing facilities; fair employment practices; equal pay for equal work; training for blacks and other nonwhites so they could advance to better jobs; promotion of more blacks and other nonwhites to supervisory positions, and improved housing, schooling, recreation and health facilities for workers.
In an interview in 1999, Mr. Sullivan recalled an experience a quarter of a century before that helped give birth to his effort.
"In 1974 I met with hundreds in South Africa and I realized that apartheid was sinful," he said. "When I was getting on the plane to go home, the police took me to a room and told me to remove my clothes. A man with the biggest .45 I'd ever seen said, 'We do to you what we have to.'
"I stood there in my underwear, thinking, 'I'm the head of the largest black church in Philadelphia and I'm on the board of directors of General Motors. When I get home, I'll do to you what I have to.' " 
In 1984, after Mr. Sullivan had used his position as a member of the board of the General Motors Corporation to persuade virtually all American companies doing business in South Africa to abide by his guidelines, he added several more, saying that American companies should also campaign actively against apartheid, allow black workers full job mobility and provide accommodation closer to work.
By 1987, with apartheid undented by his principles and African leaders like Nelson Mandela still in prison, Mr. Sullivan toughened his approach, urging American corporations to withdraw altogether from South Africa and calling for the United States to impose trade and investment sanctions on that country.
This harsher stance, however, won little support from either the Reagan administration or American business leaders.
In 1999, by now retired as a clergyman, Mr. Sullivan promulgated his own Global Sullivan Principles, ethical guidelines for multinational corporations in the globalized economy; about 100 American corporations have now accepted them.
In this effort, he worked closely with the United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, who that year put forth his own Global Compact, another set of ethical guidelines for multinational corporations based on accepted United Nations principles.
Although the Sullivan Principles skirt such labor issues as the right to collective bargaining, the United Nations has accepted them as a practical attempt to put its ideals into practice.
Leon Howard Sullivan was born on Oct. 16, 1922, in Charleston, W. Va. He was brought up by his grandmother after his young parents separated. 
At the age of 10 he conducted a private desegregation drive in his hometown after being told he could not sit at a drugstore counter while drinking a soft drink. He won a first victory when the owner of a segregated restaurant offered him a free meal.
While he was still in the South, he met the Rev. Adam Clayton Powell, who was on a lecture tour. Several years later, he introduced Mr. Sullivan to the Abyssinian Baptist Church in New York with the announcement, "I can take a young man from the hills who looks like he never wore a pair of shoes in his life and make him a leader!"
After graduating from West Virginia State University, he studied theology at Union Theological Seminary in New York and sociology at Columbia, meanwhile working as a coin-box collector for the Bell Telephone Company, the first black to hold such a job. 
In 1945 he married the former Grace Banks and spent the next five years as pastor of the First Baptist Church in South Orange, N.J. In 1950 he became pastor of the Zion Baptist Church in Philadelphia. Here he and other black pastors started a Selective Patronage Program, under which they boycotted enterprises that failed to provide employment for minorities. The highly successful program was copied in many other cities.
In 1962 he founded Zion Investment Associates, a cooperative organization that began investing in profit-making ventures. From modest beginnings it went on to create major real estate ventures, a garment manufacturing company and Progress Aerospace Enterprises, the first black-owned aerospace company.
In 1964 he set up the first in a series of training schools, calling it the Opportunities Industrialization Center. By 1969 about 20,000 minority workers were enrolled in O.I.C.'s around the country.
In 1971 he joined the board of General Motors, the company's first black director. He was instrumental in expanding black employment and creating more black dealerships. He was awarded honorary degrees by Dartmouth, Princeton and Swarthmore, among dozens of other colleges.
In 1988 Mr. Sullivan retired from Zion Baptist Church, moved to Phoenix, and began building bridges between Africa and black America, organizing a series of African and African-American summit meetings, with the first held in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, in 1991.
He is survived by his wife and three children, Howard, Julie and Hope. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Leon H. Sullivan, who wrote guidelines calling on American companies to treat their workers in South Africa under apartheid as they did workers in the United States, shown with President Carter in 1980. (United Press International/Corbis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); ETHICS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (73%); LEUKEMIA (72%); EQUAL PAY (54%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (65%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (65%)

JIMMY CARTER (50%) SULLIVAN, LEON H (REV); LEWIS, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); SOUTH AFRICA (95%); AFRICA (79%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism; Religion 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



745 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Giuliani's Risky Budget 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph Giuliani's proposed $39.5 billion budget for the next fiscal year came with a note of caution yesterday. The huge surpluses of recent years cannot be counted on in the future, Mr. Giuliani said, and expenditures for next year will have to be kept under tight control. Unfortunately, the mayor's spending plan does not heed his own advice. Mr. Giuliani would cut taxes and increase spending so heavily that the next New York City mayor, to be elected in November, will immediately face annual deficits approaching $3 billion in following years. Mr. Giuliani and the City Council need to avoid leaving such a damaging legacy. 
 Mr. Giuliani's budget was largely foreshadowed by a financial plan he presented in January. In one new development, the mayor said that the city was "very, very close" to completing negotiations for city financing of new stadiums for the Yankees and the Mets, and possibly for the Jets on the west side of Manhattan. But before endorsing any grand spending plans, New Yorkers need a fuller explanation of the possible precariousness of city finances should the economic slowdown turn much worse. 
 Good times have brought a budget surplus in the current year of $2.8 billion, which Mr. Giuliani irresponsibly proposes to use to plug the deficit next year, putting off for the next mayor the tough decisions about the future. Most of the projected deficits down the road result from the fact that the recent labor settlement with the biggest municipal employees' union, calling for 4 percent annual wage increases, would cost $2 billion next year if applied to all city workers. Unfortunately, Mr. Giuliani did not get any promises from the work force to improve productivity. He would compound the problem ahead by cutting taxes now and letting future mayors find the money for vital services.
An air of unreality about the city's fiscal future is not a problem for Mr. Giuliani alone. The major mayoral candidates are all calling for more spending without saying where the money would come from. In his budget yesterday, Mr. Giuliani again used a bookkeeping gimmick to promote the fiction that he is cutting spending next year. In fact, according to the city's Independent Budget Office, spending would go up 4.4 percent under his budget. It is likely to go up even more because the City Council will almost certainly restore some of the mayor's proposed spending cuts for health, youth services, cultural institutions and libraries.
In his final budget presentation as mayor, Mr. Giuliani said his proudest achievement was keeping expenditures under control and cutting taxes by more than $3 billion a year. It has indeed been an impressive accomplishment, aided significantly by the good fortune of an economic boom, particularly on Wall Street. With rougher economic weather ahead, this should be a time to reassess spending, demand greater productivity from the work force and rethink automatic new rounds of tax cuts. The candidates for mayor should level with the voters that a harsh new reality may lie just ahead. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LABOR FORCE (87%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); TAX LAW (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (66%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; MAYORS 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (56%); NEW YORK JETS (56%); NEW YORK YANKEES (56%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (92%) GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



746 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
E.D.S. Says Its Earnings Met Estimates Of Analysts

BYLINE:  By CHRIS GAITHER 

 BODY:
Saying it felt little of the pain inflicted on its competitors during the economic slowdown, the Electronic Data Systems Corporation reported first-quarter earnings yesterday that met Wall Street's expectations and announced that it expected to do so for the rest of the year.
 E.D.S., a computer service company based in Plano, Tex., said its businesses remained strong in the United States, Europe and Asia in the quarter, which ended March 31. The company said it signed $7.5 billion in contracts in the first three months of the year, the ninth consecutive quarter of record signings. 
 The company reported earnings, excluding one-time gains and charges, of $268.1 million, or 56 cents a share, a 19 percent increase from the period a year before, when it earned 47 cents a share. The quarter produced the eighth consecutive double-digit increase in earnings growth. Analysts had expected earnings of 55 to 59 cents, with a consensus of 56 cents, according to Thomson Financial/First Call.
Including a change in its accounting principle and a one-time investment gain of $315.5 million, E.D.S. earned 93 cents a share. Revenue was $5 billion, compared with $4.6 billion in the quarter last year.
In a conference call filled with congratulations by analysts, a rare sound in recent times, Richard H. Brown, the company's chief executive, said he was comfortable with Wall Street's projections for the current quarter and the full year. Analysts expect earnings of 62 cents this quarter and $2.64 for the year, according to First Call.
Mr. Brown said E.D.S. had benefited from the general slowdown in the economy. During the boom, companies hired E.D.S. to help them grow. Today, he said, they hire E.D.S. to streamline their operations and cut operating costs.
"The way we're attacking the market is different today than it was a year ago," Mr. Brown said in an interview. "While E.D.S. is not immune to economic cycles, we are well insulated against the down market."
E.D.S. said that Information Solutions, its outsourcing division and core business, grew 20 percent in the quarter. The company's systems-integration consulting business, E.Solutions, grew 38 percent. Mr. Brown said E.Solutions had benefited from a shakeout in small Internet consulting firms.
But E.D.S. said revenue from its single largest customer, General Motors, declined 7 percent, from $856 million to $791 million, a steeper drop than expected. Revenue from its consulting division, A. T. Kearney, also declined 4 percent.
Adam B. Frisch, an analyst with UBS Warburg, praised Mr. Brown and his management team for improving the company since taking over two years ago. But Mr. Frisch said the stock was trading near the high end of its 52-week peak in expectations of strong quarters, and the General Motors and A. T. Kearney declines indicate that E.D.S. is not as insulated from the general economy at it might say.
"No company is an island unto itself," Mr. Frisch said.
Shares in E.D.S. fell 28 cents, to $63.27, in regular trading, but rose as high as $65 in after-hours trading. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); OUTSOURCING (77%); SYSTEMS INTEGRATION (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); INTERNET & WWW (60%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (92%); COMPUTER SERVICE CO INC (72%); COMPUTER SERVICES CO (72%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); H BROWN LTD (67%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ELECTRONIC DATA SYSTEMS CORP 

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (92%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (72%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (72%); SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (67%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%) SIC7374 DATA PROCESSING SERVICES; 

PERSON: GAITHER, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001 



747 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE ART 

BYLINE:  By Carol Vogel 

 BODY:
Partnership Dissolved
 A year ago, after much fanfare, the Museum of Modern Art in Manhattan and the Tate Gallery in London announced a partnership to create an Internet business for art, culture and design. But this week, in a news release about the venture's new president, the Modern let it slip that the partnership had dissolved. 
 "We've decided to continue alone and are happy to do so," said Glenn D. Lowry, director of the Modern.
Sir Nicholas Serota, director of the Tate, said this wasn't the time to proceed with a costly, not to mention risky, venture. "Our decision was based on a combination of the economy and the way in which the Internet itself is developing," he said. "It just didn't seem like a sensible move." He added that the Tate planned to go on developing its nonprofit Web site. 
The Modern is steaming ahead, though the site has changed direction. Rather than focusing heavily on e-commerce, selling products like furniture, design objects and books, it will be more heavily tipped toward educational and editorial content. Because it is a business venture, it will operate separately from the museum, and profits are to be channeled back to help pay the Modern's escalating expenses.
The news that the museum was going it alone came as it announced the appointment of Steven Henry Madoff as the venture's president and editorial director. He has most recently been editorial director of Time Inc. Interactive, responsible for the company's Web properties.

Atrium Attractions
Now that the $151 million expansion of its York Avenue headquarters is complete, Sotheby's has decided to transform its nine-story atrium into a showcase for site-specific contemporary art.
When Christie's completed its Rockefeller Center headquarters two years ago, it commissioned Sol LeWitt to create a mural for the three-story entrance. Sotheby's, on the other hand, is implementing a program called "Art in the Atrium," inviting artists to create works that will be on view for six months.
This week a series of 20 wood lamps 30 inches tall will cascade down the glass-filled atrium. The lamps are the work of Jorge Pardo, the Cuban artist who has tranformed the ground floor of the Dia Center for the Arts in Chelsea with brightly colored tilework. 
"I wanted the first artist to be someone who deals with architecture," said Tobias Meyer, Sotheby's director of contemporary art worldwide.
Sotheby's said it planned to commission artists to conceive works, and then the Art Production Fund, a nonprofit arts organization in Manhattan, is to organize the projects and see them to completion. After an exhibition the artwork goes back to the artist.
Sotheby's said it planned to pay an undisclosed fee to each artist as well as production costs. If the artist sells his work, Sotheby's is to be reimbursed for the cost of production.
"Since we are a building about art," Mr. Meyer said, "I wanted to express it right at the entrance."

Renaissance Beauties
Although scholars have been fascinated with female Renaissance portraits for decades, no museum exhibition has explored the subject. Of particular interest is the century from 1440 to 1540 in Florence, where portraits no longer depicted only rulers and their consorts but also women of the merchant class whose faces adorned scores of panel paintings, medals and busts by artists like Leonardo, Botticelli and Pontormo.
Now the National Gallery of Art in Washington has put together 47 portraits of women -- paintings, drawings and sculptures -- that are the subject of "Virtue and Beauty: Ginevra de' Benci and Renaissance Portraits of Women," to run from Sept. 30 to Jan. 6. The show will not travel to other museums.
David Brown, curator of Italian Renaissance paintings at the National Gallery, said, "Originally I was going to do a small, focus exhibition on Leonardo's 'Ginevra de' Benci,' " a painting in the gallery's permanent collection. "I had gotten two spectacular loans, one a drawing of Ginevra's hands from Windsor Castle and the other a marble bust by Verrocchio that was clearly Leonardo's model for the painting." But further investigation made it clear that a survey of the century's portraits was needed, he said.
The title of the exhibition was taken from the phrase "beauty adorns virtue," an inscription on the back of the "Ginevra de' Benci."
"The same language was used in a lot of portraits," Mr. Brown said. "It was this paradoxical link between female virtue and female beauty that is the core of the exhibition."
Also at the heart of the show are the social history of the time, when portraiture was still a new genre of painting. Outside Florence, a woman had to be the wife or daughter of a ruler to have her portrait painted.
Most of the works on view are bridal portraits. "Because these women were not famous, we don't know a lot about who commissioned them," Mr. Brown said. "Probably they were commissioned by the husbands or by the bride's family. But we know little about the circumstances or the sitters because they weren't great ladies."
The show will underscore the point that these Renaissance portraits are far different from today's. They are not direct likenesses that try to reveal the inner nature of their subjects but paradigms of the ideal woman. Most women were shown with beautiful long necks, golden hair, pearly white skin, sparkling blue eyes and rosy lips and cheeks: the canon of beauty as derived from literature of the time.
One example is a Botticelli portrait of Simonetta Vespucci, a cousin by marriage of Amerigo Vespucci, the Italian explorer for whom America was named. She died from consumption at 23 and became known as the paragon of idealized beauty.
In the United States a huge vogue for these works started when J. P. Morgan bought Ghirlandaio's portrait of Giovanna degli Albizzi Tornabuoni, wife of a Medici banker. The painting, which the Morgan Library sold to Baron Thyssen in 1935, is now in the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum in Madrid.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Detail of a Botticelli, among the Renaissance portraits in Washington. (National Gallery of Art) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (72%); SALES & SELLING (67%) ART; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (85%); TIME INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (84%) TATE GALLERY (LONDON); MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC); SOTHEBY'S; NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (WASHINGTON, DC) 

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%)

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



748 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 YEN FALLS. The yen sank after the International Monetary Fund's chief economist said a further drop would not be a cause for concern. In New York, the dollar settled at 123.16 yen, up from 122.22 yen on Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the yen to the dollar, since November 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAPANESE YEN (90%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (59%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



749 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Chemical Weapons Ban May Suffer for Lack of Dues From Treaty's Parties 

BYLINE:  By JUDITH MILLER 

 BODY:
The international organization charged with verifying the 1997 treaty that bans chemical weapons is in debt and may be forced to cut inspections in half this year because the United States and other key parties to the treaty have not paid their way, arms control experts said Wednesday. 
 Ron G. Manley, director of verification for the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which is charged with implementing the treaty and ridding the world of chemical weapons, said in an interview that the United States, Russia and other member states were largely responsible for the financial crunch by failing to pay their annual assessments on time and failing to reimburse the group for inspections and other activities. 
 As a result, he said, the organization -- which is based in The Hague, spends about $60 million a year and employs about 500 people -- ran a deficit of $4 million in 2000, and expects a shortfall this year of $5.5 million. 
Mr. Manley said that even with belt-tightening and other economies, the group would probably be able to conduct only 60 to 80 of the 140 inspections planned for this year. 
Earlier predictions about the budget crisis were far more dire. In an internal memorandum in January, Jose M. Bustani, the organization's director general, warned that his group would only be able to conduct 25 inspections of chemical plants this year. 
Mr. Manley discussed the budget crisis and other problems confronting the organization in an interview and at a conference Wednesday in Washington that debated the record of the treaty, which was circulated for signatures in 1993 and entered into force in 1997. The conference was sponsored by the American branch of Green Cross International, a nongovernmental group based in Geneva and headed by former Russian president Mikhail S. Gorbachev. 
Meanwhile, a report on the chemical weapons treaty by the Monterey Institute of International Studies, scheduled to be released yesterday, concludes that while the treaty can claim "significant accomplishments" in recruiting new member states, identifying weapons stockpiles and beginning to destroy them, the United States, during the Clinton administration, undermined the treaty in several important ways. 
Jonathan B. Tucker, the editor of the 72-page report, said that the treaty had yet to fulfill its promise "in large part because of a lack of U.S. leadership." 
Analysts who contributed to the study agreed that the Clinton administration diluted the treaty by, among other things, creating unilateral exemptions to its terms and failing to demand inspections in countries like Iran, which it has accused of violating the treaty. 
The previous administration, concluded Amy E. Smithson, a chemical weapons expert and senior associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center in Washington, "made a mockery" of the treaty by establishing what she called "a separate set of rules for the United States." For instance, Congress gave United States presidents the right to refuse an inspection on grounds that it could "pose a threat" to national security and provided that samples collected during inspections on American soil had to be analyzed by laboratories in the United States. Washington was also three years late in declaring a list of America's chemical factories that could be inspected, the authors noted. 
The report criticizes Russia's implementation of the treaty as well. Alexander A. Pikayev, a scholar at the Carnegie Endowment's center in Moscow, concludes that even if Moscow finds enough money to fulfill its pledge to destroy the 40,000 metric tons of chemical weapons it admits to having produced, which Mr. Tucker calls the world's largest stockpile, Russia might still be "unable to meet its obligations under the treaty." Because of its financial plight and delays in its chemical weapons destruction program, Russia missed the deadline to eliminate one percent of its chemical weapons stocks by April 29, 2000.
John D. Holum, the undersecretary of state for arms control in the Clinton administration, disagreed with the report's conclusions, saying the Clinton team had fought hard, if somewhat belatedly, for the treaty's ratification. The administration was forced to accept the unilateral exemptions to the inspection system to win ratification, he said. In response to the assertion of failing to pay dues on time, Mr. Holum said the United States angered most international organizations by paying dues not in January, when they are due, but at the beginning of the fiscal year some nine months later.
An official in the Bush administration who asked not to be identified said the administration strongly supports the Chemical Weapons Convention and its implementation. 
The official -- noting that the United States still pays the highest dues of the 143 states that have signed and ratified the treaty -- said the administration was "working hard" to find money to reimburse the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons for verification activities. He said that Congress had provided no money for this purpose in fiscal 1999 or fiscal 2000. 
The official also noted that the administration had paid about two-thirds of its 2001 assessment. "It is not our intention to undermine this treaty," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (93%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); INTERVIEWS (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (64%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (63%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%) BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TREATIES; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: GREEN CROSS INTERNATIONAL INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR THE PROHIBITION OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS (83%) ORGANIZATION FOR THE PROHIBITION OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS 

PERSON: MANLEY, RON G; MILLER, JUDITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (56%) UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NETHERLANDS (56%); SWITZERLAND (53%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



750 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: New Jobless Claims Rise Sharply, And So Does the Cost of Labor 

BYLINE:  Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 26 

 BODY:
The number of Americans filing for first-time unemployment benefits rose last week to the highest level in five years, while employment costs climbed in the first quarter, the Labor Department said today.
 Analysts said the reports suggested a weakening job market and more pressure on corporate profit -- both trends that might encourage the Federal Reserve to further cut interest rates in hopes of bolstering the economy. 
 The number of Americans seeking jobless benefits last week rose to 408,000 from 390,000 in the previous week, the Labor Department said. It was the highest level since March 23, 1996, when claims reached 428,000. 
The four-week moving average, which is considered a more reliable barometer of employment conditions, rose to 394,500, the highest in eight and a half years and the fourth consecutive weekly gain.
"That is a sign of weakness," said Bill Cheney, chief economist at John Hancock Financial Services in Boston.
The Federal Reserve has reduced the benchmark short-term interest rate by half a percentage point four times this year -- a total of two percentage points, to 4.5 percent now. Many think that the Fed will again cut rates at its next meeting, on May 15.
The Labor Department also reported that its cost index, a broad gauge of what employers pay in wages, salaries and benefits, rose 1.1 percent in the three months ended in March, matching expectations. The gain was higher than the 0.9 percent advance in the fourth quarter and amounted to a 4.1 percent increase in the 12 months from March 2000.
"Labor costs are rising," said Paul Kasriel, chief economist of Northern Trust. "Productivity is not rising that rapidly. That means that corporations are seeing their profit margins squeezed from the higher labor costs and energy costs."
A separate survey by the National Association for Business Economics released today found that spending by companies on capital improvements rose in the first quarter at the slowest pace since 1992. The organization's index of capital spending fell to zero from 20 in the fourth quarter of 2000.
The group also said that 55 percent of the 131 members polled this month estimated economic growth of 1 percent or less in the first half of this year. In January, only 10 percent of members surveyed expected growth of less than 1 percent.
The government's report on the gross domestic product for the first quarter will be released on Friday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (69%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (53%)

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



751 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Ukraine Parliament Dismisses Cabinet, in Blow to Reformists 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 26 

 BODY:
Ukraine's political crisis mounted today as Parliament voted overwhelmingly to dismiss Prime Minister Viktor Yushchenko and his government, dealing a blow to the pro-reform movement that Mr. Yushchenko brought into office in December 1999.
 The vote of 263 to 59 marked the end of an uneasy alliance between the prime minister and President Leonid D. Kuchma, the former Soviet rocket factory manager who has governed the country as prime minister and then president since 1994. 
 No successor to the ousted prime minister was appointed. The loss of Mr. Yushchenko at the helm of Ukraine's reform program is likely to jeopardize the support of international lending institutions for the former Soviet republic, a country the size of France that lies strategically between Russia and the rest of Europe and is the one of the largest recipients of American aid. The ouster occurred on the 15th anniversary of the nuclear accident at Chernobyl, whose effects -- in terms of increased illness and radiation contamination -- are said by Ukrainian officials to grow more acute with each year, even as the government lacks funds to deal with the legacy of the catastrophe. 
The no-confidence vote raises the question of whether the dumping of Mr. Yushchenko, orchestrated in large part by Mr. Kuchma and his parliamentary allies over the last year, will drive the popular prime minister to become the standard-bearer of the opposition that seems eager to form around him. The United States has distanced itself from Mr. Kuchma in recent months.
"Democracy in Ukraine has suffered a serious defeat," Mr. Yushchenko said after the stormy meeting of the Parliament. "I am not abandoning politics. I am going away in order to come back." 
The key to his ouster was the decision by Ukraine's Communist deputies, who hold about a quarter of the 450 seats, to join the coalition of oligarch-led parties and Mr. Kuchma's core supporters to shape a new majority. 
As Parliament voted, a crowd estimated at 10,000 Yushchenko supporters -- one of the largest since demonstrations began in Kiev last winter -- chanted "Yushchenko!" and called for Mr. Kuchma's impeachment. A peaceful crowd of about 3,000 people tried to march on Mr. Kuchma's residence, Ukrainian news agencies said, but was blocked by police lines. 
Today's vote is also the culmination of political conflict that intensified last fall with the release of secret recordings made of Mr. Kuchma's private conversations in office. They revealed in graphic and earthy terms his disdain for democracy, freedom of the press and for Mr. Yushchenko's popularity as a pro-Western reformer.
Mr. Yushchenko, 47, an affable former central banker with a slightly ponderous political style, has no natural political base, and Mr. Kuchma sits astride a powerful and well-financed patronage machine that enforces discipline from the national police down to the village chief.
Still, Mr. Yushchenko represents the strongest potential challenger to Mr. Kuchma's rule as parliamentary and presidential elections approach in 2002 and 2003 and as Mr. Kuchma's image in the West flags. Indeed, Mr. Kuchma and his parliamentary allies have hired public relations and lobbying advisers in Washington in recent months to halt the slide in support for his leadership.
The crisis has sent thousands of protesters into the streets since December. It has destabilized -- until today -- any working majority in Parliament, and galvanized a significant coalition of opposition parties under the "Ukraine without Kuchma" banner demanding that Mr. Kuchma resign and call early presidential elections, which he has refused to do.
A key element, which has thrown Mr. Kuchma on the defensive and prompted him to fire his intelligence and security chiefs, was the disappearance of muck-raking journalist Georgy Gongadze in September. Mr. Gongadze's name became linked to Mr. Kuchma after tape recordings made by a presidential bodyguard indicated that the Ukrainian leader had placed the journalist under surveillance and had instructed security forces to "get rid" of him. A headless body, believed to be that of Mr. Gongadze though that is still in dispute, turned up outside the capital, Kiev, in November.
Mr. Kuchma's top security assistants have hampered and delayed the investigation. 
A former presidential bodyguard, Mykola Melnychenko, who says he was motivated by outrage and patriotism in the face of Mr. Kuchma's alleged involvement in corruption, recorded hundreds of hours of Mr. Kuchma's conversations. He then fled to Europe in November and has released the recordings piecemeal ever since. 
This month Mr. Melnychenko and his family were granted political asylum in the United States, a fact Mr. Kuchma's supporters have used to bolster their allegations that the 63-year-old leader's troubles are the result of a conspiracy from abroad.
Mr. Yushchenko, for his part, has appeared eager to champion clean government and economic reform as he also tried to confront Ukraine's endemic and rampant corruption problems. In doing so, Mr. Yushchenko has garnered a national following that has yet to be tested in a popular election.
He has also profited from the stormy confrontation between his former deputy prime minister, Yulia Timoshenko, and the barons of Ukraine's notoriously corrupt state-run energy industries. Ms. Timoshenko, who made her own fortune in the murky gas market, entered Mr. Yushchenko's cabinet last year vowing to bring order to Ukraine's most vital sector, triggering clashes with some of Mr. Kuchma's closest allies.
For her efforts, she was first fired, in January, then arrested in February and charged with corruption in her business dealings. A judge then ordered her release. She is now a leading member of the opposition.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Viktor Yushchenko minutes after Ukraine's Parliament ousted him. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (76%); TRENDS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (68%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); FOREIGN LENDING (55%); CENTRAL BANKS (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (92%) YUSHCHENKO, VIKTOR; KUCHMA, LEONID (PRES); TYLER, PATRICK E 

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) UKRAINE (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) UKRAINE

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



752 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Blue-Chip Shares Climb, but Technology Suffers Setback

BYLINE:  By Reuters

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks rose yesterday as investors' hopes for another interest rate cut grew, but technology shares fell on persistent uncertainty about earnings prospects.
 Economic data released yesterday showed that the number of Americans seeking first-time unemployment benefits rose last week to its highest level in more than five years. Analysts suggested that the report would encourage the Federal Reserve to lower rates further at its next meeting on May 15. 
 "The unemployment rate is going to be rising," said Barry Hyman, chief investment strategist at Ehrenkrantz King Nussbaum. "But it's giving more room for the Fed to continue doing what they have to do, which is cut rates in May. And they will do that." 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 67.15 points, or 0.63 percent, to end at 10,692.35, and the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 5.77 points, or 0.47 percent, at 1,234.52.
The Nasdaq composite index fell 24.92 points, or 1.21 percent, to 2,034.88, after rising 1.5 percent earlier. Investors received a promising outlook from WorldCom but a gloomy forecast from Qualcomm.
Robert Parry, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, put a damper on bullish sentiment yesterday, saying he expected the turnaround in the sluggish economy would take longer than thought. He said the economy would grow at a faster pace by year's end.
This prompted some investors to book profits from the recent surge in technology stocks, which had taken the Nasdaq market up by more than 30 percent after it hit a two-year low early this month on bleak corporate earnings news.
"Parry is reminding us that we are not out of the woods yet," Tom Sparico, stock trader at Bengal Partners in Stamford, Conn., said.
The economic slump is leading to layoffs nationwide. The Labor Department said initial jobless claims rose 18,000, to 408,000, for the April 21 week, the highest level in five years.
The Dow was helped by a surge in interest-rate-influenced financial stocks. Among Dow stocks, American Express rose 80 cents, to $41.90.
General Electric moved up $1.49, to $49.30, and its merger partner Honeywell International climbed $1.68, to $49.19.
G.E.'s chairman, John F. Welch Jr., said late on Wednesday that he was confident 2001 would be a record year for the company and that the proposed acquisition of Honeywell, currently under review by European competition officials, should be completed by July. 
Investors have been scouring corporate scorecards this week -- the busiest period of the earnings season -- for hints the economy is recovering after the Fed's four rate cuts this year. Numerous upbeat earnings reports came from energy companies as they benefited from sharply higher oil and natural gas prices. 
Among those, Halliburton, the oil field services company, jumped $3.51, to $42.13, as its operating profits more than tripled. BJ Services soared $3.58, to $79.48, after its international revenue helped push earnings sharply higher.
The surge in oil shares also came as United States gasoline futures hovered at new post-Gulf War highs as worries lingered that gasoline supplies may not be adequate to prevent price spikes this summer as the driving season starts.
WorldCom, the No. 2 long-distance phone company, posted profits that were in line with forecasts and stood by its 2001 revenue estimates, notable in a time when many telecommunications companies have cut growth estimates sharply. WorldCom rose 35 cents, to $19.74.
But Qualcomm added some gloom to the market with a drop of nearly 8 percent, or $4.87, to $58.05. The company, a wireless technology giant, posted earnings that matched expectations, but warned that future earnings would miss forecasts in a weak global economy.
Treasury bond prices snapped three days of losses yesterday.
The 10-year Treasury note rose 21/32, to a price of 98 22/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from price, fell to 5.17 percent from 5.26 percent on Wednesday. The 30-year Treasury bond surged 1, to 95 12/32. Its yield fell to 5.70 percent from 5.77 percent on Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Tax-Exempt Yields"Chart shows average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly since December.(Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MERGERS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); LAYOFFS (72%); BOND MARKETS (69%); ACQUISITIONS (64%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (64%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (68%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%); QUALCOMM INC (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (51%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (58%); VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (55%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); HON (NYSE) (51%); HON (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (68%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (68%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (51%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: JACK WELCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



753 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Independence In Computers Is I.B.M. Goal

BYLINE:  By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
I.B.M. said yesterday that it planned to invest billions of dollars over the next few years in an effort to design computers and networking products that would adjust to changing workloads, recognize faults and repair themselves without human intervention.
 Many of the investments involve projects already under way. Nevertheless, industry analysts said that I.B.M.'s vision, called Project Eliza, is expected to encourage Big Blue's diverse units to focus on the problem and invest more resources. 
 "Several vendors are attacking this from different directions, but I.B.M. is trying to take it to the next step," said Thomas Bittman, a consultant with Gartner Inc. in Stamford, Conn. But what people outside the company would like to see, he said, is I.B.M.'s road map for creating specific product plans and the timetables for delivering them. 
I.B.M. has long been known for pushing the frontiers of machine intelligence. One prominent example was the construction of Deep Blue, the supercomputer that defeated Garry Kasparov, the international chess champion, in 1997.
In recent years, Irving Wladawsky-Berger (pronounced law-DAW-skee berger), I.B.M.'s top hardware technology strategist, became acquainted with the intense interest of government security and systems experts in self-monitoring and healing systems through his participation on the President's Information Technology Advisory Council. And I.B.M.'s research arm had already singled out such technology -- autonomous computing, in the jargon of engineers -- as a major focus for its work.
But, Mr. Wladawsky-Berger said, the company's decision to accelerate efforts to create new self-managing computers and systems grew out of work with big customers that had invested heavily in electronic commerce, an area I.B.M. has identified as the linchpin of its future growth.
Those customers told I.B.M. their No. 1 concern was the growing gap between the amount of technology they had to manage and the number of skilled workers available to do the job.
"There's a ridiculously tiny number of people that really understand what it takes to keep an e-business alive," said Daniel Kaberon, computer resource manager for Hewitt Associates, a human resources consulting company based in Lincolnshire, Ill.
I.B.M. said Hewitt and other members of its Advanced E-Business Council, which includes computer users as varied as Verizon, United Parcel Service and major banks, have said they face a triple-pronged onslaught: rapid growth in the power and sophistication of the processors and data storage equipment they oversee; links to more and more sources of electronic activity inside and outside their companies; and an explosion in the variety of electronic devices.
I.B.M. said the situation was bound to get worse. "Our customers will have roughly 10 to 20 times more technology to manage over the next five years," Mr. Wladawsky-Berger said.
Designing computers for an Internet-driven economy is a major challenge.
"The Internet requires computers to survive much more unpredictable environments than in the past," Mr. Wladawsky-Berger said. "This is a very tough problem."
I.B.M. said that building much more intelligence into machines had become feasible in recent years because new designs for microchips pack previously unimaginable computing power into compact spaces. Now companies like I.B.M. can use some of that capacity for subsystems that monitor electronic behavior and traffic precisely, recognize troubling or foreign patterns and respond appropriately.
For example, Mr. Wladawsky-Berger said, the primary defense system against attempts to disrupt service that is used by I.B.M. and others these days is a software barrier known as a firewall. But I.B.M. is aiming toward something more like the human immune system, with its blood components that find and identify foreign bodies and others that disable them.
In the nearer term, portions of the project will focus on hastening the deployment of technology already used in I.B.M. mainframes into cheaper computers, which often operate in clusters. I.B.M. said the expertise it had accumulated in building mainframes that work for years without failing and with minimal supervision should give it an advantage in building adaptive behavior into less complex equipment. Mr. Wladawsky-Berger went so far as to claim a 10-year lead in the field.
Other vendors scoffed, naturally. "Hewlett-Packard shares the vision I.B.M. is articulating, and it has been a factor in our designs for the past year," said John Miller, a server marketing executive with Hewlett. Mr. Miller noted, for example, that Hewlett's recently introduced Superdome server computer is designed to furnish status reports continuously from the customer's site to Hewlett-Packard's monitoring center. That center can recognize small data-handling errors that could lead to larger problems, and have them fixed before the device breaks down. Increasingly, Mr. Miller said, the fixes will be automated.
Mr. Kaberon of Hewitt Associates said I.B.M. was in the lead in pursuing self-management for complex systems because it has to be. Unlike other vendors, it sells and supports computers with a wide variety of operating systems, as well as both internal and external software applications, he said. "I.B.M. has greater insight because they have a bigger problem," Mr. Kaberon said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (86%); ENGINEERING (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); HUMAN RESOURCES (61%); DATA STORAGE DEVICES (60%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (53%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: GARTNER INC (83%); AON HEWITT (81%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP 

TICKER: IT (NYSE) (83%); VZC (LSE) (54%); VZ (NYSE) (54%); UPS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (81%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (81%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (51%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (51%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; SIC7373 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES; 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



754 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Backs Aid to Turkey Tied to Economic Overhaul 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 26 

 BODY:
The United States has pledged to support a fresh $10 billion emergency aid package for Turkey's troubled economy, but Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill has warned the nation's leaders that they will not receive any more international assistance if their latest economic overhaul plan fails, people involved in the negotiations said today.
 The warning is an early example of the Bush administration's vow to practice tough love during emerging-market financial crises. Mr. O'Neill and other senior Bush administration officials have criticized the Clinton administration for backing repeated bailouts of economies in crisis, often with meager results. 
 The International Monetary Fund is preparing to announce that it and the World Bank, its sister agency, will loan Turkey about $10 billion to support a new round of market-oriented changes to its financial system. The new loan program comes just two months after the fund arranged an $11.5 billion rescue package for Turkey, but the nation has continued to experience financial turmoil. 
Mr. O'Neill played an active role in arranging the terms of the fund's latest aid package, reflecting the importance of Turkey as a sizable emerging market and a strategic ally that is a member of NATO. But Mr. O'Neill warned Kemal Dervis, Turkey's economy minister, that he should design the nation's economic program carefully because the international safety net would be withdrawn after this round of aid.
"The U.S. has made clear that it's three strikes and you're out," said one person involved in the negotiations. The latest aid package would be Turkey's third from international lending agencies in recent months.
As one sign that the flow of aid money to Turkey is limited, the Bush administration has declined to offer the nation any direct aid to go along with the fund's program. The United States, European nations and Japan often provide bilateral assistance on top of loans from the fund as a way of demonstrating broad international involvement in a financial rescue, though the fund's money comes largely from taxpayers in the leading industrial nations.
Under pressure from the Bush administration, the fund also has demanded that Turkey enact a series of economic and financial changes before the fund's board of directors formally votes on whether to approve the new loan package, people involved in the talks said.
The fund often makes such changes conditions of its loans. But the Turkey package puts an unusual emphasis on what the fund calls prior actions, meaning that none of the aid money will be distributed until promised changes are implemented by government officials and Parliament. In previous bailouts, the fund often begins distributing aid quickly, though it sometimes suspends a loan program if a client nation fails to adhere to its reform plan.
To receive the $10 billion in new loans, Turkey has agreed to a list of 15 major changes to its financial and economic system, the people involved in the negotiations said. They include a plan to make the central bank more independent of politicians, allow its currency, the lira, to float freely on international markets, restructure its troubled banking systems, reduce government spending, and arrange more privatization of state-owned companies.
Though the fund has yet to release the details of the aid package, the promised changes in Turkey are typical of fund programs during the Clinton administration. The fund often demands austerity measures combined with market-oriented financial overhauls as the price of its assistance.
Turkey has been hobbled by political and economic turmoil for months. The lira, which began trading without limits in international markets two months ago, has lost half its value. And confidence in the banking system has plummeted amid charges of political corruption.
The instability has severely damaged the reputation of Turkey, which had embarked on an ambitious program to bring its economy up to European standards in preparation for joining the European Union.
Turkey's difficulties are expected to be a major topic of discussion this weekend, when world finance ministers gather in Washington to discuss the world economy. They will also review operations of the fund and the World Bank. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (71%); APPROVALS (70%) FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC); KAHN, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%) TURKEY

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



755 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING 

 BODY:
 UNITED NATIONS

ANNAN CLOSER TO RE-ELECTION
China has given its backing to a second term for Secretary General Kofi Annan, making it virtually certain that the Security Council will recommend his re-election by the General Assembly in the fall. Diplomats had seen China as the only possible holdout among the five veto-wielding council members, on the argument that it was Asia's turn to hold the office. The United States and France have supported him; Britain and Russia are expected to do so also. Barbara Crossette (NYT)

AUDITORS CLEAR DRUG CZAR
A team of British auditors for the United Nations has cleared Pino Arlacchi, the head of the organization's anti-narcotics office, of charges of impropriety made by a former associate and some politicians in Europe. But the report faulted his office, the United Nations Drug Control Program, in Vienna, for some lapses in recruitment procedures and handling of travel expenses, as well as overambitious programs begun before money was available to see them through. Two other reports on his office are due in coming weeks from the United Nations inspector general's office. Barbara Crossette (NYT)

EUROPE

RUSSIA: LIMITING FOREIGN INFLUENCE
The lower house of Parliament gave overwhelming preliminary approval to a law that would limit foreigners to less than a 50 percent stake in any Russian media company. The bill, which passed its first reading 332 to 22, is intended to protect Russians' freedom of speech and national security, said Aleksandr Chuyev, a member of Parliament from the Unity faction allied with President Vladimir V. Putin. Some foreign companies already own larger shares of Russian media companies and would apparently be forced to sell some of their interests should the bill become law. Michael Wines (NYT)

BRITAIN: GOOD NEWS FOR LIVESTOCK
The government said that because of the drop in the number of new cases of foot-and-mouth disease, it was easing its policy of automatically slaughtering healthy animals on farms next to those with infected cattle. The policy is credited with curbing the spread of the virus but has caused enormous distress to farm owners. Local veterinarians will now have the power to decide whether it is necessary, Agriculture Minister Nick Brown told the House of Commons. Warren Hoge (NYT)

GERMANY: A WAY OUT FOR KOHL
An inquiry into former Chancellor Helmut Kohl over his Christian Democratic Union's slush fund will be closed as soon as he pays a $133,500 fine, prosecutors in Bonn said. Mr. Kohl acknowledged in December 1999 having accepted more than $900,000 in undeclared party contributions between 1993 and 1998 and has repeatedly refused to identify the donors. A deadline of June 8 was set for the payment. Victor Homola (NYT)

FRANCE: ALGERIAN GENERAL FLEES LAWSUIT
Algeria's former defense minister, visiting France to promote his memoirs, fled yesterday after being named in lawsuits charging him with torture. General Khaled Nezzar, who was defense minister from 1990 to 1993 and had a reputation for brutally suppressing Islamic fundamentalists, was sued by three families and French prosecutors agreed to investigate him. It was the first time France has tried to enforce international human rights claims like those under which Britain held the former Chilean dictator, Augusto Pinochet,in custody for months. Donald G. McNeil Jr. (NYT)

MIDDLE EAST

ISRAEL: A GUARDED CELEBRATION
Israelis celebrated their 53rd Independence Day inside a ring of very tight security, with police officers and soldiers surrounding parks packed with familes picnicking and barbecuing. In Gaza, tens of thousands of Palestinians attended the funerals of four men killed in a blast near the Egyptian border. Deborah Sontag (NYT)

AMERICAS

MEXICO: INDIAN RIGHTS BILL ADVANCES
An Indian rights bill sought by the Zapatista rebels and supported by President Vicente Fox passed its first legal hurdle in a unanimous Senate vote. The bill, a proposed constitutional amendment, requires approval by the lower house and a majority of state legislatures. It would guarantee political and cultural rights to roughly 10 million Indians. Tim Weiner (NYT)

ASIA

TAJIKISTAN: DROUGHT CAUSES FOOD CRISIS
The World Food Program, a United Nations agency, said that a drought that has crippled agriculture in western and central Asia has left more than a million people facing severe food shortages in Tajikistan. The organization is seeking 127,000 tons of food, worth $62 million, to compensate for a collapse of wheat production in large areas of the country, which has 6.2 million people. The United States is traditionally the largest donor of international food relief. Barbara Crossette (NYT)

PHILIPPINES: SUPPORT FOR EX-PRESIDENT
Tens of thousands of predominantly poor people rallied in Manila in support of former President Joseph Estrada, who was arrested and jailed Wednesday on a charge of plundering the economy. Mr. Estrada issued a statement saying, "Don't worry about me here in jail because I remain strong." His lawyers are seeking his release into house arrest. Seth Mydans (NYT)

PAKISTAN: DEMOCRACY CAMPAIGNERS SEIZED
The military government rounded up hundreds of people in an attempt to block a May 1 rally of political parties demanding a return to democracy, according to party officials. The government, which took power in a bloodless coup in October 1999, used large-scale detentions to crack down on a similar rally in Lahore last month. Celia W. Dugger (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); DRUG POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); VETO (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (74%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (71%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (71%); MAMMALS (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (68%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (67%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (67%); ANIMALS (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (64%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (64%); LITIGATION (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS DRUG CONTROL PROGRAMME (56%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); FRANCE (93%); ASIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (92%); ALGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



756 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Deaths at Work Fall by Nearly Half in 20 Years 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, April 26 

 BODY:
Workplace deaths in the United States have dropped by nearly half over the last two decades, the government said today, crediting new technology, stricter safety regulations and a shift in the economy toward safer service-industry jobs.
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said 5,285 workers died from on-the-job injuries in 1997, the latest year for which figures were available. That is a rate of 4.1 deaths per 100,000 workers, down 45 percent from 1980, when it was 7.4. 
 "The hazards workers face are considerably different," said Suzanne Marsh, a statistician at the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. "We're moving from an industrial country to a more service-oriented country."
The Centers for Disease Control also attributed the decrease in deaths to new technology and stricter safety regulations.
Car crashes have accounted for one in four on-the-job deaths since 1980, the agency said. Homicides accounted for 14 percent, and machinery accidents 13 percent.
Mining was the most dangerous sector, with 30 deaths per 100,000 workers over the two decades. Agriculture and forestry followed at 19 deaths per 100,000 workers.
The agency cautioned that its numbers probably underestimated the number of deaths in the workplace because it measured them using a nationwide survey of death certificates. The Labor Department issues its own statistics on workplace deaths, tracking them with a more comprehensive method that also scours federal regulatory reports and news clippings.
Those numbers go back only to 1992 but have shown a similar trend -- a steady drop in deaths at work.
"There's been more emphasis on prevention by employers, government and workers," said William Weber, an assistant commissioner at the Labor Department. "People's consciousness was raised."
The C.D.C. report said men accounted for 93 percent of workplace deaths over the two decades.
"They tend to work in the construction industry, in industries that would face a higher danger," Ms. Marsh said.
In a separate report, the C.D.C. said American workers were treated in emergency rooms for 3.6 million work-related injuries in 1998. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (92%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MINE SAFETY REGULATION (90%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (89%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (89%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (79%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (77%); TRENDS (77%); STATISTICAL METHOD (76%); HOMICIDE (73%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (68%); CONSTRUCTION (50%) LABOR; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (91%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH (57%) CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



757 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: A New Politics of Pain: Japan's Tough Economic Repairmen 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 26 

 BODY:
For Japan's reform-minded new government, the central economic challenge is that almost anything it does to try to fix the long-term problems of an out-of-control budget deficit and a wobbly banking system will almost certainly exacerbate the country's immediate woes and risk pushing the economy into a new recession.
 Just today, the nation's central bank issued a bleak assessment of the economic prospects, predicting meager growth in a range of 0.3 percent to 0.8 percent in the fiscal year that will end next March. 
 Yet Japan's new prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, and the three-man team he has selected for the leading economic policy posts, have generally favored positions at odds with the stimulative measures that previous governments relied on over the last decade to prop up the ailing economy. If they are to succeed now with a different approach, analysts said, they will need to develop a new kind of power-sharing arrangement. 
Only one of the three economic ministers, Hakuo Yanagisawa -- who will remain as head of Japan's bank regulatory authority, the Financial Services Agency -- has extensive experience in government financial posts.
The reappointment of Mr. Yanagisawa, seen by the markets as a hard-headed proponent of repairing a dysfunctional banking system, was greeted with relief by economists and investors. He represents consistency and underscores Mr. Koizumi's commitment to forge ahead with tough measures to clean up the bad debts of banks and corporations.
Analysts also hailed the choice of Heizo Takenaka, an outspoken economist at Keio University in Tokyo, as economic policy minister. But he has no experience pulling the levers of government, and his advocacy of harsh remedies for Japan's economic ailments is likely to collide with political concerns over important legislative elections in three months. Already, Mr. Koizumi, the new prime minister, has denied that there will be an increase in the much-hated consumption tax, which is one of Mr. Takenaka's chief prescriptions.
The appointment of Masajuro Shiokawa, 79, as finance minister was perhaps the biggest disappointment in the cabinet line-up, and currency traders raced to sell yen. Stock markets had closed by the time his name surfaced. By early Friday afternoon, stocks were down almost 1 percent and the yen sold here at 123.47 to the dollar, weakened from 123.16 in New York the day before. 
Mr. Shiokawa has limited economic or financial credentials, which he demonstrated today when he said that he would leave monetary policy to Mr. Yanagisawa's agency, rather than the central bank, where responsibility for monetary matters lies by law.
But the markets may underestimate Mr. Shiokawa and misunderstand the role he is expected to play. The finance ministry used to be the tail that wagged the dog by its regulatory control over the financial sector, monetary policy and government purse strings. That is no longer true. Administrative reforms have sharply reduced the ministry's scope, leaving it to handle the government's books but assigning responsibility for the financial system to the Financial Services Agency and control over interest rates, the money supply and other monetary affairs to the central bank.
Having served in various government posts and as a chief figure in the ruling party, Mr. Shiokawa knows how to get things done.
"You need a man who actually knows his way around the ministries because the budget is all about line items and getting things done," said Jesper Koll, chief economist at Merrill Lynch here. "The markets have looked at his age and dismissed him as a throwback, but Shiokawa's not about back-pedaling on reform; he's about making sure reforms get done."
And if Mr. Takenaka and Mr. Yanagisawa are permitted to pursue an austerity strategy for economic and financial reform, it will take someone in the finance ministry to ensure that funds flow to the places needed to alleviate the social pain that will accompany such a fiscal overhaul.
To understand how the three might work together as a team, consider the construction industry. Japanese construction companies and related industries provide jobs for roughly 10 percent of the population and are one of the biggest sources of the votes and campaign contributions for the ruling Liberal Democratic Party.
It is not surprising that the construction business has been the biggest beneficiary of government efforts to stimulate the economy with grandiose public works projects. Construction has also dug itself into the deepest hole, requiring the biggest repair effort to overcome the accumulation of bad debts.
Mr. Yanagisawa is apparently prepared to pursue that. Construction was singled out for reform in a recent emergency economic package, and Mr. Yanagisawa has made no secret of his desire to clean it up.
That will mean increased unemployment among a group of workers that has been a reliable source of political support.
It will fall to Mr. Takenaka -- who recently wrote a best seller that explains economic A B C's, using a give-and-take with a famous copywriter as the narrative device -- to convince those workers and the public at large that increased unemployment, at least in the short term, is necessary for long-term health.
"He's what you Americans call a spin doctor," Mr. Koll said. "His job is to sell policy to the people."
Mr. Shiokawa at the finance ministry will have the unenviable task of finding the money to support newly unemployed construction workers and to retrain and redeploy them to more productive sectors of the economy, like telecommunications and health care.
Nor will he have the luxury of tapping a supplemental budget for the money. While there has been much speculation that such a budget will be in place before elections for the upper house of Parliament at the end of July, it would violate Mr. Koizumi's campaign promise to limit government bond issuance to 30 trillion yen -- currently $243 billion.
Only if the three men move in such a concerted fashion can Japan benefit from their tenure in office. The other critical player, the central bank, has already said that it will support such a process with appropriate monetary activity. But it will be up to the new cabinet members to break the political logjam that has blocked such efforts before.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Masajuro Shiokawa, chosen as finance minister, arriving to meet the new prime minister yesterday. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); RECESSION (76%); TRENDS (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (65%); JAPANESE YEN (65%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE; KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO; YANAGISAWA, HAKUO; TAKENAKA, HEIZO (MIN); SHIOKAWA, MASAJURO (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



758 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1591 words

HEADLINE: A New Age In Acne Treatment; 
It's No Longer Just a Market For Teenagers

BYLINE:  By JULIAN E. BARNES 

 BODY:
Although Coleen Rattigan had to treat an occasional pimple as a teenager, she never had serious acne. Then she turned 21. For the last two years she has had to fight off an onslaught of breakouts. Now her face is clear, but she is on two prescription acne drugs and visits the dermatologist almost weekly to get an injection that eliminates individual blemishes.
 "You think once you get into your 20's it is gone, but instead it has come back worse," she said. Ms. Rattigan, a 23-year-old junior account executive at Bear, Stearns, said many of her girlhood friends with skin perfect enough for a Noxzema commercial now battle pimples with an army of prescription and over-the-counter medications at a time when they might be expected to be worrying more about the onset of wrinkles. 
 In fact, doctors say, female adults are seeking treatments much more often than in the past, raising sales of everything from body washes to birth control pills in their quest for clear skin. 
Skin care and drug companies have seized on -- and perhaps exploited -- the trend, bombarding women with ads that play on the insecurities of young adults with less-than-perfect skin and explicitly discuss new, more effective treatments.
"There is a large segment of adult women worried about acne, and skin care companies realize it, and the pharmaceutical companies are also making more products for adult women," said Dr. Diane S. Berson, a dermatologist at the New York University School of Medicine.
The market for prescription acne medications rose 16 percent, to $1.1 billion last year, and 21 percent from 1998 to 1999, to $960 million, according to IMS Health, which tracks sales of prescription drugs. Sales of the drugs most often prescribed for women increased even more rapidly and accounted for nearly two-thirds of the market in 2000. And the overall figures do not include a birth control pill that clears up blemishes and had a 40 percent increase in sales last year.
Sales of acne treatments in supermarkets and drugstores grew 15.5 percent in 2000, to $338 million, says A. C. Nielsen, a market research firm. Sales to adults actually declined slightly last year, but much of that was because of lower sales to men, says the NPD Group, a market research firm.
At department stores, which sell most of their treatments to women, sales of acne remedies rose 73 percent in 1999 and 45 percent last year, to $22 million, NPD said. Over all, adults are about 60 percent of the market for prescription and over-the-counter acne medications, and women's share of the adult market increased from 64 percent in 1997, to 73 percent last year, NPD said.
Some recent surveys suggest that 50 percent of women have breakouts, and one study has put the incidence of mild acne in women as high as 54 percent in 1996, compared with 35 percent in 1979.
But others suspect that women are simply more worried about blemishes than they used to be.
People increasingly perceive clear skin as important, several experts said. Executives are often judged partly on their appearance when they are seeking promotions or new jobs, said John A. Challenger, chief executive of Challenger, Gray & Christmas, an outplacement firm. He said standards were often higher for women, and he counsels female job applicants that they must be better than the men they are competing against, including looking better and more professional.
"If someone comes in and seems to be breaking out all over in acne, that can cause the other person discomfort," he said, adding that having acne can also make the job seeker anxious, undermining the interview.
In many cases, women who have acne never had extensive breakouts as teenagers. But in some 30 percent of cases, acne continues from teenage years, dermatologists say.
"I wasn't looking forward to hitting the three-oh, but I thought this would be one thing that would go away," said Chantal St. Louis, 31, who was recently promoted to marketing manager with New York City Transit. "It didn't. Lately it's gotten worse."
Some skin care companies are profiting from women's growing interest in acne medication. In 1997, Cindy Zielinski, a vice president for marketing at Neutrogena, was flipping through beauty magazines when she paused, surprised by the number of letters and advice columns on women with acne.
The next year, Neutrogena, a unit of Johnson & Johnson, did a study that showed that 59 percent of women 25 to 39 suffered from acne in the previous 12 months. "We never realized so many adult women have acne," Ms. Zielinski said. "It caused us to say this is an amazing opportunity."
Neutrogena began an ad campaign with the none-too-comforting slogan "Unfortunately, acne stands out even more on an adult."
Neutrogena says its own research shows the number of female adults using the company's acne products increased 38 percent from 1998 to 2000. The company's share of the over-the-counter acne medication market rose from 21 percent and second place in 1998 to first place and 24 percent last January, according to Information Resources, a market research organization.
Among the women captured by Neutrogena's ads was Jenny Zhang, a 30-year-old Web developer in Manhattan. About six weeks ago, as stress at her job built, her face broke out, she said. A few weeks later, Ms. Zhang found herself standing in front of a display of Neutrogena acne products that she had seen advertised.
"This is the first time I have had pimples," she said. "I haven't had a breakout like this." 
Doctors have had to adjust, with everyone else, to seeing acne as an adult problem. "Fifty years ago, we were taught that acne was an adolescent disease," said Dr. Albert M. Kligman, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania medical school and author of several books on acne. "That is no longer the case."
Dermatologists like Dr. Kligman who say that female adults have more acne today than they did in the past point to a pair of studies conducted by the University of Leeds in 1979 and 1996. The British researchers found that the incidence of serious acne among men stayed around 3 percent, but among women it increased from 10 percent, to 14 percent. The incidence of less severe acne in women rose to 54 percent from 35 percent, said Dr. Victoria Goulden, a dermatologist at the Skin Research Center in Leeds, who helped conduct the 1996 study.
But Dr. Goulden said the studies were not conclusive. Although they looked at people in a variety of jobs with a range of income and education, she said, they did not use a random sample.
If blemishes are on the rise, some dermatologists say the hormones released by increased stress may be at fault. Stress, Dr. Kligman said, stimulates the adrenal gland, which creates substances that give rise to androgens. Androgens are male hormones that stimulate oil production, helping to clog hair follicles and allowing the bacteria that cause acne to inflame the skin.
"There is no doubt women face more stressful circumstances, and women are making more androgen," Dr. Kligman said. 
Still, stressed-out people may just care about getting rid of acne more, said Dr. Mary Gail Mercurio, an assistant professor of dermatology at the University of Rochester Medical Center, who has written on the role hormones play in acne.
Some women are simply more sensitive to the hormones that cause acne, Dr. Mercurio said.
Plenty of dermatologists say the whole debate is not very relevant to patients.
"I am dealing with young professionals in New York," said Dr. Hilary E. Baldwin, a Brooklyn dermatologist who treats many adult professional women with acne. "If I tell them their condition is caused by stress, what are they exactly supposed to do?"
Since few people are likely to quit a good job to eliminate a blemish, the answer for many women lies in the dermatologist's office, pharmacy or department store beauty counter.
Many dermatologists who treat women prescribe Accutane, and last year sales reached $587 million, up 21 percent from the previous year, according to IMS Health. Although Accutane, made by Hoffmann-La Roche, has been found to cause birth defects and critics of the drug have linked Accutane with depression, many dermatologists say that it is the best way to eliminate the persistent acne that affects women. 
Dermatologists also prescribe an oral contraceptive, Ortho Tri-Cyclen, that has been approved to treat mild acne, and Johnson & Johnson, which owns the company that makes it, has aggressively promoted this use. Sales of Ortho Tri-Cyclen have more than doubled since J.& J. began running television ads citing its effectiveness against acne in 1998, rising from $225 million, to $493 million.
As for department stores, Clinique, the Estee Lauder unit with the largest share of acne medications sold in department stores, introduced its latest line of acne treatments in September 1999. Sales of those products have increased 73 percent since then, Lauder said. Women make up much of Clinique's market.
"The only thing worse than having a wrinkle is having a pimple and a wrinkle at the same time," said Nance Dickinson, senior vice president for marketing at Clinique.
Felicia Milewicz, the beauty and health editor at Mademoiselle magazine, argues that it is important to pay extra attention to skin because it is no longer fashionable to use heavy makeup. "The days are gone when you bought foundation to cover a blemish," she said. "Now there is a need for perfection. Skin is the mirror of our inside, so we want our skin to look beautiful."
That sort of pressure is enough to cause a breakout.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chantal St. Louis, 31, above, a New York City marketing manager, says her acne has not eased in adulthood. A fiber optic skin monitor is used at an Estee Lauder lab, above left. (Above left, Maxine Hicks for The New York Times; Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) Chart: "Skin Cares"According to two studies, the percentage of female adults developing acne has increased sharply in recent years, accounting in part for the recent growth in sales of over-the-counter and prescription medicines that treat the problem. Chart shows percentage of women with mild acne1979: 35%1996: 54% . . . severe acne1979: 10%1996: 14% Figures based on two studies of British women by the University of Leeds. Chart shows the amount of money spent on over-the-counter acne medicines* and prescription acne medicines since 1996. *Sales figures are for periods ended January the following year, so 2000 sales are for 52 weeks ended January 2001.(Sources: University of Leeds; IMS Health; A. C. Nielsen) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACNE (95%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); SKIN DISORDERS (90%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); TEENS MARKET (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (89%); DERMATOLOGY (89%); WOMEN (88%); MARKET RESEARCH (87%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (78%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (77%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (72%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (72%); SALES FIGURES (72%); TRENDS (71%); MARKET SHARE (69%); CONTRACEPTION (67%); RETAILERS (67%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (65%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%) ACNE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); SALES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; WOMEN 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%); IMS HEALTH INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: BARNES, JULIAN E 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



759 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Japan's New Cabinet Breaks Hold Of Traditional Political Factions 

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 26 

 BODY:
The new prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, made good today on his pledge to steer clear of the factions that have traditionally dominated Japanese politics, naming one of the most eclectic cabinets in the country's history and including a record five women.
 The woman widely regarded as Japan's most popular politician became the country's first woman to serve as foreign minister, while a political veteran with decades of experience but little economic background was given the crucial post of finance minister. 
 Mr. Koizumi's appointments immediately raised the prospect of trouble within his own party for breaking the longtime practice of distributing ministerial appointments on the basis of factional strength in the governing Liberal Democratic Party. 
Only 6 of the 17 cabinet members came from the three main factions that have dominated the party, which has governed Japan almost without interruption since 1955.
Mr. Koizumi's choices reflected a conspicuous outreach to new constituencies, including women, the private sector and younger Liberal Democratic politicians frustrated with the seniority system that has governed advancement in the party.
The first real glimpses of Mr. Koizumi's policy orientation came in his selections for minister of economic and fiscal policy, and finance minister. And many commentators said the conflicting signals from the appointments dampened expectations of sweeping policy changes.
Also widely remarked on was Mr. Koizumi's choice for foreign minister, Makiko Tanaka, the daughter of the late prime minister, Kakuei Tanaka, the Liberal Democratic Party's most fabled power broker. 
Ms. Tanaka, who was an early supporter of Mr. Koizumi's campaign, holds her father's old parliamentary seat, but has shunned party factions, and shares the new prime minister's passion for change. She was expected to win a cabinet post, but the foreign minister's job came as a surprise to many because of her reputation for bluntness.
Ms. Tanaka -- who speaks English well, attended high school in Pennsylvania and at 57 is a relative youth in her party -- will have the task of handling the delicate relationship with Washington and Japan's ties with the rest of Asia. Japan's relations with its neighbors are often clouded by its behavior during World War II. South Korea, for example, recently recalled its ambassador from Tokyo to protest new school textbooks the Koreans feel gloss over Japan's harsh imperial occupation.
"Ms. Tanaka is regarded favorably, as pro-alliance, and is very outspoken," said Takashi Inoguchi, a professor of political science at Tokyo University. "She is very effective at carrying out an agenda, but she does not have much experience, just like Mr. Koizumi himself. Also, speaking and commenting on other people's negative sides as she does so often is not necessarily the best quality for a foreign minister."
As expected, Mr. Koizumi tapped Heizo Takenaka, a highly regarded economist at Keio University, as minister for economic policy. Mr. Takenaka is a vigorous advocate for fiscal reform, which was one of Mr. Koizumi's main campaign themes. 
Mr. Takenaka has advised previous administrations, but he has never been a government official. In the past, he has advocated cuts as steep as 80 percent in Japan's public works spending, which has been the governing party's preferred way of trying to stimulate the economy. That spending policy pleases the entrenched interests that finance the party, but it has failed to produce dynamic growth. Mr. Takenaka has also proposed an increase in the consumption tax, to help pay off the country's huge public debt. 
Mr. Koizumi's surprise choice for finance minister was Masajuro Shiokawa, 79, a veteran of several past governments, but with little economic policy experience. In his first news conference, Mr. Shiokawa said, "In the near term, the priority will be on an economic recovery."
Mr. Koizumi has virtually argued the opposite, saying during his campaign that Japan's recovery can take place only after fiscal changes.
Even analysts who praised the overall composition of the new economic team questioned Mr. Shiokawa's credentials. "If you are going to have any kind of serious reform, you need to have the ministry of finance marching to the tune of the finance minister, and it is not clear to me that Shiokawa has the background to make that happen," said Robert Feldman, the chief economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in Tokyo. 
Other political analysts said the appointments of Mr. Shiokawa and Mr. Takenaka, along with a well-regarded holdover from the departing government, Hakuo Yanagisawa, might simply reflect Mr. Koizumi's efforts to reconcile his reformist views with those of faction leaders who oppose any sudden fiscal changes or austerity measures for fear they would choke the economy.
Mr. Koizumi's weakness within his party may have already tilted the balance against major changes in economic policy. One day after his appointment to what is effectively the No. 3 job in the Liberal Democratic Party, Taro Aso, one of Mr. Koizumi's rivals for the party leadership contest, said Japan must continue to prime the pump of its economy. "I have to think of additional stimulus measures," Mr. Aso said.
Indeed, some political analysts said they expected that for now Mr. Koizumi, who rode to power on stirring but vague promises of change, would probably stick to symbolic matters like breaking the stranglehold of factions, rather than try to tackle structural economic problems. Above all, he faces pressure to appear to be ushering in change before parliamentary elections in July, in which the Liberal Democrats are expected to fare poorly. Japanese analysts have speculated that if the election results do not favor the ruling party, the factions may turn on Mr. Koizumi and seek his ouster.
"He has got 90 days, and because expectations are so high he has to do something," said Shigenori Okazaki, chief political analyst at the investment bank UBS Warburg. "They want to make it through this election, and the closer you listen to what Koizumi and his people are saying, their real priority is party reform. I see very serious gridlock, with people in the Hashimoto faction and in the Eto-Kamei faction preparing to strike back at Koizumi." Ryutaro Hashimoto, and Takami Eto and Shizuka Kamei lead two of the three main factions. Mr. Hashimoto and Mr. Kamei failed to beat Mr. Koizumi for the party presidency.
"They are already so peeved at Koizumi, especially Hashimoto and Kamei," said Kenji Kobayashi, a member of Parliament from the opposition Democratic Party. "They are really complaining. Just yelling at each other."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi with some of his cabinet members, including Foreign Minister Makiko Tanaka, behind Mr. Koizumi. (Associated Press)(pg. A1); Makiko Tanaka, Japan's foreign minister, at the Imperial Palace yesterday with Emperor Akihito and Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, center. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); HISTORY (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); WOMEN (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); KOREAN WAR (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); WORLD WAR II (71%); TRENDS (65%); TEXTBOOKS (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WOMEN; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN); FRENCH, HOWARD W; TANAKA, MAKIKO (MIN); TAKENAKA, HEIZO (MIN); SHIOKAWA, MASAJURO (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



760 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Deal Is Signed To Take Over Trade Center 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Despite some missteps and a last-minute snag, a developer signed a contract yesterday to take control of the 110-story World Trade Center complex in a deal worth $3.2 billion, the largest real estate transaction in New York history.
 The completion of the deal is the end of an effort begun three years ago by Gov. George E. Pataki of New York and Christie Whitman, then the governor of New Jersey, to privatize the huge 10.6-million-square-foot office complex. It was built 30 years ago by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to stimulate development in Lower Manhattan. The governors pledged to use the proceeds from the transaction for new transportation projects. 
 A group led by Larry A. Silverstein, a developer, and Westfield America Inc., an owner of shopping centers, signed a 99-year lease yesterday after working nearly 24 hours straight on the agreement. Still, the Port Authority delayed the start of its board meeting yesterday afternoon until the developer delivered a $100 million letter of credit, the first installment on a $616 million down payment. The group will then make annual rent payments to the Port Authority, manage and lease the complex and spend $200 million on capital improvements.
In recent weeks, the deal was beset by a series of problems -- ranging from the enormous difficulty of structuring such a complex deal within a short time to the sudden slowdown in the economy -- that scuttled negotiations with one bidder and nearly toppled Mr. Silverstein. 
The Silverstein group is scheduled to close the deal in July, although it has the option to extend the process for 30 days more.
"This agreement allows the private sector to bring its expertise to managing this landmark," Governor Pataki said in a statement yesterday, "and it frees Port Authority resources for improvements in airports, tunnels, bridges and other parts of the region's transportation network."
Mr. Silverstein was both tired and ebullient yesterday evening.
"I'm thrilled to pieces," he said yesterday. "I've been looking at the trade center for years, thinking what a great piece of real estate, what a thrill it would be to own it. There's nothing like it in the world."
Mr. Silverstein owns about 5.5 million square feet of office space downtown, including 7 World Trade Center, a 48-story tower that was built on land owned by the Port Authority.
Charles A. Gargano, vice chairman of the Port Authority, said the bistate agency would negotiate with the city over payments in lieu of taxes for the property. The World Trade Center paid the city about $29 million last year, but Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has insisted that the number should be equal to full property taxes, about $100 million.
The Silverstein group was the second bidder to negotiate for the right to control the trade center complex and its effort nearly collapsed Wednesday, much like the first attempt last month by Vornado Realty Trust, and its chairman, Steven Roth. Worried about the financial viability of Mr. Silverstein's group, the Port Authority was preparing to break off negotiations on Wednesday, when Mr. Silverstein asked for a little more time. The board gave him until yesterday afternoon to come up with a $100 million check and sign 1,000 pages of contracts, leases and agreements.
"The time comes in every transaction when you have to put the pencils down and stop negotiating," said Cherrie L. Nanninga, director of real estate for the Port Authority.
In the end, she said, there were various trade-offs. The Silverstein group lowered its down payment from $800 million to $616 million but raised its annual rent payment. Mr. Silverstein also had to post a nonrefundable letter of credit, which had many Port Authority executives holding their breath until shortly after 3 p.m. yesterday.
The twin towers complex opened in the 1970's to poor reviews. But the vast complex soon found a place in the popular culture. King Kong climbed one tower in a remake of the movie classic. And in 1993, a terrorist bomb explosion killed six people and injured more than a thousand.
In recent years, the complex has filled up with tenants and revenues have improved significantly. Operating income is expected to be more than $200 million this year and continue rising through the decade. The annual rent for Dean Witter, which leases more than a million square feet, will jump by about $21 million starting in May.
It took New York and New Jersey officials several years even to agree on the decision to put the complex into private hands in 1998, when the Port Authority's advisers estimated that a sale might bring $1.5 billion.
More than 30 bidders competed for the site, before the Port Authority narrowed the list to three: Vornado, which bid $3.25 billion; the Silverstein group, which offered $3.22 billion; and a joint venture of Brookfield Financial Properties and Boston Properties.
Some Port Authority executives said that the Brookfield group was considered the strongest contestant but that its bid was the lowest at $3.1 billion. The bistate agency did not want to open itself up to criticism for favoritism, so it opened negotiations last month with Vornado. It gave the company 20 days to come to terms on a deal.
But when Vornado tried to change the terms of the deal at the last minute, Port Authority officials balked. It was an attractive offer, but the officials feared that the company, which had a reputation as a difficult negotiator, might be stalling for better terms. They did not want to get bogged down in endless rounds of discussion. Mr. Roth is expected to sign a deal with Bloomberg today to build a skyscraper on the Upper East Side after three years of talks.
"They negotiate to the point of nitpicking," one official said. "But they're a good organization."
Ultimately, the Port Authority turned to Mr. Silverstein, though they questioned whether his relatively small organization could handle as large a complex as the trade center. When the deal with Mr. Silverstein nearly collapsed on Wednesday, some commissioners at the Port Authority said they should take the property off the auction block because they had lost all leverage in a cooling real estate market.
Rather than suffer that embarrassment, one official said, they persevered with Mr. Silverstein.
"Despite the economy," said Lewis M. Eisenberg, chairman of the Port Authority, "this deal proves that World Trade Center is still the most unique property in the world."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A developer's agreement to lease the World Trade Center for 99 years represents the biggest real estate transaction in New York history. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); LETTERS OF CREDIT (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (75%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (71%); PROPERTY TAX (62%); RETAILERS (53%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%) WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PRIVATIZATION; FINANCES 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (71%); WESTFIELD AMERICA INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY; WESTFIELD AMERICA INC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (71%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (57%) BAGLI, CHARLES V; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD; SILVERSTEIN, LARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



761 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 83 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: EUROPE; 
EUROPE: INTEREST RATES STEADY

BYLINE:  By Edmund L. Andrews 

 BODY:
 The European Central Bank once again refused to reduce interest rates, turning aside pleas from some European political leaders and charting a staunchly separate course from that of the United States Federal Reserve. The central bank's decision was widely expected since its last meeting two weeks ago, when it surprised investors by holding rates steady and using unusually clear language to say that it was more worried about inflation risks than a severe slowdown.
 Edmund L. Andrews (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (88%) CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



762 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 144 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business Briefing; 
WESTCHESTER HOME PRICES

BYLINE:  By Corey Kilgannon 

 BODY:
Despite the economic downturn, the price of homes in Westchester County has increased significantly this year, according to the Westchester-Putnam Multiple Listing Service. The service announced yesterday that purchase prices for homes in the county had risen 11 percent for the first quarter in 2001, compared with the same period in 2000. 
The median price of a single-family home in early 2001 was $412,500, up from $372,000 a year earlier. The 2001 price is the highest ever recorded in a first quarter, according to the listing service. Donna M. Tierney, president of the Westchester County Board of Realtors, said that the stock prices had not affected the market. Ms. Tierney, a real estate broker specializing in Armonk and Chappaqua, said that buyers had been particularly interested in high-end homes ranging from $820,000 to $1 million. Corey Kilgannon

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%) HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: KILGANNON, COREY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) NEW YORK STATE; WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



763 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Another Wachovia Suitor Disclosed in S.E.C. Filing
A day before Wachovia's board approved a $13 billion merger with First Union, two top executives were contacted by another financial institution interested in a deal, a Securities and Exchange Commission filing said.
 While the filing does not identify the institution, analysts think it was SunTrust Banks of Atlanta, one of the few remaining independent banks in the South. Page C3. 

British Telecom Chairman Resigns
Burdened by debt and assailed by disgruntled investors, British Telecommunications announced the resignation of its longtime chairman, Sir Iain Vallance. C2.

Sweetened Bid by Shell for Barrett
Royal Dutch/Shell raised its hostile offer for Barrett Resources to about $2 billion from $1.8 billion. The sweetened bid comes as rivals like Phillips Petroleum and Burlington Resources are considering entering the fray, executives close to the discussions said. Shares of Barrett rose $1.85, to $63.75. C12.

I.B.M. Creates Silicon Alternative
I.B.M. scientists have for the first time created a vast assembly of transistors using a new material only a few molecules wide, taking a significant step toward computers far tinier and more powerful than those used today. A1.

Scientists Give In to Music Industry
Bowing to pressure from the recording industry, a group of computer scientists who had defeated an industry copy-protection program abruptly withdrew their research paper from a scientific conference. C5.

Ad Agency Company to Be Unveiled
An advertising agency company, called 10 Worldwide, is to be introduced today by principals of two agencies based in Columbus, Ohio. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C3.

Microsoft Is in Alliance With Qwest
Microsoft announced an alliance with Qwest Communications to deploy a version of the Microsoft service over high-speed lines in the 14 states served by Qwest. C5.

Dow and S.& P. Up as Nasdaq Falls
Stocks were mixed as the Dow Jones industrial average rose 67.15 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,692.35, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 5.77 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,234.52. The Nasdaq composite index fell 24.92 points, or 1.2 percent, to 2,034.88. C6.

Offer for De Beers Is Raised
Nicky Oppenheimer, left, and his family, which controls De Beers, and its partners raised their bid to take De Beers private after several major shareholders said they would oppose the original offer. The cash portion rose $2, to $16.40 a share, increasing the deal's value to $18.2 billion. The stock portion is unchanged. World Business, Section W.

World Trade Center Control Is Sold
A developer signed a contract to take control of the 110-story World Trade Center complex in a deal worth $3.2 billion, the largest real estate transaction in New York history. B1.

Jobless Claims and Labor Cost Rise
The number of Americans filing for first-time unemployment benefits rose last year to the highest level in five years, while employment costs climbed in the first quarter, the Labor Department reported. C6.

Europe Pushes E-Commerce Law
European Commission officials are trying to sidestep opposition on a proposed law governing cross-border Internet commerce by enacting it quickly. World Business, Section W.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart tracks Barrett Resources since last Thursday. Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,692.35 up 67.15Nasdaq composite -- 2,034.88 down 24.9210-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.17% down 0.09The euro -- $0.9034 up 0.0072The dollar -- 123.16 yen 0.94 Graph: "TODAY" shows "Gross Domestic Product"First-quarter figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +1.1%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MERGERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (86%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (65%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (91%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (84%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (83%); MICROSOFT CORP (82%); CENTURYLINK INC (73%); SUNTRUST BANKS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (91%); RDSA (LSE) (84%); RDSA (AMS) (84%); RDS.B (NYSE) (84%); RDS.A (NYSE) (84%); COP (NYSE) (83%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (82%); CTL (NYSE) (73%); STI (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (83%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (83%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (83%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (83%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (73%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (73%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (68%) OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



764 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
A new agency aims to help provide clients with a wide range of communications services.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
EXECUTIVES with experience in a variety of marketing fields are uniting to start an agency company meant to help provide clients a range of communications services as well as traditional advertising.
 The new enterprise, 10 Worldwide, is to be formally announced today by principals of two agencies based in Columbus, Ohio: HMS Partners and Resource Marketing. They are being joined by the former president and chief executive of the Lighthouse Global Network, a marketing services agency that the Cordiant Communications Group in London and New York acquired in September for $592 million. 
 Almost 400 employees will work for 10 Worldwide at offices in Columbus; New York; Orlando, Fla.; Pittsburgh; and Tampa, Fla. They will handle assignments in areas that will include off-line and online advertising, direct marketing, brand development strategy, public relations and customer relationship marketing. 
Among the clients of 10 Worldwide, with combined billings estimated at more than $350 million, are Deutsche Bank, the Fidelity Investments unit of FMR, Ford Motor, Hewlett-Packard, the Hoover unit of Maytag, Limited and Sony.
The move is indicative of the efforts being made by Madison Avenue to serve the continuously changing needs of clients better as they frenetically search for more effective alternatives to conventional pitches like television commercials and print advertisements.
Other recent examples include the formation of a multiple-services company by agencies including AKQA in London and Citron Haligman Bedecarre in San Francisco, which operates under the AKQA moniker, and the formation of a company, Carton Donofrio Partners in Baltimore, which bills itself as a "brand experience design" specialist, by the ad agency Richardson, Myers & Donofrio and the online agency Carton Donofrio Interactive.
"The idea is to build something that isn't just a holding company," said Martin J. Beck, the former top manager at Lighthouse, who becomes chairman and chief executive at 10 Worldwide, "but to build something holistic that maximizes the marketing spending of clients with what is appropriate for them, so they get the best return on investment."
"The economy presents an opportunity for a new company like ours," he added, "because this is a time when marketers are challenging their partners more than ever before, looking for world-changing ideas that will make a major difference for their businesses."
It was Mr. Beck who created the name, said Rick Milenthal, chief executive at HMS Partners, who becomes president and chief operating officer at 10 Worldwide.
"It's 10 because 9.9 isn't good enough," Mr. Milenthal said, "and 10 stands for the perfect connection between brand and customer."
Paging Bo Derek!
"Everything ought to be wrapped around creating a great experience for the consumer" with a product or service, Mr. Milenthal said, "and that should be seen as a marketing investment, not a marketing cost."
In addition to the unusual numerical name, a third top executive at 10 Worldwide has an unusual numerical title. She is Nancy Kramer, chief executive at Resource Marketing, which is best known for an innovative Webcast fashion show for the Victoria's Secret lingerie chain. Ms. Kramer becomes president and CC3 O at 10 Worldwide; "C3 " stands for clients, creative and culture.
"We're re-engineering -- though I hate that term -- organizations that are successful in their own domains," Ms. Kramer said, "to meet the needs of today's clients and consumers."
"Consumers are more demanding of brands than ever, and they're the ones dictating how and when they get messages" from marketers, she added. "Period. End of story."
Mr. Beck, 57; Ms. Kramer, 45; and Mr. Milenthal, 41, will also all be managing partners at 10 Worldwide. There will be two partners: David Milenthal, 53, chairman at HMS Partners and the brother of Rick Milenthal, and Bill Binstock, 48, chief executive at HMS Hallmark, the ad agency division of HMS Partners.
For the time being, the operating units of 10 Worldwide will continue using their current names: HMS Hallmark; HMS Success, the public relations division; Motivo, the digital division; and Resource Marketing.
That is likely to change, Ms. Kramer said, as 10 Worldwide reconfigures and grows, adding, "We are in discussion with other entities and hope to announce additional partners in the next few weeks" in areas like retail strategy and design and marketing strategy.
Before taking part in the formation of 10 Worldwide, HMS Partners had been on an acquisitions tear, buying Hallmark/Tassone in May, an ad agency with estimated billings of $100 million, and Workstate in June, an interactive technology agency in Columbus.
A deal two months ago to acquire Fahlgren, an ad agency in Dublin, Ohio, which was to have been merged with HMS Hallmark, was canceled over what were termed philosophical differences. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (96%); BRANDING (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (79%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (79%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE (78%); DIRECT MARKETING (78%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (73%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (67%) ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (69%); CORDIANT COMMUNICATIONS GROUP PLC (57%); FORD MOTOR CO (56%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%); CARTON DONOFRIO PARTNERS/PUBLIC RELATIONS (54%); CARTON DONOFRIO PARTNERS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: THE LIGHTHOUSE (83%) TEN WORLDWIDE (AD AGENCY); HMS PARTNERS; RESOURCE MARKETING INC; CORDIANT COMMUNICATIONS GROUP; LIGHTHOUSE GLOBAL NETWORK 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (56%); F (NYSE) (56%); DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%); HPQ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (69%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART; BECK, MARTIN J 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (88%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) OHIO, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



765 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 276 words

HEADLINE: Belgian Dispute on KPMG Audit 

BYLINE:  AP

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, April 26 

 BODY:
Former senior managers of Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products today rejected a report from KPMG that asserts they withheld essential information during an audit.
 In letters to the Belgian daily De Financieel Economische Tijd, the founders, Jo Lernout and Pol Hauspie, and a fellow former board member, Nico Willaert, said they cooperated with KPMG and the firm was fully aware of the company's structure and its activities in South Korea. 
 The company is being investigated for possible fraud after admitting last year that there were accounting irregularities at its Korean unit. The fallout forced Lernout & Hauspie, a speech-recognition and translation-technology company, to seek bankruptcy court protection in Belgium and in the United States.
Mr. Lernout, Mr. Hauspie and Mr. Willaert were brought in for questioning today by the examining judge, Kristof Vulsteke, lawyers said. The prosecutor, Jean-Marie Coppens, said no decision had been made on whether they would be held in custody or released. 
Mr. Lernout and Mr. Hauspie were not expected at a special shareholders meeting on Friday in Ieper, where the new management and KPMG will explain the events that have led to the company's decline. 
The only vote scheduled is for new rules on how board members will be appointed. The three former directors have requested that their letters be read at the meeting. They blamed KPMG for some of the problems with the Korean operation.
A Lernout & Hauspie spokesman, Ron Schuermans, said the company had no immediate comment on the letters. A KPMG spokesman, Jonathan Hawker, said the firm would respond in full at the meeting to the charges in the letters. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); ACCOUNTING (73%); LAWYERS (73%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (72%); BOARD CHANGES (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (69%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: KPMG (95%); LERNOUT & HAUSPIE SPEECH PRODUCTS USA INC (93%); NUANCE COMMUNICATIONS INC (93%)

TICKER: NUAN (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (95%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (95%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (93%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (93%) SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) BELGIUM (91%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



766 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Looking for a Low Interest Rate? How About Zero? 

BYLINE:  By Floyd Norris 

 BODY:
EVEN Alan Greenspan must be surprised by just how low some interest rates have fallen. Can you believe zero percent?
 That's the rate the Calpine Corporation, which owns power plants and has been getting rich off California's electricity problems, paid this week when it borrowed $850 million for 20 years. The bonds are convertible into Calpine stock at a 37 percent premium to Calpine's current price. 
 Another borrower, Stilwell Financial, did not get a zero rate. But Dan Carpenter, an executive vice president of Stilwell, the parent of the Janus mutual funds group, was still happy. "Our combination of a 1 percent yield and a 47.5 percent conversion premium is the best any issuer ever achieved," he exulted last night.
They are not alone. Since Tyco, a rapidly growing conglomerate, started the ball rolling last November, 25 zero-coupon convertibles with yields of 4 percent or less have raised $19.2 billion, according to Thomson Financial Securities Data. Merrill Lynch leads the field, but most other big underwriters are also involved. Over all, including those with higher yields, more zero-coupon convertibles have been issued in 2001 than in any previous year.
How can this be possible? The government can't borrow money at those rates, and its credit is supposed to be better than any company's.
The answer hinges on volatility. The wild swings in stock prices may drive investors crazy, but they also make it cheaper for companies to borrow.
That is because a convertible bond can be seen as a combination of two securities: a bond and a long-term call option to buy the stock. The higher the volatility, the more the option is worth. So an investor pays for the option by taking a lower interest rate on the bond.
At first glance, it appears the company cannot lose. If the share price rises, it ends up selling stock at a price well above the current market price. If the stock price fails to rise, the company has borrowed money at a very low interest rate, so it wins there, too.
There is another neat trick here, one that may lead to misleading accounting. By carefully manipulating the terms of the bonds, companies believe they will not have to include the shares they will issue when calculating per-share earnings, even after the stock price has risen past the conversion price. That appears to conform to the precise wording of accounting rules, but perhaps not with the intent. The rules may need to be updated.
There is, however, one other feature that could yet blow up on a company or two. To make these bonds attractive to investors, they include put provisions allowing the investor to sell the bond back to the company on certain dates. If the stock falls sharply, the company will have to buy back the bonds.
If the company is still in good shape financially, it will be able to borrow other money to repay the bond. But a company could find itself forced to pay billions just when its finances are the most troubled. "As in many financial instruments, it works really well as long as the stock goes up," said Jonathan Glaser, whose JMG Capital Partners has bought several such issues. "If the stock plunges, potentially it's a death spiral."
No one seems very worried about that possibility now. With a recession possible, some creditors are frozen out of the credit markets. But those that can borrow, including some like Calpine that are rated just below investment grade, can get money at rates that are the lowest ever.

GRAPHIC: Chart shows issuance of zero-coupon convertible bonds since 1995. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ZERO COUPON SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); POWER FAILURES (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (71%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (65%); ACCOUNTING (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS 

COMPANY: CALPINE CORP (95%); JANUS CAPITAL GROUP INC (73%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CALPINE CORP; STILWELL FINANCIAL 

TICKER: CPN (NYSE) (95%); JNS (NYSE) (73%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (95%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (95%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (73%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (73%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (73%) NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



767 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Bush Faces Senate Struggle On Rise in Rate of Spending 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 26 

 BODY:
President Bush appears headed toward another setback on the budget, this time over his call to pare the growth of government spending.
 Having conceded that he would not get the full $1.6 trillion tax cut he had proposed, Mr. Bush was now seeking to undo at least part of the spending increases adopted by the Senate in its budget plan earlier this month. 
 The Senate plan would increase spending on general government programs at twice the rate sought by Mr. Bush. 
Although that figure is all but certain to be reduced in the next week or two as the Senate works out a compromise budget plan with the House, which adopted Mr. Bush's spending target, it is still likely to be far above what the White House wants. And recent history suggests that the spending limit set by the nonbinding budget plan will be ignored or sidestepped as Congress passes the bills that appropriate money to specific programs.
White House officials said the situation validated Mr. Bush's position that the only way to keep Congress from spending every penny on the table was to push through as big a tax cut as possible. If the rate of increase passed by the Senate were to be adopted each year, White House officials said, spending would double in nine years and the projected budget surplus of $5.6 trillion over the next decade would be reduced by $3 trillion.
Democrats said the situation showed that there was a broad consensus for increased spending on issues that were more important to most people than a big tax cut that would go disproportionately to the wealthy.
In any case, analysts said, the growth in spending is likely to continue as long as the government is running budget surpluses, regardless of which party occupies the White House.
"There's ample proof that the interest in higher spending comes from across the Congress and across party lines," said Stanley E. Collender, director of the Federal Budget Consulting Group at Fleischman-Hillard, the public relations firm.
Mr. Bush's budget proposed an increase in spending for the coming year of 4 percent on the array of general government programs for which Congress must set spending levels each year. That would be an increase sharply lower than in recent years, when that category of spending climbed about 6 percent to 8 percent a year.
The 4 percent sought by Mr. Bush translated into an increase in so-called discretionary spending of about $25.3 billion for next year, to $660.7 billion from $635.4 billion.
The budget resolution passed by the Senate this month, with support from all 50 Republicans and from 15 Democrats, called for an increase in discretionary spending of 8.3 percent for next year. Under the plan, spending on those programs would rise to $688.4 billion next year, an increase of $53 billion, or $27.7 billion more than sought by Mr. Bush.
As adopted by the Senate, the budget would increase military spending by 7.6 percent next year. For nonmilitary programs, the increase would be 9 percent.
The increases approved by the Senate included $294 billion over 10 years for education, another $70 billion over 10 years for special education and $64 billion over 10 years for agriculture. The Senate also approved increases of $700 million next year for the National Institutes of Health and $8.5 billion next year for the Pentagon.
Lawrence Lindsey, Mr. Bush's chief economic adviser, said the spending levels approved by the Senate were "quite irresponsible."
Asked if Mr. Bush's goal of holding discretionary spending increases to 4 percent had been proven unrealistic by the Senate votes, Mr. Lindsey said: "Quite the contrary. It's what the House passed, and the House leadership has signaled that the House would have difficulty passing a budget with an increase of any more than that."
Republican leaders on Capitol Hill said it would be difficult for them to avoid a revolt by conservatives, especially in the House, if they tried to split the difference between the House and the Senate and adopt an increase of 6 percent. Yet Mr. Bush may need to trade promises of support for increased spending to win votes for his tax plan from moderate Democrats in the Senate.
As a political matter, Mr. Bush has always found that voters respond well to his argument that if families can get by with pay raises that are usually less than 4 percent a year, then the federal government ought to be able to hold spending increases to 4 percent annually.
"Four percent is a hefty increase, but for some in Washington, 4 percent is not enough," Mr. Bush told a crowd in New Orleans on Tuesday, prompting a wave of boos in support of his point.
Yet when voters are asked about specific programs rather than abstract spending levels, they tend to support spending increases. A poll released today by the Pew Research Center found that public support had grown substantially for increased spending on a wide array of initiatives, including environmental protection, health care, education and the military -- and that support for spending cuts had declined across the board.
In holding spending increases to 4 percent for next year while providing more money for education and a number of other areas, Mr. Bush had to propose measures of a type that Congress had rarely been willing to enact. They include financing increases below the level of inflation or outright cuts in programs like job training, low-income housing, health care and environmental protection.
"Bush's numbers are unrealistic, and you can see that based on what actually passed in the Senate," Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, the senior Democrat on the Budget Committee, said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); BUDGET FORECASTS (73%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



768 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: TV SPORTS; 
The Mystery Behind 'Wide World' Is Solved

BYLINE:  By Richard Sandomir

 BODY:
ABC's "Wide World of Sports" turns 40 years old on Sunday. But there have not been 40 full years of this seminal anthology series. The last "Wide World" was shown in 1998 and while a best-of version runs on ESPN Classic, its name has lived on as the umbrella title for some ABC Sports programming and as the Disneysports complex in Florida.
 ABC will celebrate the anniversary with a two-hour retrospective from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. Eastern on Sunday (and yes, ABC will visit with Vinko Bogataj, the Yugoslav ski jumper whose horrific spill in 1970 came to symbolize the show's "agony of defeat"). The program offers a chance to recall how "Wide World of Sports" became an iconic show, with its eclectic mix of Acapulco cliff diving, boxing, baton-twirling, motorcycle jumping, chess, soccer, track and field, Evel Knievel, wrist wrestling, the Indianapolis 500, barrel jumping and figure skating. 
 The mists of history have bestowed creator's status on Roone Arledge, yet it was Edgar Scherick, his boss, who developed the concept. Scherick had hired Arledge, who was producing the puppeteer Shari Lewis's show on local New York television.
"I took an awful big chance on him," Scherick, a noted film producer, said yesterday. The risk worked out fairly well, as Arledge eventually ran ABC Sports, then became the president of ABC News.
Scherick was running Sports Programs Inc., a company that was eventually acquired by ABC and became its sports division. It was a frantic place and Scherick was a dynamic, forceful executive who frequently battled with the equally strong-willed Jack Lubell, a producer-director for S.P.I.
"It was originally just the three of us, Ed, Jack and me, and then we added people like Roone," said Chet Simmons, who would later run NBC Sports and ESPN. "One day, I went into Ed's office, and Jack had Ed pinned against the wall, and Ed's feet were off the ground. Ed looked over Jack's shoulder and said to me, 'Everything's O.K.' They went to war every day."
One of the problems in 1960 for ABC, and thus, for S.P.I., was that its baseball telecasts had to be blacked out in major league markets. 
"We needed something to go national with," Scherick said. "We needed sports events that weren't being shown, which were interesting viewing, which could be taped, and we could put on the air the next day. So out of economic need, we started buying rights. We went to the A.A.U. and negotiated contracts for all its events, including the Soviet-American track meet in 1961."
Scherick, who is sensitive to a lack of recognition for his role, credits Arledge with enormous creative contributions, but not with the initial concept. "Roone had nothing to do with the formation of 'Wide World,' " he said.
Jim Spence, a former senior vice president of ABC Sports, said: "Roone executed it, but he didn't create it. I think Ed's complaint has been that while Roone didn't take credit for creating it, he didn't deny it when someone else said he did." 
In an online recollection for ABC Sports.com, Arledge credits Scherick with discussing with him "something that we had to do that would be different" and for selling the advertising necessary for ABC-TV to put the newfangled show on the air.
With the Penn and Drake relays as its first events, the show made its debut on April 29, 1961, with Jim McKay as the host. He will also be the host for Sunday's two-hour program.
"Wide World" became the focus of ABC Sports, providing it with a platform to produce Olympic sports, which came in handy when it televised 10 of the 13 Olympics from 1964 to 1988. The show also trained scores of producers, directors, announcers and executives, three of whom, Dick Ebersol, Howard Katz and Sean McManus (McKay's son), now run NBC, ABC and CBS sports, respectively.
And it bore the Arledge imprint, in its daring and variety.
McKay recalled that he had never liked calling motorcycle jumping, and had wished Arledge would not assign him to it. "One time, we were doing ski jumping in St. Moritz," he said. "I was going to ski for four days, but he calls me up and says, 'You're going to Houston, to the Astrodome, to cover a motorcycle-jumping final.' I could have killed him." But he went.
McKay also recalled being at the 1961 U.S.-Soviet track championship where ABC's videotape equipment fascinated the fans at Lenin Stadium. "They had no video machines in the Soviet Union," McKay said. "And then they saw Valery Brumel high jump once, again and again." 
ABC recently shelved the idea of reviving "Wide World" because the slowing economy has dampened advertiser enthusiasm for it. But Katz still thinks the show can be revived.
"I think you can make it special enough so once a week people would like to see it," he said. "But you can't recreate what was."

AIRWAVES
BOB COSTAS's "On the Record" on HBO hits its pinnacle Wednesday night with a warm and marvelous segment on RAY CHARLES's appreciation of the musical cadences of VIN SCULLY, the Dodger announcer. What a delight. . . . Another delight can be viewed Sunday on Cinemax, at 7:30 p.m. Eastern, with the television premiere of the Oscar-nominated documentary "The Life and Times of Hank Greenberg," which explores how the Bronx-born Detroit Tiger slugger handled anti-Semitism and the impact he had on Jewish fans.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jim McKay was the host when "Wide World of Sports" made its debut in 1961. He will also be the host for Sunday's two-hour retrospective. (ABC Sports) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TRACK & FIELD (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (79%); BASEBALL (78%); EXTREME SPORTS (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); WRESTLING (78%); DIVING (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); FILM DIRECTORS (70%); AUTO RACING (68%); SOCCER (68%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (66%); RUNNING (58%); MOTOR VEHICLES (53%); ICE SKATING (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (84%); ESPN INC (74%); ABC SPORTS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (56%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); INDIANA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



769 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Plan on California Energy Has No Shortage of Critics 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 26 

 BODY:
A novel plan by federal regulators to control California's runaway electricity prices is a messy, politically motivated compromise that may offer some relief to consumers but will do little to fix the state's dysfunctional energy market, analysts said today.
 The intervention, announced by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission on Wednesday night after much haggling, was dismissed by a wide range of critics today as a flawed effort that satisfies no one. 
 It fell short of the sweeping suspension of regional electricity deregulation that California officials and some energy experts had advocated. But it also crossed what has become a firm ideological line among Republican leaders, including President Bush, by imposing price controls on some electricity sales to utilities. 
Under the agency's order, which takes effect on May 1, California regulators can begin to impose price controls on power generators when electricity supplies fall to within 7.5 percent of consumer demand. The state is expected to face such shortages routinely this summer, and the order has the potential to shave billions of dollars off California's electricity bill if implemented fully, some people at the federal agency say.
"The president has a long-held belief that price caps don't work," the White House press secretary, Ari Fleischer, said today. "The last thing you want to do is create artificially increased demand and put in disincentives that harm the availability of supply."
Mr. Fleischer noted that the energy commission is an independent federal agency, adding that the Bush administration has no authority to countermand its orders.
But Mr. Bush did appoint the commission's chairman, Curtis L. Hebert Jr., a Republican. Like the president, Mr. Hebert has often insisted that price caps do no good. But he came under withering political pressure to abandon the agency's largely hands-off approach to the California crisis. Some of that pressure came from the two other commissioners at the agency, both Democrats, and Mr. Hebert wound up voting for the controls adopted on Wednesday night. 
The split with the Bush administration raises fresh questions about whether the president will seek to replace Mr. Hebert as chairman in coming weeks. Mr. Bush has nominated two Republicans to fill vacant slots on the commission, including Pat Wood, a longtime ally of the president who served as chief electricity regulator in Texas. Industry executives say they expect that Mr. Bush will eventually name Mr. Wood to the commission's top post.
In a reflection of how delicate the issue is, Mr. Hebert argued that the agency's action did not amount to imposing price caps. But his position appeared to rest on a semantic distinction between returning to cost-based electricity regulation (as some Californians favor) and the agency's decision to impose tactical price controls.
Among California officials, the dominant reaction was disappointment. Some state regulators and market experts said the agency was practicing upside-down economics: it has chosen to impose price limits during periods of severe scarcity, when prices theoretically ought to rise to encourage companies to build power plants and encourage people to use less electricity.
The agency, its critics argue, has chosen to ignore price abuses during times of relative abundance, when power generators, the critics say, have used artificial market power to earn high profits.
"They got it exactly wrong," said Frank Wolak, chief market supervisor for the California Independent System Operator, which runs the state's power grid. "It looks like they're doing something, but it doesn't work in real time."
Mr. Wolak has estimated that most overcharges by generators last year -- in amounts that he puts in the billions of dollars -- occurred when electricity supplies were not acutely short, meaning that the agency's price caps would have had no mitigating effect. 
The state is likely to face many emergency shortages this summer. But, Mr. Wolak said, generating companies have become adept at "gaming" the system. He predicted that they would find ways to continue to earn high profits in California.
One fear is that generating companies will arrange to sell their output to affiliates out of state. When California's transmission grid managers scramble to find supplies, the same companies will offer to sell the power back to the state, but only above the cap price. The agency's new order includes a provision that is intended to discourage this sort of abuse, known as megawatt laundering. But the agency has a weak record of enforcing such mandates, and California officials are skeptical.
The order also came under fire on other grounds. The commission said that price caps would be canceled unless California submitted a proposal to link its transmission grid to the one that serves the Western region, a priority of the agency that state officials have resisted. 
Linda Stuntz, an electricity industry lobbyist who is an expert on the agency, called that clause bizarre, arguing that it held the entire California market hostage to a technical filing requirement.
California politicians said they worried that even if the price caps were carried out as promised, relief would be too limited.
The price limits will be based on estimates of the highest operating costs of the least efficient generating plant in the state. The order as written means that companies that operate efficient generating plants could still sell power at large mark-ups during periods when caps are imposed. When the agency scrutinized the California market earlier this year, it found the high-cost generators to be justified in charging about $300 a megawatt hour for electricity, a price that is about 10 times as high as the state was paying for power a year ago. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY REGULATION (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%) FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) KAHN, JOSEPH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



770 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

Japan's New Cabinet Offers Unexpected Faces
The new prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, named one of the most eclectic cabinets in the country's history, one that included a record five women and broke with the practice of distributing ministerial appointments on the basis of factional strength in the governing Liberal Democratic Party. A1

Paring Arms Control Initiatives
The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which is responsible for verifying the 1997 treaty that bans chemical weapons, is in debt and may be forced to cut inspections in half this year because the United States and other key parties to the treaty have not paid their way, arms control experts said. A7

Ukraine Government Falls
Parliament voted overwhelmingly to dismiss Prime Minister Viktor Yushchenko and his government, deepening a political crisis and dealing a blow to the pro-reform movement that he brought with him when he took office in December 1999. A3

Chirac Investigation
Two French newspapers said a judge investigating corruption accusations against President Jacques Chirac had filed an official report saying he had evidence against Mr. Chirac but could do nothing about it because he lacked jurisdiction and the president enjoys immunity while in office. Mr. Chirac has denied involvement in illicit schemes to finance his Gaullist political party. A7

Conditional Aid for Turkey
The United States has pledged to support a fresh $10 billion emergency aid package for Turkey's troubled economy, but Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill has warned Turkey's leaders that they will not receive any more international assistance if their latest economic overhaul plan fails, people involved in the negotiations said. A8

World Briefing A8

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Healing With Stem Cells
Scientists are reporting two advances in the concept of using embryonic cells to regenerate human tissues. One holds promise for treating Type 1, or juvenile diabetes, and the other involves cloning to create an embryo whose cells can be used to repair a patient's body parts. A21

Ailing Nail Salon Patrons
Health officials said at least 110 customers at a California nail salon had developed boils and skin ulcers, apparently from a microbe growing in a footbath used for pedicures. Checks of other nail salons in California found the microbe present in the vast majority of footbaths. A22

Oldest City in the Americas
Researchers investigating a long-ignored Peruvian archaeological site, called Caral, say they have determined that it is the oldest city in the Americas, having had a complex, highly structured society that flourished at the same time that the pyramids were being built in Egypt. A6

NATIONAL A10-22

House Favors Penalty For Hurting Fetus in Assault
The House, voting 252 to 172, approved a bill that would establish criminal penalties for harming a fetus during the commission of a federal offense against a woman. Supporters called the legislation an anti-violence measure, but opponents said it was a thinly disguised effort to undermine abortion rights by granting a new legal protection to a fetus. A1

Bush's Charity Plan Assailed
President Bush's plans to finance religious groups doing charity work came under Democratic attack at a Congressional hearing that offered an outline of coming battles over whether the legislation compromises separation of church and state. A21

Judge Allows Vieques Bombing
A federal judge refused to block resumption of naval bombing on the Puerto Rican island, finding insufficient evidence that the exercises would cause "irreparable harm" to its residents. But opponents of the bombing were heartened by remarks she made concerning the effects of explosive noise and encouraging Pentagon officials to intensify discussions with Puerto Rican officials about the future of the exercises. A10

McVeigh Wanted to Kill Reno
Timothy McVeigh, who is to be executed on May 16, told Fox News that he bombed the Federal Building in Oklahoma City in 1995 after weighing a plan to assassinate Janet Reno, who was then the attorney general. A10

Racist Acts Recounted
A former girlfriend testified at the murder trial of Thomas E. Blanton Jr. that he took her on dates to Ku Klux Klan rallies, to a Klan Christmas party and to a grocery store parking lot where she watched him pour acid on the seats of black motorists' cars. She also said she once watched him steer his car toward a black pedestrian, sending the man diving for the curb. Mr. Blanton is charged in the 1963 bombing of a black church in Birmingham, Ala., that killed four girls. A10

Ailing Doctor Homeward Bound
A twin-engine propeller plane took Ronald S. Shemenski to Chile in a rare and risky out-of-season flight from an Antarctic research station. Dr. Shemenski is to take a commercial airline flight to the United States for medical treatment. A15

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Kerik Won't Penalize Officers in Diallo Killing
Police Commissioner Bernard B. Kerik has decided to accept the recommendations of investigators and will not discipline the four officers who killed Amadou Diallo, but he will order them to be retrained in tactics, high-ranking police officials said. A1

Setback to Gun Liability Suit
The state's highest court ruled that the gun industry cannot generally be held liable for shootings involving illegal gun sales, a decision that will probably result in the overturning of a landmark verdict won by a firearms victim two years ago. A1

Verniero Avoids Impeachment
Speaker Jack Collins refused to allow impeachment proceedings against Justice Peter G. Verniero of the New Jersey Supreme Court, saying it was up to state senators to seek sanctions for the misleading testimony on racial profiling they say he gave at his confirmation hearings. B1

Confession Is Questioned
The police may have improperly obtained the confession of John B. Taylor, who is charged in the killing of five workers at a Wendy's restaurant in Queens last year, according to documents filed by the defense. B1

Trade Center Turnover
A group led by Larry A. Silverstein, a developer, and Westfield America, an owner of shopping centers, signed a contract to take control of the 110-story World Trade Center complex in a deal worth $3.2 billion. B1

Tough Questions for Kerrey
Bob Kerrey, appearing alternately anguished and angry at a news conference, defended his recollection of a mission he led in Vietnam that caused the deaths of 13 to 20 civilians. Trustees of the New School University, where he is president, expressed "unqualified support" for Mr. Kerrey. B4

WEEKEND E1-26; E27-40

SPORTS D1-8

Devils and Knicks Falter
Toronto beat the Devils, 2-0, in Game 1 of the N.H.L. Eastern semifinals. The Knicks fell to Toronto, 94-74, to leave their first-round N.B.A. playoff series tied at 1-1. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

I.B.M.'s Tiniest Transistors
I.B.M. scientists have created a vast assembly of transistors using a new material only a few molecules wide, taking a significant step toward computers far tinier and more powerful than those used today. The advance, to be reported today in Science magazine, is the first case in which researchers have harnessed this material for electronics. A1

I.B.M. plans to invest billions of dollars in designing computers and networking products that would adjust to changing workloads, recognize faults and repair themselves without human intervention. C1

Retreat on Music Copying
A group of computer scientists who successfully defeated an industry copy-protection system bowed to threats of litigation from the recording industry and withdrew their paper detailing their research from a scientific conference. C5

New Target for Car Thieves
Some luxury-car owners are discovering that their costly high-intensity headlamps are coveted by thieves. F1

Higher Offer for De Beers
The Oppenheimer family and its partners raised the cash portion of their offer for De Beers by $2, to $16.40 a share, or $18.2 billion, after some major shareholders said they would oppose the original offer. W1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

OBITUARIES C13

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: Blocking judicial ideologues; policy adjustments on Taiwan; redemption of Sudanese slaves.

Columns: Gail Collins, Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E39
TV Listings E25
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (85%); NAIL SALONS (85%); INSPECTIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); HISTORY (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); HISTORIC SITES (72%); CORRUPTION (72%); CRIMES AGAINST PERSONS (72%); ARCHAEOLOGY (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); CLONING (68%); APPROVALS (67%); JURISDICTION (67%); DIABETES (67%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (60%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (56%); SKIN DISORDERS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR THE PROHIBITION OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS (57%)

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (76%); VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (92%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001 



771 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: Depression's Lessons 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In "Purging the Rottenness" (column, April 25), Paul Krugman correctly advises Japan's new prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, to inflate the yen. The Bank of Japan tries to expand the economy with a zero-interest-rate policy. 
The side effect has been to deflate the yen, which only the mild inflation Mr. Krugman suggests can cure. 
 Mr. Krugman errs, though, when he blasts Andrew Mellon, Herbert Hoover's Treasury secretary, for his 1930 advice on what was still a recession: "Liquidate labor, liquidate stocks, liquidate the farmers, liquidate real estate."
That was good advice, as Hoover's Smoot-Hawley Tariff had caused an "inventory recession." Goods already produced had piled up against the high tariff wall, as foreigners could not afford to buy them when they could no longer export to us. The inventories had to sell off, which meant that all factors had to become more liquid, a brief condition. Hoover instead raised taxes, producing the Great Depression. 

JUDE WANNISKI
Morristown, N.J., April 25, 2001

The writer is a political economist.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (73%); TRENDS (67%); INTEREST RATES (56%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CURRENCY 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (58%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (90%) WANNISKI, JUDE; KRUGMAN, PAUL; KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001 



772 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1649 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: Cutting Edge in aBackwater; 
Phone Company On Isle of Man Aims to Unite The Internet And Wireless

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: DOUGLAS, Isle of Man 

 BODY:
This blip of an island in the Irish Sea has muscled its way to a latter-day prosperity through such attractions as ever-lower taxes, offshore banking and motorcycle races around the twisting roads that gird its hilly interior. 
 Now the island's phone company, Manx Telecom, a unit of British Telecommunications, is racing forward in its own ambitious quest: to introduce the world's first phone network using the much-promoted new technology that European telecommunications operators have cast as their holy grail, uniting wireless mobility with the breadth of the Internet. 
 The battle had been viewed as a David-and-Goliath contest, stacked in favor of Manx's main rival, Japan's mighty NTT DoCoMo. But when DoCoMo announced on Tuesday that it would postpone its introduction of the so-called third-generation phones until October, the odds were reversed. "We might consider this to be good news -- we have now got more chance of being first," said Mark Briers, who is heading the Manx project. "But for the industry, it's a shame. And we still want to prove that third-generation works." 
Manx Telecom plans to begin distributing in May handsets capable of hooking up to the Internet at speeds far beyond those currently available on wireless devices, and of someday transmitting music, video, restaurant menus, games and e-mail along with the sound of the user's voice.
Yet the tiny scale of the project is as much a symbol of how all the hype surrounding third generation, or 3G, wireless technology has fizzled as it is an emblem of Europe's vaunted lead over the United States in wireless technology.
Unlike other European operators, Manx Telecom got its 3G license free, and the big players -- from Britain to Japan -- have all announced delays, in large part because handsets are in short supply and networks are still being built.
Only 200 of the wireless devices will be made available in the initial rollout on the Isle of Man -- and most of those will be given to a select band of pioneers -- for what is basically a pilot project that will allow British Telecom to iron out any glitches before the new technology is introduced across Britain and the Continent next year.
Manx Telecom said the phones, which are eventually supposed to provide novelties like video phone calls and Internet games across this island of just 227 square miles, with a population of 75,000, will not be available in larger volume for maybe another year. With a considerably larger market, NTT DoCoMo said initially that it would sell 10,000 handsets, but that has been scaled back to 4,000.
In what some analysts depict as one of Europe's biggest corporate missteps, the early mad dash to buy licenses and build networks has left telephone operators saddled with some $330 billion of debt. That has lowered their credit ratings and crimped their ability to invest in the networks they once portrayed as the way of the future. Some European operators are seeking changes in competition laws to allow them to share the cost of the networks.
Just a year ago, telecommunications operators were scrambling to buy a seat at the 3G table, paying a total of some $100 billion for the permits. In Britain, British Telecom, Vodafone and others paid some $35 billion for the 20-year licenses. Auctions in Germany followed, with the government there netting $46 billion. But investor confidence waned, as phone companies realized that the licenses committed them to spending much more to build networks than they were likely to earn from the new technology in the first few years. Indeed, some analysts say networks will not be built on the kind of scale that might coax forth a profit until 2005.
Auctions in Italy, Austria, Switzerland and the Netherlands late last year were disappointing. In Belgium and France, according to a recent study by the European Commission, license sales attracted fewer buyers than the number of licenses on offer.
Companies that did bite have suffered. In the last year, British Telecom's stock has fallen by almost half -- a factor that contributed mightily to Thursday's ouster of its chairman, Sir Iain Vallance -- and Vodafone fell by a more than a third. With the fall in stock prices, operators cranked back the breakneck speed of acquisitions that culminated in Vodafone's $170 billion takeover of Mannesmann A.G. in 2000. In the Netherlands, Royal KPN's credit rating was cut to just two notches above junk status.
Handset manufacturers have also been feeling pain. Though Nokia of Finland, the world leader, remains strong, Ericsson of Sweden, a leader in 3G handset and network equipment orders, has announced plans to eliminate 12,000 jobs and Motorola has said it will shed 7,000 jobs as demand for the current digital wireless technology has softened.
The combination of debt and reduced expectations of income from the 3G phones has left phone companies in another bind: without the cash to buy large numbers of handsets at cheap prices, they cannot create a mass market, and that will further hinder their earnings ability. And troubled manufacturers like Ericsson do not want to build large numbers of devices for fear of creating warehouses full of phones.
"The risk is that you won't be able to get them out because there are so few networks," said Gunnar Liljegren, a director of corporate marketing at Ericsson. "There's a little bit of a Catch-22."
Such are the scaled-down expectations that both Vodafone and British Telecom plan to introduce a kind of halfway technology called General Packet Radio Service. G.P.R.S. will provide some improvements -- including relatively high-speed e-mail and data transfer -- over current wireless technology without the costs, and all the bells and whistles, of the full third-generation technology.
British Telecom says it will be the first to start selling G.P.R.S. next month in Britain. Vodafone says it will combine G.P.R.S. and third-generation phones on dual-use handsets when it introduces the fastest mobiles in the second half of next year. But even this technology is likely to be delayed, along with its potential for profits, some analysts say.
All these travails have left some denizens of the Isle of Man feeling pretty smug.
"We actually gave our license away" before Europe's first splurge of auctions, said David North, the minister of trade and industry for the island's largely autonomous government, which has even declined membership in the European Union. "At least, in our case, no one can claim that the cost of the license was prohibitive."
The third-generation phones will mix nicely with the island's cocktail of low taxes, offshore status and government grants to start-ups, providing a big lure to online businesses, said Tim Craine, the island's director of e-commerce, who has a $17 million annual budget to persuade Internet-related companies to do business here. As a very advanced part of the wired world, added Mr. North, the trade minister, "the water around the island disappears."
According to Mr. Briers, the British Telecom executive leading the Isle of Man project, the government's decision to grant the license "gave us six to eight months to get ahead of the game" by building a network, ordering handsets from NEC of Japan, creating a local Internet portal and setting up an innovative Web-linked billing system.
Of course, no one is pretending that this tiny island is much more than a test-bed where British Telecom and its partners can study some of the many 3G imponderables. At present, for instance, the technology does not allow users to "roam" from one European country to another as current mobile phones do. The transmission speeds, theoretically up to 40 times the speeds of current wireless devices, will not actually be nearly as quick, Mr. Liljegren of Ericsson said. Some analysts say the technology is far less developed than operators suggest. And most of all, no one is quite sure whether consumers really want the 3G services enough to make them profitable.
In part, wireless operators are banking on past success for future riches. At the beginning of the year, nearly 70 percent of the European Union's 350 million citizens had a mobile phone, according to the study from the European Commission. Mobile communications brought in some $170 billion last year, almost one-third of Europe's entire telecommunications market, and the cell phone business grew 12.5 percent -- five times the forecast rate for overall economic growth. And all this is happening in an industry whose prospects were initially treated with some of the same skepticism the new technology now generates.
"I think history is going to repeat itself on this," Mr. Briers said. At the rollout, 3G users here will be able to make voice calls to one another, he said, but that will soon expand into video calls, where callers can see each other on an add-on screen; online news and sports; and features based on satellite navigation to guide people around the island, from restaurants to, say, fairy glens and other idiosyncratic tourist sites.
But for all that the island may gain from new technology, such topics are lately well off the radar screen of many locals.
Instead, what is on people's mind here is the news that Isle of Man authorities just decided to cancel the decades-old, world-famous TT motorcycle race to prevent foot-and-mouth disease from spreading to the island via any of the 40,000 expected visitors. The two weeks of motorcycle trials and races, which were to begin May 28, represent by far the biggest income earner of the year for many low-tech businesses, from pubs and T-shirt vendors to taxicabs and campsites.
"It's very bad news for the island," said Alan Rogers, who runs a cab company, Motion Enterprises. "It's really looking like a bad year."
Will 3G help lift the gloom? "No one has seen any of the new phones yet," Mr. Rogers said. "There isn't much excitement about them."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The shore along Douglas, capital of the Isle of Man, may seem a bit sleepy, but the island has found creative ways to prosper in recent years, from offshore banking to working its way toward the front of the high-technology pack. (Photographs by Carlos Lopez-Barillas for The New York Times) Maps of Isle of Man highlighting Douglas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); 3G WIRELESS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); WIRELESS REGULATION (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (70%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (66%); MUSIC (65%); RESTAURANTS (64%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CELLULAR TELEPHONES 

COMPANY: NTT DOCOMO INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC; MANX TELECOM 

TICKER: NDCM (LSE) (94%); DCM (NYSE) (94%); 9437 (TSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (94%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%)

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) ISLE OF MAN (96%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) ISLE OF MAN

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001 



773 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Earnings Decline by 16% At Taiwan Semiconductor

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, April 27 

 BODY:
In a sign of how hard the slowdown in American technology spending has pinched Asian suppliers, Taiwan's largest chip maker, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing, said today that its net income declined 16.6 percent in the first quarter.
 The company also said that it expected to use less than half its production capacity in the current quarter, which analysts say will be the nadir of the downturn. 
 Taiwan Semiconductor's results were below even the reduced expectations of analysts. And the company's report capped a week of dismal economic news from Taiwan, which reported sharply slowing growth and its highest unemployment rate since 1985. 
"All of us have been really stunned by the depth of this decline and how great the pain has been," said Matt Cleary, the newly appointed head of Asian technology research at Lehman Brothers in Taipei.
As the world's largest semiconductor foundry company -- supplying chips under contract to other manufacturers -- Taiwan Semiconductor is something of a bellwether for Asia's technology industry. The region's other chip and computer makers are reporting similarly steep declines in output.
Morris Chang, the chairman of Taiwan Semiconductor, said in a briefing for investors that the industry's prospects were still murky. But he predicted that the third quarter would be stronger than the second quarter.
In the meantime, Taiwan Semiconductor is halting its ambitious building program. Mr. Chang said the company would delay the construction of two chip factories in southern Taiwan.
The plunge in demand comes at an awkward time for Taiwan Semiconductor. It acquired several chip manufacturers last year to expand its production capacity to 3.2 million silicon wafers from 2.8 million.
In an interview early last year, Mr. Chang said that even with the greater capacity, Taiwan Semiconductor would not be able to keep up with demand. He estimated that demand would top 5.5 million wafers this year.
Yet in the first quarter, Taiwan Semiconductor used only 70 percent of its production capacity. And this quarter, Mr. Chang predicted that more than half the company's assembly lines would be idle.
Unlike other foundries, Taiwan Semiconductor does not try to keep its factories busy during slack times by churning out memory chips. Mr. Chang prefers to make only the more sophisticated logic chips.
"They're really exposed in terms of capacity," Mr. Cleary said.
In other ways, Taiwan Semiconductor's woes simply mirror the broader problems in the economy. Taiwan's government has scaled back its forecast for 2001 economic growth three times, to 5.25 percent. With technology exports continuing to fall, some economists said that number was optimistic.
Taiwan's output of technology hardware -- laptop and desktop computers, monitors and the like -- declined for the first time ever in the first quarter of this year, according to the Institute for Information Industry.
The statistics are so grim that they have spilled over into Taiwan's politics. The United States agreed earlier this week to sell Taiwan an array of weapons, including destroyers and submarines. But some politicians questioned whether Taiwan could afford to buy the arms being offered.
Mr. Cleary of Lehman Brothers sees a glimmer of hope amid the gloom. He noted that new technologies, like wireless Internet access, demanded high levels of microprocessing power on a mass scale.
"We've got a significant hangover to sleep off," Mr. Cleary said, but added that a company like Taiwan Semiconductor was "very well placed for this new world." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (93%); ELECTRONICS (93%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); PLANT CAPACITY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); MEMORY CHIPS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (70%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (66%); EXPORT TRADE (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER CHIPS; COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING CO LTD (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING CO 

TICKER: TSM (NYSE) (91%); TSFA (FRA) (91%); 2330 (TAIEX) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%) SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES; 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%) TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (91%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (79%) TAIWAN

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001 



774 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
A Rally as Growth Report Stirs Optimism

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday, wiping out the Dow Jones industrial average's year-to-date loss, after a report that showed the economy grew faster than expected in the first quarter bolstered optimism that corporate profits would rebound.
 Intel, Wal-Mart Stores and Citigroup lifted the Dow, which had fallen as much as 13 percent for the year at its March 22 low. 
 VeriSign Inc., a manager of Web site addresses, climbed after saying it would meet second-quarter earnings forecasts. 
"There's a little more optimism that the economy is not as bad as we previously thought and that we'll skirt by a recession," said Jim Luke, who manages the $200 million BB&T Large Company Growth Fund in Raleigh, N.C. 
The Dow advanced 117.70 points, or 1.1 percent, to 10,810.05, giving it a 0.2 percent gain in 2001. The last time it closed with a positive return for the year was March 8.
The Nasdaq composite index rose 40.80 points, or 2 percent, to 2,075.68. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 18.53 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,253.05.
Even after yesterday's gain, the Nasdaq had its first losing week in three, falling 4.1 percent. The S.& P. 500 rose 0.8 percent, while the Dow gained 2.2 percent for their third consecutive week of gains. For the year, the Nasdaq has lost 16 percent and the S.& P. index 5.1 percent.
Almost two stocks rose for every one that fell on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq. About 1.1 billion shares traded on the Big Board, 11 percent below the three-month daily average.
"People are beginning to feel a little more confident that the economy hasn't been going into a black hole and the worst in technology is behind us," said Jay Tracey, chief investment officer at Berger Associates Inc. in Denver, which oversees $7 billion. 
Intel, the biggest computer chip maker, gained $1.54, to $30.18. Other semiconductor companies advanced. Applied Materials jumped $3.05, to $53.89, and Texas Instruments rose $2.48, to $36.98.
Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, rose $1.59, to $52.83; Target, the third-largest discounter, climbed $1.61, to $39.16; and the nation's biggest department store company, Sears, Roebuck gained $1.92, to $37.60.
Citigroup, the largest United States financial services company, advanced $1.40, to $50.91; Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, the biggest securities firm by market value, rose $2.44, to $65.30; and American Express, the fourth-largest issuer of credit and charge cards, gained $1.84, to $43.74.
VeriSign rose $5.69, to $51.91. The company said first-quarter sales rose more than sixfold as renewal rates for Web addresses beat its forecasts. Dana Evan, chief financial officer, said the company expected to meet analysts' forecasts for second-quarter earnings of 14 cents a share.
Treasury bond prices tumbled after the G.D.P. report dampened hopes for Federal Reserve interest rate cuts.
Bond investors "want validation that there's going to be a recession, and they were shocked when they didn't get it," said Robert Smith, chief investment officer at Sage Advisory Services in Austin, Tex., which has $1.7 billion in bonds.
The 10-year Treasury note fell 1 4/32, to a price of 97 18/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 5.32 percent from 5.17 percent on Thursday.
The 30-year Treasury bond fell 1 14/32, to 94. Its yield rose to 5.80 percent from 5.70 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BOND MARKETS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MICROPROCESSORS (77%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (77%); DEPARTMENT STORES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); COMPUTER CHIPS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (66%); PUBLIC DEBT (63%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (61%); INTEREST RATES (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: VERISIGN INC (83%); WAL-MART STORES INC (73%); BERGER ASSOCIATES INC (63%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); INTEL CORP (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (52%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (51%)

TICKER: VRSN (NASDAQ) (83%); WMT (NYSE) (73%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); TXN (NASDAQ) (52%); MS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (83%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (83%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (83%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (83%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (73%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (52%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001 



775 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Kerrey's Role at New School Re-examined 

BYLINE:  By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
The central patio of New School University was quiet yesterday, as if nothing momentous had occurred to shake the university. A handful of students sat in the warm sunshine, sipping coffee and catching up on homework and year-end projects. 
 But on the eighth floor, Bob Kerrey, the university's president, looking haggard and tired, was grappling with the enormous fallout from his disclosure in recent days that a mission he led in Vietnam for which he had been awarded a Bronze Star had killed more than a dozen unarmed women and children. 
 It was only a few months ago that many at New School celebrated their success at landing him as president: a Vietnam war hero, a successful businessman, a former senator and a possible presidential candidate. 
To many associated with the university, Mr. Kerrey, a liberal and a maverick, seemed just the person to tell the story of New School and its historic commitment to progressive ideals and the downtrodden.
They hoped that his celebrity status would bring attention and money to the 82-year-old university, which built its renowned graduate school -- formerly known as the New School for Social Research -- around the scores of intellectuals it helped escape from Hitler's Europe.
Now, however, students and faculty members are wrestling with what Mr. Kerrey's disclosures will mean for him and for them, and whether his role as front man will somehow be tainted.
"This whole event confirms my misgivings about the bad fit between Bob Kerrey and an institution that grew out of the antiwar movement," said Miguel Kanai, a student at New School's graduate school of management and urban policy, referring to the antiwar sentiments of some of its founders.
"I don't know what would be more harmful to the university, his resigning or not resigning." 
But his classmate, Christopher Portelli, disagreed, saying that the explosion over Mr. Kerrey's disclosures reflected America's problems with an unpopular war.
"Vietnam is still such a difficult thing for Americans to deal with," he said. "I don't see why it comes as any surprise that as a decorated soldier, he was associated with terrible events."
In the short time since February, when he was installed at Carnegie Hall as president of New School, Mr. Kerrey had begun to meet with faculty members and students; there are 7,000 students in degree programs and 25,000 in nondegree programs at the school.
Mr. Kerry also reached out to alumni and other potential donors. But that process was shattered this week as he turned his attention to the revelations about his role in Vietnam.
The university's board has strongly backed Mr. Kerrey. John L. Tishman, the board chairman, said yesterday that Mr. Kerrey's "character is impeccable and speaks for itself."
But Mr. Kerrey, during a brief interview yesterday in his office on West 12th Street in Greenwich Village, said it was too early to predict how events would unfold.
"I leave it to the board to decide whether or not my role here will be impaired," he said. "And I have said from the beginning that whatever the consequences, I'm prepared to tolerate them. I'm not uncomfortable."
The one thing he was certain of, he said, was that the events of the last few days would "unquestionably affect my role here." He plans to talk to students and faculty members next week, and said he hoped eventually to use the issues raised by his disclosures to encourage discussion of the war -- "to try to turn this into something good."
The disclosures have already prompted some discussion. On the patio steps Thursday evening, some students from the Actors Studio Drama School, a New School division, said they were saddened by the revelations but still admired Mr. Kerrey.
"In no way do I condone what happened," said Christopher, a third-year acting student, who spoke on the condition that his last name not be used. "But Vietnam is still a huge wound that we've never been able to fix."
He said he understood how Mr. Kerrey might not have been able to discuss what had happened during the raid since his father had also fought in Vietnam "and is still not able to talk about it and he still has nightmares."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob Kerrey says his disclosures about Vietnam will affect his role as president of New School University. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); VIETNAM WAR (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); CELEBRITIES (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (54%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) VIETNAM WAR 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW SCHOOL UNIVERSITY 

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W; KERREY, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIET NAM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001 



776 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: F.B.I. Warns That Chinese May Disrupt U.S. Web Sites 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 27 

 BODY:
With tensions between China and the United States spilling into cyberspace, the F.B.I. warned on Thursday that Chinese hackers might mount strikes against American Web sites over the next week.
 And Pentagon officials, pointing to threats in public chat rooms as well as new defacements of American Web sites, ordered all their computer managers to take additional precautions to protect against any attempt by Chinese hackers to break into Defense Department systems. 
 "Hackers already have unlawfully defaced a number of U.S. Web sites, replacing existing content with pro-Chinese or anti-U.S. rhetoric," said the F.B.I. advisory.
But as in all conflicts, there are two sides to this latest one. 
While American officials complain that Chinese, possibly abetted by their government, are taking out their resentment on the Internet, independent monitors say the Chinese are responding to attacks on their own Web sites.
Michael Cheek, managing editor of publications for iDefense, a cyberintelligence company, said today that 302 of the 307 publicly known cyberattacks between the two countries were against Chinese Web sites and expressed pro-American stands. 
Most of those defacements of Chinese sites were slogans written in support of the 24 crew members of the American spy plane who were held on Hainan island earlier this month after a midair collision with a Chinese fighter jet. That standoff set off the latest diplomatic crisis between China and the United States.
Pro-Chinese messages appearing on American Web sites, including a Navy procurement site, carry more sophisticated messages, said James Adams, the chief executive officer of iDefense and a member of the advisory board of the National Security Agency.
"There is no question that China is sponsoring these attacks," said Mr. Adams. "The difference between American hackers and Chinese hackers is that the Chinese government has a pretty good history of sponsoring attacks using surrogates."
That history dates back to the 1996 presidential election on Taiwan, when Chinese hackers took aim at Taiwan sites. They repeated their attacks during the 2000 elections, but Taiwan threatened to unleash 7,000 viruses on Chinese government sites if the attacks continued. They ended.
Japan became a target last February, when Chinese hackers protested a Japanese conference on World War II that Chinese officials said amounted to a whitewash of Japan's role in the massacre of thousands of Chinese civilians at Nanjing in 1937.
"Basically, every time there is a national crisis, Chinese hackers will challenge the other country's Web sites," said Barrett McCormick Jr., a political scientist and China specialist at Marquette University.
With bravado, pro-Chinese hackers have said in chat rooms that they will attack American Web sites from next Monday through May 7. Those days include International Workers Day on May 1, China's Youth Day on May 4 and the anniversary of the NATO bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade in 1999. 
These Chinese hackers, who have identified themselves as the "Hacker Union of China," could also unleash a computer virus, according to the F.B.I. advisory. The worm virus called Lion has already infected several computers in the United States and seems to be affiliated with an e-mail address in China.
"Chinese Web sites tend to be hot places, attracting the most militant people," said Edward Friedman, a China scholar at the University of Wisconsin. "Don't forget that during the recent crisis over Hainan island, the Chinese government tried to censor Chinese Web sites to prevent the militants from taking to the streets."
But defense and national security officials say that the current threats against American sites could be backed by the Chinese government, which has developed its own computer-warfare programs. 
The United States military, for its part, has held two training exercises to prepare defenses against a cyberattack. The fear is that a foreign power could disrupt the country's economic or defense chain by sabotage through the Internet.
But the threats are coming from drug dealers and shady businessmen as well as foreign governments and independent hackers. Already this year the F.B.I. has warned that Russian and Ukrainian hackers are targeting American sites for e-commerce and e-banking. 
Experts like Mr. Adams say it is nearly impossible at the moment to stop crime or deter foreign sabotage on the chaotic, borderless electronic battlefield.
"If they steal our money or shoot our people, we have the means to make them pay a price," Mr. Adams said. "But in the cyberworld they can do what they like, turn off their computers and go home to bed." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CRIME (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (85%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); CHAT ROOMS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CYBERCRIME (78%); WEB SITES (78%); ESPIONAGE (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); ELECTRONIC PROCUREMENT (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (68%); WORLD WAR II (64%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY AIRCRAFT 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 

PERSON: BECKER, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%) SOUTH CHINA (92%); JIANGSU, CHINA (58%); HAINAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); TAIWAN (93%); JAPAN (92%); SERBIA (79%) CHINA; HAINAN ISLAND (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001 



777 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Germany Looks Like Europe's Weak Economic Link

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, April 27 

 BODY:
Germany is Europe's biggest economy by far, but it looks increasingly like its weakest link.
 German economic growth has lagged the European average for years now, not as strong in good times and slumping more seriously in bad times. While Europe as a whole has been creating jobs at a remarkable pace in the last few years, Germany still has a big pool of long-term unemployed workers. 
 And now, as Europeans nervously ponder their chances of escaping the worst effects of a slowdown in the United States, Germany is once again the Continent's biggest source of anemia. And because Germany amounts to a third of the economic output for the 12-nation euro-zone, its weakness drags down the entire region. 
Today, reluctantly acknowledging what most private economists have been saying for nearly two months now, the German government sharply cut its forecast for economic growth this year, to 2 percent from 2.75 percent. By contrast, the European Commission and most private experts predict that Europe as a whole will still expand about 2.5 percent. French growth is running closer to 3 percent this year, while smaller countries like Spain, Portugal, the Netherlands and Finland are even more dynamic.
But what is more striking is how Germany has been consistently slower to expand than most of its neighbors for at least the last five years. The country is still suffering from an economic hangover after the euphoric unification of East and West Germany in 1990. Despite hundreds of billions of marks in public money pumped into the east, joblessness still averages about 17 percent in the former Communist states.
And thanks to misconceived tax breaks to subsidize construction, the eastern states are still swamped with sparkling but under-used office buildings, shopping malls, industrial parks and apartment buildings. For the last four years, as the real estate market has worked through the imbalances, the German construction industry has been mired in a deep recession.
But those factors do not explain the whole problem, economists say. Germany has also been slowed by the lack of an overhaul of its economy. Its labor markets are still very tightly regulated, making companies hesitant to add to their work forces here and much more willing to shift their investment to Central Europe, Asia and the United States.
During the last decade, Germany's average annual growth rate has been just 1.5 percent. Its ability to generate new jobs has been about half that of Europe as a whole, which itself has been persistently slower than the United States. And while the country remains one of the world's biggest exporters of heavy machinery, automobiles and industrial equipment, German consumers have been plagued by rising taxes and anxiety about the future. Even last year, when the country had its best year in a decade and expanded by 3 percent, ordinary Germans held on to their wallets and showed little enthusiasm for celebrating.
"Europe is experiencing a slowdown, but the real problem is on our side," said Jurgen Pfister, head of economic research at Commerzbank in Frankfurt.
Though noting that the recession in German construction has been a problem for the last four years, Mr. Pfister said the broader problem was that Germany had deeply rooted difficulties in generating jobs.
German laws give workers extensive protection against being laid off. Industrywide collective bargaining agreements give companies little ability to negotiate better terms with labor unions. And new legislation aimed at giving workers more say on many management issues has added to the frustrations of employers who want more rather than less flexibility.
During the last five years, Mr. Pfister said, Germany has increased the overall number of jobs by only 0.7 percent a year -- less than half the rate for the rest of Europe and a tiny fraction of the rate in the United States. And many if not most of the new jobs were part time. The total number of hours worked in Germany barely increased at all.
That picture contrasts markedly with France and many other countries in Europe. French unemployment has plunged from more than 12 percent four years ago to about 8.8 percent today. Hundreds of thousands of jobs have been created in the last year alone. In the Netherlands, joblessness has sunk to just 2.4 percent, and the country is recruiting construction workers from eastern Germany.
But Germany has enjoyed only a small part of that European boom.
"The problem is that there is a mismatch in the labor market," said Reinhold Kudiss, an economist at the German Federation of Industry in Berlin. "Forty percent of the people who are unemployed are long-term unemployed, people who have no skills or who do not have the right skills." 
German corporations are desperately hunting engineers, managers and people skilled in information technology, but they are doing little hiring over all.
That is part of the reason that consumers have been so reluctant to spend money. But it is not the only one. Under relentless competitive pressure from other countries, which have drawn manufacturers by offering low-paid labor, German workers have settled for extremely modest wage increases for the last five years. Real wages, after accounting for inflation, have been stagnant since the mid-1990's. But taxes increased through much of that period, so disposable income for many workers actually declined.
Last year, in a bold break from past policies, the center-left government under Chancellor Gerhard Schroder pushed through a tax reduction that will total about $20 billion. But it also imposed a series of new "eco-taxes" on gasoline, which took effect just as oil prices were shooting to $30 a barrel last year.
The result, at least so far, is that consumers remained as cautious as ever about spending money. Apparently deterred by the sharp increases in gasoline prices, Germans bought far fewer cars last year even though the economy was doing well.
To be sure, many other European countries have high taxes and often rigid labor regulations. But even France, with its history of tough regulation and a socialist government in power, has given companies much greater flexibility by letting them hire workers on temporary contracts. The Netherlands has become one of the world's leading employers of part-time workers.
"In practice, things have been changing in other countries," said Willi Leibfritz, head of forecasting at the Ifo Institute for Economic Research in Munich. "When I look at France, I see things happening below the surface that are not officially labeled as flexibility but which have that effect." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); EURO ZONE (79%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TRENDS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (74%); EURO (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (68%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (68%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); EXPORT TRADE (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); RETAILERS (63%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (63%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (63%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (56%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (79%); ASIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); FINLAND (79%); PORTUGAL (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%) GERMANY; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001 



778 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: As Door to Amnesty Closes, Immigrants Rush to Qualify 

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS 

 BODY:
The door is about to close on the opportunity of a lifetime for many illegal immigrants: the chance to become a legal permanent resident without first leaving their families and jobs in the United States.
 The deadline to apply for the benefit is Monday, and frenzy is in the air. 
 Legal aid groups, churches, law offices and community organizations that serve immigrants have been swamped for weeks. So have marriage license bureaus in New York City and across the country, as immigrants rush to marry in order to profit from having a spouse who can sponsor them for a green card, which confers legal residency. 
A toll-free hot line run by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, (800) 375-5283, has been getting an average of one million calls each month for the last three months, a big jump from the usual 750,000. And in March, the agency received well in excess of 130,000 applications for family reunification visas -- more than during any other month in its history.
The agency will not have exact figures on how many people applied to take advantage of the special immigration benefit for several months, said Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for the immigration service. At least 640,000 people nationwide are thought to be eligible.
The law that has so many thousands in a panic was passed at the end of last year, after advocates for immigrants were unable to convince Congress to extend a general amnesty to the estimated 6.5 million illegal immigrants around the country.
Instead, a more limited reprieve was offered to immigrants who would qualify for legal status were it not for the fact that they broke the law by entering or staying in the country without authorization.
Normally, American citizens and those with green cards can sponsor a close relative in another country to come and live with them. Employers in the United States can also sponsor a worker if they prove no American is available to take the job. But the foreign relative or worker has to remain outside the United States until a visa is issued.
The temporary benefit now on offer, referred to as 245(i), would permit those foreigners with family or employer sponsors to pay a $1,000 fine and apply to adjust their immigration status without having to leave the country. In most cases, they will not be able to work legally while they wait for their visas to be granted and, in theory, they remain at risk of being deported.
"We're telling people this is not a blanket amnesty," said Michael Amezquita, executive director of the Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrants Rights in Washington Heights. "Getting in your application before the April 30 deadline will not preclude your deportation if you are caught in a raid or something like that."
Nevertheless, response to the 245(i) opportunity has overwhelmed most of the organizations that provide immigrant services. And just as people wait until the last minute to file their taxes, many immigrants dawdled and now are scrambling to get help.
This week, Marvin Sacaza Ortiz, a 29-year-old Honduran immigrant, camped out on the doorstep of the Northern Manhattan Coalition at 4 a.m., hours before it was to open. That was the only way, he decided, to get an appointment with a counselor who could help him file the paperwork to sponsor his wife.
Even so, he was the third in line.
Mr. Ortiz has a green card, but his wife, Greicy Castillo, is here illegally. If she leaves, she would be penalized for staying without papers and barred from re-entry for 10 years.
"At the beginning, we didn't want to go through all this trouble," Mr. Ortiz said. "But then we started thinking that it would be worth it. When she has papers she can go back to school and she can travel to see her mother in Honduras."
Many public officials have argued that the 245(i) program should be offered for a longer period or made permanent. At least four bills are now before Congress that would extend the 245(i) filing period for up to one year.
Both Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Gov. George E. Pataki have urged Congress to extend the deadline. Mr. Giuliani, in a letter to House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, said he would like to see the 245(i) option made permanent.
"With so many immigrants contributing to our society and economy," the mayor's letter said, "the present requirement for those eligible for permanent resident status to return to their countries of origin creates an unnecessary burden on many businesses that depend on this work force."
But critics of national immigration policy said programs like this send the message that immigrants do not really have to worry about breaking the law.
Dan Stein, director of the Foundation for American Immigration Reform in Washington, which advocates a more restrictive immigration policy, called it "a thousand dollar loophole."
"Laws like 245(i) encourage illegal immigration," Mr. Stein said. "The evidence is all over the place."
Immigrants were offered the same benefit program a few years ago, with a three-year period from 1994 through 1997 in which to apply. It proved a bonanza for the immigration service, which collected more than $200 million through the fines that illegal immigrants paid. About 545,000 immigrants filed applications to adjust their status.
Advocates for immigrants maintain that most illegal immigrants are in the country because they wanted to join family members or because they found jobs that Americans did not want.
"The response to this law reflects an incontrovertible truth," said Mario Russell, director of immigrant and refugee services for Catholic Charities in New York. "We want these immigrants here to work, and we benefit from their being here."
Requiring people to be in their home country to apply for a family reunification visa, he added, has not driven illegal immigrants to leave the United States.
"Let's be frank," Mr. Russell said. "If you have someone who needs a job or you have spouses who are separated, they are just not going to think that way."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marvin Sacaza Ortiz, left, sought help at the Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrants Rights with the paperwork to sponsor his wife, Greicy Castillo, for a green card before the Monday deadline. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); FAMILY (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); AMNESTY (89%); DEPORTATION (78%); LEGAL AID (78%); REFUGEES (78%); MARRIAGE LAW (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); LICENSES & PERMITS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MARRIAGE (77%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; AMNESTIES 

PERSON: SACHS, SUSAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001 



779 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Economic Growth Continues At an Annual Pace of 2%
The economy showed surprising resilience in the first three months of this year, growing at a 2 percent annual rate and extending the longest American expansion on record to a full 10 years, the government reported.
 Despite widespread concerns that a recession could be looming, overall economy activity accelerated in the first quarter. Page A1. 

Germany Is a Concern for Europe
German economic growth has lagged behind the European average for years now, not as strong in good times and slumping more seriously in bad times. And now, as Europeans nervously ponder their chances of escaping the worst effects of a slowdown in the United States, Germany is once again the Continent's biggest source of anemia. C2.

Dow Breaks Into Positive Territory
The Dow Jones industrial average wiped out its losses for the year, led by advances in Intel, Wal-Mart and Citigroup. The Dow rose 117.70 points, or 1.1 percent, to 10,810.05, giving it a 0.2 percent gain in 2001. The Nasdaq composite index rose 40.82 points, or 2 percent, to 2,075.70. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 18.53 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,253.05. For the year, the Nasdaq has lost 16 percent and the S.& P. 500 5 percent. C3.

More Discussion on Global Warming
In the wake of its rejection of an international treaty to curtail global warming, the Bush administration is seeking advice from a wide array of scientists, economists, business representatives and policy experts as it tries to forge a new approach. A10.

Poor Earnings for Taiwan Chip Maker
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing said its net income plunged 16.6 percent in the first quarter, below the reduced expectations of analysts. The results capped a week of dismal economic news from Taiwan and showed how hard the slowdown in American technology spending has pinched Asian suppliers. C2.

Strike Leads to Comair Layoffs
Comair, Delta Air Line's commuter airline, said it would lay off about 2,000 employees because of a strike by its pilots that began March 26. The layoffs affect about half of Comair's nonstriking employees, in all departments, the Cincinnati-based carrier said. C3.

$1.4 Million Investment at Airline
In a rare vote of confidence, Sir Christopher Bland, the newly appointed chairman of British Telecommunications, will invest about $1.4 million of his own money in the debt-ridden company. Sir Christopher will replace Sir Iain Vallance on Monday. C2.

An Under-40 Prize in Economics
The American Economics Association named Matthew Rabin of the University of California at Berkeley as the best economist in the United States under age 40. Mr. Rabin, 37, will receive the John Bates Clark medal, which the association awards every other year. He is the first winner to openly embrace behavioral economics, which attempts to incorporate psychology into standard economic theory. C14.

Greenspan Predicts Large Surpluses
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, predicted that the United States would produce large budget surpluses for some time, permitting it ultimately to pay off the publicly held portion of the national debt. He also offered reassurances on the effect of a dwindling supply of low-risk government debt. C3.

Software Maker to Sell Units
Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products, which makes speech-recognition and translation software, has hired Credit Suisse First Boston to help it find buyers for its units as it tries to avoid insolvency, after having trouble in attracting interest, said Philippe Bodson, the company's new chief executive. C2.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 30, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A headline in the Business Digest on Saturday about a $1.4 million investment by Sir Christopher Bland, the newly appointed chairman of British Telecommunications, referred to the company incorrectly. The investment was in telecommunications, not in an airline.

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph tracks Dow Jones Industrials daily closes from January through April.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,810.05 up 117.70Nasdaq composite -- 2,075.68 up 40.8010-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.32% up 0.15The euro -- $0.8910 down 0.0124The dollar -- 124.01 yen up 0.85

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); ELECTRONICS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); RECESSION (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); MICROPROCESSORS (73%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); CORPORATE DEBT (66%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); APPOINTMENTS (63%); AWARDS & PRIZES (62%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%); INTEL CORP (56%); TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING CO LTD (53%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (52%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); TSM (NYSE) (53%); TSFA (FRA) (53%); 2330 (TAIEX) (53%); DAL (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (94%); TAIWAN (93%); EUROPE (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001 



780 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

Japan's New Leader Plans a Full-Fledged Army
Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, in his first day in office, moved to reassure Japan's neighbors about nationalist currents in his country, while reaffirming a campaign promise to create a regular army. But he emphasized that the alliance with the United States remained the pillar of Japan's security policy and said he favored a more active role in international peacekeeping, something long urged by the United States. A8

No Consensus on 'One China'
China and Taiwan called for new talks, eight years after they began a historic but ultimately aborted dialogue on future relations. But the new pleas appeared hollow, as neither side signaled compromise on Beijing's precondition that Taiwan agree that it remains part of "one China." A8

Cyberspace Attack Alert
The F.B.I. warned that Chinese computer hackers might soon mount strikes against American Web sites, and Pentagon officials ordered stronger safeguards for Defense Department systems. Independent monitors say hackers in both countries have made cyberspace attacks. A8

Inquiry Into C.I.A. Contractor
Congressional officials say they are examining the role played by C.I.A. contract employees from Aviation Development, a company in Montgomery, Ala., as part of an investigation of Peru's downing of a flight carrying American missionaries. A4

American Sentenced in Russia
John Edward Tobin, a visiting American Fulbright scholar at Voronezh State University, was convicted of drug charges and sentenced to 37 months in a penal colony, putting an official stamp on a seemingly minor marijuana infraction that briefly raised suggestions of espionage. A3

Aid Workers Killed in Congo
Six workers of the International Committee of the Red Cross were shot and hacked to death in northeast Congo. A Red Cross spokesman said the organization did not know who had carried out the attack, the worst on the group's staff in five years. A7

World Briefing A4

NATIONAL A9-13, 16

Navy Returns to Vieques; Hundreds Mount Protests
The Navy resumed military exercises on the Puerto Rican island, sparking angry demonstrations and civil disobedience by hundreds demanding an end to bombing practice that they say harms the island's ecology and its residents' health. At least 44 people were arrested. A1

New Approach on Warming
The Bush administration, seeking a new strategy on global warming in the aftermath of its rejection of an international climate treaty, has been seeking advice from an array of scientists, economists, business representatives and policy experts. A10

What Hitler's Doctor Thought
The C.I.A. released files on several Nazis, with one document saying Hitler's own doctor believed in 1937 that the Nazi leader was a "border case between genius and insanity" with the potential of becoming the "craziest criminal the world ever knew." A11

Warning on Jet's Fuel Pump
The F.A.A. told airlines to stop using a fuel pump on the Boeing 737 in certain circumstances after concluding it might have figured in the explosion of a plane at a gate in Bangkok. A12

Suspect Talked of 'Bomb'
Jurors in the Birmingham church bombing trial heard a secretly recorded audiotape featuring the defendant, Thomas E. Blanton Jr., explaining to his wife at the time that he had gone to a Klan meeting to "plan the bomb." But the tape offered no other detail linking him to the blast, which killed four black girls. A9

4 Die in School Bus Crash
A bus carrying middle-school band members from Newton, Mass., to a music festival in Nova Scotia ran off a highway ramp in New Brunswick, Canada, killing four students and injuring several others. A13

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Space Station Computers Ailing
NASA engineers scrambled to get key computers working aboard the International Space Station, which has been crippled by the perplexing problem for much of this week. A10

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Club Owners New Targets In Drug Enforcement Effort
Law enforcement agencies and local governments around the country, frustrated by the rising popularity of Ecstasy and other illegal drugs among young nightclub revelers, are increasingly going after the clubs themselves with an array of legal tactics that club owners and some civil rights lawyers question. A1

No Guns for Diallo Officers
The four police officers involved in the killing of Amadou Diallo will not be given back their guns for the foreseeable future, Commissioner Bernard H. Kerik said. After Mr. Kerik's announcement, the Fire Department said it had decided to accept an application for firefighter from one of the officers, Edward McMellon. A1

Mixed Report on Homeless
Justice Helen E. Freedman of State Supreme Court in Manhattan said the city had redoubled efforts to put together stable shelter or permanent housing for homeless families after Mayor Giuliani was threatened with contempt of court. Still, she said the city's treatment of the families continued to violate her orders. B1

Manhunt Ends in Canada
Christopher Rocancourt, who jumped bail in the Hamptons nine months ago, running from accusations that he had bilked the well-to-do of nearly $1 million while posing as a Rockefeller, was arrested in western Canada late Thursday. B1

G.O.P. Primary Maneuverings
Bret D. Schundler suffered twin setbacks when a New Jersey refused to stop Bob Franks from entering the Republican primary for governor, and state election officials let Mr. Franks receive up to $720,000 left unspent by Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco's aborted campaign. B1

Beliefs A13

ARTS & IDEAS B9-16

SPORTS D1-8

OBITUARIES B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Economy Proves Resilient
The economy grew at a 2 percent annual rate in the first three months of the year, compared with a 1 percent rate in the fourth quarter of 2000, extending the longest American expansion on record to a full 10 years. A1

Airline Antitrust Suit Voided
A federal judge dismissed a major antitrust case in which the Justice Department had accused American Airlines of driving three competitors out of Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport by undercutting fares. C1

Delta Pact May Be in Trouble
Some Delta pilots are predicting that their union's governing board, which meets in Atlanta starting today, will reject a tentative new contract before union members can vote on it. C1

Baby-Food Merger Blocked
A federal appeals panel upheld an F.T.C. challenge to H. J. Heinz's proposed $185 million acquisition of Milnot Holdings, maker of Beech-Nut. C1

I.P.O. Price Investigation
Securities regulators are gathering information from Wall Street firms in an inquiry into whether prices of new stock offerings were manipulated at the height of the 90's boom. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: New flood, old truths; untimely exercises on Vieques; progress for tolerance in Bosnia.
Columns: Frank Rich, Anthony Lewis.

Bridge B12
TV Listings B16
Crossword B14
Weather A16
Public Lives A9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); SENTENCING (86%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (86%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); PRISONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); COMPUTER CRIME (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); CLIMATOLOGY (69%); ESPIONAGE (65%); ISLANDS & REEFS (65%); CANNABIS (65%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (65%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (64%); ARRESTS (64%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (61%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%) UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%); CHINA (93%); TAIWAN (92%); PERU (79%); PUERTO RICO (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001 



781 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Many Pilots Do Not Like Their Union's DeltaAccord 

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
Air travelers, the management of Delta Air Lines and many local and national politicians were relieved earlier this week after Delta reached a tentative contract with its pilots, averting a strike that could have disrupted air service across much of the country. 
 But many Delta pilots are not happy with the agreement, which both Delta and some union leaders have described as the best in the industry. Some pilots are even predicting that the union's governing board, which meets in Atlanta starting today to decide whether to endorse the contract, will reject it before the union's 9,800 members have a chance to vote on it. 
 "We are aware that a lot of the membership is very unhappy," said one member of the union's board, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. He said that he would wait until he heard what the negotiating team had to say before casting his vote. 
Feelings were so strong at a meeting at Delta's pilot base in Orlando, Fla., earlier this week that a group of about 100 pilots overwhelmingly passed a nonbinding resolution opposing the agreement. 
"I know people are upset, but I am not so sure that they represent a majority," said Andrew M. Deane, a Delta 767 captain and spokesman for the union. 
Rejecting the agreement could be a risky move by the union.
If the two sides had not reached an agreement before the strike deadline this weekend, President Bush was expected to appoint a presidential emergency board -- delaying a walkout for another 60 days -- as he did last month in a contract dispute between Northwest Airlines and its mechanics. 
If the union leadership rejects the deal, the two sides would have only seven days to reach a new agreement before the union could walk out. Most experts believe that the White House would step in before then. If the two sides could not reach a new deal within 60 days, then Congress could vote to impose a contract on the union. 
"If we go down that road, some things that are very dear to the pilots would be at risk," said Robert Morus, a pilot and executive vice president of the union. 
The tentative agreement promises to raise the pilots' pay 24 percent to 34 percent over four years, 1 percent higher than the top pay rates negotiated by the pilots at United Airlines last summer. Most industry analysts have complained that the deal is too rich. Delta has said that the deal will raise its current pilot costs above $4 billion a year from $1.7 billion today. 
But opponents say that the union's negotiators reneged on their promise to deliver an industry-leading contract. "It's not the best contract in the industry, period," said one pilot, speaking on the condition of anonymity, who acknowledged that he was a strong opponent of the agreement. "They mask a substandard contract with superior pay rates." 
The new agreement allows Delta to fly up to 75 70-seat regional jets, while United's contract prohibits it from flying regional jets with more than 50 seats. United agreed to protect all its pilots from layoffs. The new Delta agreement protects only the pilots at the company on the date the agreement is signed. 
But perhaps the biggest complaint is that the union's negotiators did not end a lower wage scale for pilots at Delta Express, a low-fare unit within Delta intended to compete with Southwest Airlines. The new agreement gives Delta Express pilots a nearly 63 percent pay increase but still leaves them earning about 10 percent less than other pilots at the airline. 
"The bottom line is that we made a promise not to accept the economic apartheid of a two-tier wage scale," the opposing pilot said. "We cannot perpetuate something that every other airline has eradicated." 
The meeting today will start with the union's negotiators briefing the board, which is known as the master executive council, and answering questions. A vote by the 22 pilot representatives on the council could come as early as today. But Captain Deane, the union spokesman, said the meeting would probably last three days with a vote on Monday. If a majority of the council approves the contract, it is still subject to approval by the entire membership. 
Captain Morus said that many pilots could not appreciate the political situation negotiators faced. He said that the union worked hard to prevent the White House from announcing an emergency board before the strike deadline and that the union might lose important features of the tentative agreement, like retroactive pay, if Congress were forced to intervene. 
"We never laid out how bad the politics were because we were playing a game of poker and we had to play our cards face down," he said. After the board members learn the details, their perceptions may change, he added. 
Vetoing the agreement before the union's members have a chance to vote on it is also risky because it would make the leadership vulnerable to the charge that it did not let the members decide for themselves. 
But opponents said there was no risk in rejecting the agreement because every pilots' group that had voted down a tentative agreement had always ended up with a superior final contract. --------------------

Agreement on Union Fine
FORT WORTH, April 27 (Bloomberg News) -- American Airlines, a subsidiary of AMR, reached an agreement with its pilots union today on how the Allied Pilots Association will pay a $45.5 million fine for a 1999 job action that forced thousands of flight cancellations.
American received $20 million that the union earlier placed in escrow, plus interest, the company and union said. The remaining $25.5 million will be repaid, with interest, over 15 years, the company said. American agreed to dismiss remaining litigation with the union and to drop claims against 25 individual union officers and directors. 
Federal Judge Joe Kendall imposed the award after ruling that the union ignored his order to end the 11-day job action. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 1, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Saturday about objections from some pilots at Delta Air Lines to their union's tentative contract agreement misstated its cost. If approved by the union, the contract would add a total of $2.5 billion to Delta's current pilot costs over five years, not yearly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); STRIKES (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); APPROVALS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); APPOINTMENTS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WAGES AND SALARIES; PILOTS; STRIKES 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (59%) DELTA AIR LINES; AIR LINE PILOTS ASSN 

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001 



782 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMY'S GROWTH PROVES STEADFAST ALTHOUGH MODEST 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
The economy showed surprising resilience in the first three months of this year, growing at a 2 percent annual rate and extending the longest American expansion on record to a full 10 years, the government reported yesterday.
 Even as the stock market fell and unemployment rose, consumers continued to spend more than they earned, increasing their debt levels to buy new homes, cars and other items. Their shopping slowed as the winter went on, but the solid increase was enough to overcome a sharp decline in companies' investments in new equipment. 
 Despite widespread concerns that a recession could be looming, overall economic activity accelerated in the first quarter of 2001. Still, after growing at a mere 1 percent rate in the fourth quarter of 2000, the economy has now posted its worst six months since 1995, and companies continue to cut jobs, threatening future growth, analysts said. 
Yesterday's report, said Richard D. Rippe, the chief economist for Prudential Securities, "certainly belies the notion of recession, but it also doesn't mean we're completely out of the woods."
Economists and government officials remain concerned that consumers will rein in their spending in coming months, as they began to do in February and March. At the same time, businesses could remain reluctant to buy new computers and machinery, or build communications networks and warehouses, having spent trillions of dollars expanding their operations in the 1990's.
For now, though, the evidence of stronger growth decreased the likelihood that the Federal Reserve would continue the aggressive reduction of short-term interest rates that it has pursued since January, when it made the first of four recent cuts of half a percentage point each in its target rate. With inflation picking up to around 3 percent, the Fed may see less reason to encourage new spending, economists said.
Still, with the economy still sluggish, most expect the Fed to lower interest rates by at least another quarter-point at its meeting next month and quite a few remain convinced that the central bank will make another half-point reduction.
Major stock indexes rose yesterday, as investors' optimism about the economy's health seemed to outweigh their sense that the Fed might soon turn more conservative. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 117.70 points to close at 10,810.05, up 1.1 percent.
The Commerce Department, in estimating that the annual growth rate reached 2 percent in the January-March period, ignored changes in prices to come up with its best guess of the real economic output of the economy. Including price increases, the gross domestic product -- the value of all the goods and services produced in the United States -- rose to an annual level of $10.2 trillion in the quarter, according to the department's initial report for the period.
As more data trickle in, the department will issue several more reports on the quarter. On average over the last two decades, the final number for economic growth has changed by 1.4 percentage points between the initial report and the final one, suggesting even a fairly large downward revision would be unlikely to show a shrinking economy in this year's first quarter.
Consumer spending, a driving force of the economy, rose an inflation-adjusted 3.1 percent, led by a surge in car sales as automakers offered rebates on almost every type of vehicle. Government spending rose 4 percent, and a drop in imports also helped domestic growth. But business investment fell 11.5 percent as companies canceled expansion plans and cut production to clear out their inventories.
Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans called the economy's performance in the winter quarter an improvement over the recent past and said in a statement that the growth "confirms the fundamentals of our economy are sound."
One of the most encouraging signs in the report was the quickness with which businesses were able to reduce their excess inventories as the economy slowed in recent months. As companies cut production and consumers continued to spend, the value of the goods sitting on the companies' shelves, in their warehouses and on auto dealers' lots fell by $7.1 billion, the first decline since the summer of 1991, just after the last recession ended.
"The shelves are bare," said Diane Swonk, the chief economist at Bank One and one of the optimists who say the country is already emerging from its slowdown.
"It sets the stage for even stronger growth in the second quarter and second half" of the year, she added.
But the uneven growth of the last six months has also offered a number of troubling signs that suggest to others that the current slowdown is not following a typical pattern and may worsen before it improves. 
Normally, consumers are the first group to decide to pull back. Businesses, then selling fewer goods, begin to produce less. This is what happened at the start of the last three recessions -- two almost back-to-back in the early 1980's and one in 1991 -- and during the mid-1990's slowdown.
Over the last year, by contrast, businesses have begun abandoning plans to buy software and machines even as consumers have continued to spend their money at a fairly fast pace. As a result, companies like Cisco Systems and Oracle that sell mainly to other companies have suffered more than retailers or automakers.
"We may be experiencing the first postwar slowdown led and directed more by the business sector than the household sector," said James W. Paulsen, the chief investment officer of Wells Capital Management, an investment firm.
In the first quarter, business investment in new equipment and software fell 2.1 percent at an annual rate and has now dropped for two consecutive quarters, after not having declined once between 1991 and late 1999. Spending on information technology alone has reversed directions even more sharply. It fell 6.4 percent last quarter after growing an average of 24 percent each quarter during 1999 and 2000.
"That is a collapse of huge magnitude," said Allen Sinai, the chief global economist of Decision Economics. "It is a big deal," he added, because business spending on information technology now accounts for more than 7 percent of the economy, nearly double its portion a decade ago.
In addition, a slump in investment often lasts longer than a slowdown created by an inventory buildup because companies can sell excess products far more easily than they can sell an extra machine or warehouse, Mr. Sinai said.
The government's report offered other signs of weakness, as well. The savings rate of American households hit a new low, as people spent 1 percent more money than they earned. With debt levels already high, many economists say consumers will soon begin to reduce their spending to pay off mortgages and credit card bills.
This may already be happening. After rising at a healthy clip in January, according to estimates by Ian Shepherdson, the chief domestic economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y., consumer spending rose only slightly in February and stayed roughly constant in March.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Real Economic Growth"Annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for seasonality and inflation. Graph tracks change from 1996 through 2001.(Source: Commerce Department)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STATISTICS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; CREDIT; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001 



783 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: A City Long Passionate About Its River Finds a Fondness for Its Flood Wall 

BYLINE:  By JOHN W. FOUNTAIN 

DATELINE: HANNIBAL, Mo., April 27 

 BODY:
Here in the hometown of Mark Twain, life on this stretch of the flooding Mississippi is mostly high and still mostly dry these days. 
 While people upstream fortified their towns with sandbags and kept watch over dikes, people here came to the downtown earthen levees connected to a concrete flood wall and giant floodgates today, just to watch the swirling river. 
 The wall is a somewhat conspicuous structure of concrete, steel and dirt, but trees, grass, wooden benches and ornate lamps make it seem more like a park on a hill. Most of downtown, including Mark Twain's house, the town's museum with its 27 paintings by Norman Rockwell and all of the businesses in this historic district, are out of harm's way, protected by the flood wall. 
The wall, completed in 1992, just in time to shield Hannibal from the great flood that came a year later, is as much a part of this town as the river it loves.
So people came here to watch the Mississippi swell and roll while they stood safe on dry land throughout the warm afternoon. And while other riverside towns debate whether to build or not to build flood walls, people in Hannibal say theirs has stolen none of the river's might or mystique.
"For us people around here, it's still the same old river," said Donald Kempf, 62, who has lived in Hannibal all his life and who watched the river from the berm today with his friends Carl Vincent, 76, and Marietta Glasscock, 69.
Watching the river from atop the grassy mound, Dorothy Matson recalled that once on a trip to California she met a woman who bragged that Californians had the Pacific Ocean. Another woman, a New Yorker, bragged that she had the Atlantic. Ms. Matson told them that she had the Mississippi. That settled that.
"I couldn't feature life without the Mississippi," said Ms. Matson, who has lived in Hannibal all her 78 years. "I've lived with it so long I couldn't feature that."
The river rolls south, high and fast, an extension of the floods upstream. This afternoon, graying men and women, children dipping plastic spoons in ice cream cups and a couple lying on the berm watched the water roll by. 
"It's the mighty Mississippi and it's going to do what it's going to do," John Hark, the city's emergency management coordinator, said. Even so, the people here decided about a decade ago that they had to try to tame it to protect themselves.
The mystique of the river and the lure of the names Mark Twain, Huck Finn and Tom Sawyer draw about 520,000 tourists a year to this town of 18,000, city officials say. Visitors spend an average of $75 a day. That translates to about $38 million, a big part of the town's economy. 
There was considerable opposition before the town decided to construct the walls that now protect downtown, Mr. Hark recalled. People here did not want to lose their connection to the Mississippi; some thought a monstrous wall would block their view of the river. 
The flood walls and gates were built from 1991 to 1992 at a cost of $8 million, about 20 percent of which was paid by the city and the remainder by the federal government, Mr. Hark said. 
The combination wall and levee, which runs about 2,500 to 3,000 feet, also has several floodgates that are lowered when the river floods and removed when the water recedes. 
So, for much of the year, the river view is unobstructed and there is access to Kiwanis Park as well as the town's harbor. After years of putting up with flooding, many here say, a dry downtown when the river is raging is worth the occasional blocked view.
"It's pretty much not a panic thing anymore," said Mary Beth Baudendistel, the city clerk.
Others agreed. 
"I kind of like the levee because this was the only levee in '93 that held," Mr. Kempf said. "The rest of them broke."
"It's just nature and holding its water back," Mr. Vincent said of the levee, standing next to his friends. 
"It's the same old river," Mr. Vincent said. "She just ain't as fresh as she used to be. Used to be, when I was a kid, I wasn't afraid to go out there and drink a glass of it." He also used to drive a team of horses across it when it was frozen solid during winter. And men used to cut the ice and sell it for 50 cents a slab, he said. 
The river was expected to crest tonight at 23.5 feet, about 7 feet above flood stage, although still a good 8 feet below the earthen levees and concrete reinforced flood walls. Barge traffic on this seam of the Mississippi has been still for days now because of the swollen river. 
But the river is still right for cruising, said Steve Terry, captain of the riverboat Mark Twain. In 1993, the river's swell was 8 feet higher than it was today and his boat was out of business 47 days. He rode it out then. So this year's flood is a piece of cake.
"It makes it a little more of a challenge. It'll be a real quick trip downstream, and kind of slow coming back," said Mr. Terry, 41, as his crew readied the boat for the night's two-hour, eight-mile cruise, something Mr. Terry looks forward to even in flood season. 
"You talk to my wife and she'll tell you I have river water in my veins instead of blood," he said.
"He does," his daughter, Jenna, 14, whispered, lighting a candle on a table in the boat's cabin.
As the last rays of sun danced off the river, a man fingered a banjo, the crowd filled the cabin and the ship cast off on the swollen Mississippi.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A flood wall in Hannibal, Mo., was built in 1992, protecting the city from the 1993 flood and keeping the Mississippi River at bay again this year. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (89%); RIVERS (78%); FLOOD CONTROL (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (71%); PAINTING (70%) WEATHER; FLOODS; RAIN 

PERSON: FOUNTAIN, JOHN W 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI RIVER (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (53%) UNITED STATES (92%) HANNIBAL (MO); MISSISSIPPI RIVER

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001 



784 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: Just Ask Elmo: Is 'B' for Bite, or Byte? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Gail Collins complains about AOL Time Warner's sponsorship of "Sesame Street" (column, April 24). But there's a weakness in the argument about blurring boundaries between corporate media and education. Ms. 
Collins asks if Elmo's computer fixation is really product placement, without acknowledging the contribution of "Sesame Street" in helping children and their parents appreciate how the "knowledge economy" has made computer competence essential. 
 "Sesame Street" has corporate sponsors because media education is profoundly underfinanced. If tax dollars are not available to support such education, then I consider it part of the social responsibility of companies like AOL to help pay for it.

RENEE HOBBS
Wellesley, Mass., April 24, 2001

The writer is an associate professor of communication, Babson College.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Renee French) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); PRODUCT PLACEMENT (88%); CHILDREN (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); NEW ECONOMY (69%); ETHICS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) TELEVISION; ETHICS 

COMPANY: AOL INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: AOL TIME WARNER 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: HOBBS, RENEE; COLLINS, GAIL 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: SESAME STREET (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001 



785 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home; 
A War Against Ourselves

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY LEWIS 

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
"They are killing us," the pilot of the small plane carrying an American missionary family said as a Peruvian Air Force fighter fired. Veronica Bowers and her 7-month-old daughter, Charity, died. 
 But the "they" in the pilot's words were not just the Peruvian gunners, and the "us" were not only Veronica and Charity Bowers. The ultimate cause of their death was U.S. drug policy, the war on drugs; and that war has damaged the lives of millions of Americans. 
 The attack on the Bowers family focused attention on an obscure part of the drug war: surveillance flights by C.I.A. contract employees who target suspected drug-smuggling planes for the Peruvian Air Force. President Bush ordered a temporary suspension of the program. And critics pointed to flaws in the way it is carried out.
For example, the C.I.A. employees who spotted the Bowers's plane tried to stop the Peruvian fighter from shooting at it before first checking its markings. But a tape of their communications showed that the Peruvian crew had trouble understanding them because the C.I.A. men spoke little Spanish. A former pilot in the C.I.A. operation told The Washington Post, "That's one of the fallacies of the whole program: the language barrier." 
But the real point is not a particular flaw like the C.I.A.'s idiocy in using English-speaking spotters. It is the futility of the whole operation.
The effort to stop cocaine exports from Peru has cut the flow from there substantially. But that reduction has been more than made up by a huge increase in coca cultivation and production in Colombia. As Plan Colombia, the military anti-drug program, gets under way there, production is reportedly beginning to shift to Ecuador. 
In the last 15 years, the United States has spent $30 billion, most of it in Latin America, trying to cut the supply of drugs from abroad. The costs to other societies have been severe: the rise of drug gangs, the suffering of peasants from crop eradication, the corruption of governments. Yet the amount of cocaine and heroin entering the United States is as great as ever.
To think that we can deal with our drug problem by limiting supply is irrational. Illegal drugs are an infinitesimal portion of goods entering this country, easy to conceal. And if cocaine were magically stopped, Americans who crave drugs would find some other chemical. 
The real need is to reduce the craving. Study after study has shown that treatment of drug abusers is the best and cheapest way to do that. Yet treatment funds are scarce, and the heavy emphasis of our drug policy is on criminal punishment. 
The costs to our society have been grievous. Long mandatory minimum sentences have filled our prisons with nonviolent drug offenders and made them, and their families, damaged beings for the rest of their lives. Prison-building is now one of the country's largest construction programs. 
The war on drugs is a testament to the human capacity for self-delusion. It is hard to change because even legislators who recognize its futility do not want to be seen as "soft on drugs." Yet around the country some politicians, and many members of the public, have begun to call for change. 
But not George W. Bush and his administration. Mr. Bush's reported choice as drug czar is John P. Walters, an all-out warrior who has spoken scornfully of drug treatment and wants to intensify the fight to cut off drug supplies abroad. 
The Bush administration has also started to enforce a little-known 1998 law that bars financial aid to students who have been convicted of even a minor drug offense. The result, defying reason, is to discourage one of the best routes to rehabilitation, higher education. 
The "war on drugs" is more than just a slogan. In war, collateral damage is often regarded as unavoidable. In any sane civilian policy, the collateral damage of the drug war to ourselves and our neighbors would long since have been found unacceptable. 
The result of the U.S. drug war, The Economist of London said last week, "is to undermine democracy, human rights and the environment in much of Latin America. A radical rethink of drug policy is long overdue." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUG POLICY (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); COCAINE (89%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); AIRLINES (78%); SMUGGLING (76%); HEROIN (76%); DRUG CROP ERADICATION (76%); BUDGETS (75%); FARM LABOR (64%); SENTENCING (61%); CORRUPTION (60%); GANGS (52%) DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; MISSIONARIES; COCAINE AND CRACK COCAINE; HEROIN; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (70%) LEWIS, ANTHONY; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); WALTERS, JOHN P; BOWERS, VERONICA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); COLOMBIA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ECUADOR (79%) PERU; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001 



786 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Japan's New Prime Minister Signals Peaceful Intentions 

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 27 

 BODY:
In his first full day in office, Japan's new prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, moved today to reassure neighbors about nationalist currents in his country, while reaffirming a campaign pledge to create a full-fledged army.
 At his first news conference since his confirmation by Parliament on Thursday, Mr. Koizumi said, "Saying the self-defense forces aren't an army is just a lie." He then added: "In the very worst case, if Japan is invaded, not being fully equipped and prepared is politically irresponsible." 
 Mr. Koizumi stressed, however, that the alliance with the United States remains the pillar of Japan's security policy, and said he hoped to meet President Bush as soon as possible. The new prime minister also said he favored a more active role for Japan in international peacekeeping, which is something the United States has long urged.
The comments were Mr. Koizumi's first confirmation since taking office of a campaign vow to seek changes to Japan's Constitution, written by Americans during occupation after World War II, to allow the country to organize a national army in the place of the current national self-defense force.
Japan's self-defense force boasts one of the world's largest military budgets, but is limited to defense by the Constitution's Article 9, which says, "The Japanese people forever renounce war as a sovereign right of the nation," and "land, sea and air forces, as well as other war potential, will never be maintained."
Many of Japan's neighbors, victims of this country's aggressive expansionism during the first half of the 20th century, have vigorously condemned perceived movements toward the fielding of a national army, and watch closely for any signs of renewed nationalism.
Mr. Koizumi himself fueled concerns about the rise of nationalism during his recent campaign, in which he joined with other conservative candidates of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party to pledge that he would visit a shrine to war veterans in Tokyo on Aug. 15, a national memorial day. The new prime minister renewed that pledge in his news conference today.
The shrine, Yasukuni, contains the remains of some of Japan's biggest war criminals, and most politicians have shied away from visiting in recent years out of concern of offending Japan's neighbors.
In a rare reference to Japan's wartime past by a sitting prime minister, Mr. Koizumi struck a resolutely pacifist tone. "Why did we get involved in that war?" he asked. "Because Japan became isolated from international society. What is most important is that we do not fight a war again, and do not again become internationally isolated."
Mr. Koizumi also balanced his potentially provocative comments about the Constitution and about the war memorial with a telephone call to South Korea's president, Kim Dae Jung, pledging to work with him to settle a controversy over government's recent approval of junior high school history textbooks that avoid mention of Japan's wartime atrocities.
Mr. Koizumi and Mr. Kim also agreed to coordinate their policies toward North Korea, together with the United States. 
Asked about Japan's perennially difficult relations with China, worsened this week by a visit by a former leader of Taiwan, Mr. Koizumi said, "There are various problems, but what is important is to understand each other's position."
In a busy first day for the new government, Mr. Koizumi's newly appointed foreign minister, Makiko Tanaka, met with the governor of Okinawa, Keiichi Inamine, over the issue of American troops stationed on that island.
Mr. Inamine has recently demanded a reduction in the number of marines stationed on the island, and asked for Ms. Tanaka's "understanding" over the strains caused by the presence of the American troops. 
Shortly after her appointment on Thursday, Ms. Tanaka hinted that she would support a new, stricter status-of-forces agreement governing the behavior of American military personnel in Japan. The Marine presence in Okinawa has been a longtime irritant in relations between the two countries, because of a string of rapes, arsons and other crimes. 
Mr. Koizumi gave little indication about his economic policy intentions, other than to say that "economic recovery and rebuilding the economy are a top priority."
"The most crucial point for the implementation of policy is for citizens to trust politicians, and the prime minister in particular," said Mr. Koizumi, who during his campaign called for sweeping reform. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); ARMIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); PEACEKEEPING (74%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); WORLD WAR II (72%); VETERANS (72%); AIR FORCES (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); WAR CRIMES (67%); NATIONAL PARKS (60%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%) FRENCH, HOWARD W; KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001 



787 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Forecasts an End to Treasury Debt 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 27 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, predicted today that the United States would produce large budget surpluses for some time, permitting it ultimately to pay off the publicly held portion of the national debt.
 "While the magnitudes of future federal unified budget surpluses are uncertain, they are highly likely to remain sizable for some time," Mr. 
Greenspan told the annual convention of the Bond Market Association. He addressed the meeting, which was in White Sulphur Springs, W. Va., by satellite from Washington. 
 He did not mention the near-term outlook for the economy, except to note that the current slowdown would probably cause a weak spell for productivity gains.
But he said the long-term trend of rapid growth in productivity should remain intact, which bodes well for the government's balance sheet.
"Current forecasts suggest that under a reasonably wide range of possible tax and spending policies, the resulting surpluses will allow the Treasury debt held by the public to be paid off," Mr. Greenspan said.
While financial markets have worried about the potential loss of the Treasury debt market -- which serves as a benchmark for pricing private-sector debt -- Mr. Greenspan offered reassurances on the effect of a dwindling supply of low-risk government debt.
"I am confident that U.S. financial markets, which are the most innovative and efficient in the world, can readily adapt to a paydown of Treasury debt by creating private alternatives with many of the attributes that market participants value in Treasury securities," he said.
Mr. Greenspan acknowledged that there would be transition costs, but he said those were likely to be outweighed by various benefits to the country. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); PUBLIC DEBT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); TRENDS (74%); BONDS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; NATIONAL DEBT (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (93%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001 



788 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: After Rejecting Climate Treaty, Bush Calls In Tutors to Give Courses and Help Set One 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
In the wake of its rejection of an international treaty to curtail global warming, the Bush administration is seeking advice from a wide array of scientists, economists, business representatives and policy experts as it tries to forge a new approach to the contentious issue.
 Most of those consulted, senior government officials said, are asserting that the science pointing to a serious problem is sound, and that there is need for concrete action to stem rising levels of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping greenhouse gases emitted by smokestacks and tailpipes. 
 Although the new effort is mainly taking the form of cabinet briefings behind closed doors, it is widely seen as a substantial broadening of a process that until recently was so tightly controlled by a small circle of advisers that cabinet members themselves often gave conflicting accounts of President Bush's plans.
The broadening has elicited expressions of cautious relief from environmental campaigners and frustration by conservatives and skeptics about warming's dangers. But both sides said they could not predict how the review would influence the Bush administration, which is under pressure to devise an alternative to the rejected climate treaty. 
"This group is reaching out for a diversity of views on climate issues," said Ken Lisaius, a White House spokesman. "This is a very serious matter that the president takes very seriously."
At the briefings, held about once a week over the last month, half a dozen members of Mr. Bush's cabinet and, most of the time, Vice President Dick Cheney have spent a couple of hours in what amounts to Climate 101.
The list of speakers has been dominated by scientists and policy experts who believe that a recent global warming trend is at least partly caused by humans, poses serious risks and requires a significant response to stem the buildup of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. 
The presenters have included Dr. James E. Hansen, a government climate expert who in 1988 testified about the problem before the Senate at the invitation of Al Gore, then a senator from Tennessee, and Dr. Daniel L. Albritton, the head of a federal climate laboratory and a lead author of an international report pointing to serious risks from global warming for coming decades. 
The report, by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a United Nations group, was widely criticized by conservative groups as biased but has been held up by many others as strong new evidence justifying action.
The participants all declined to discuss the substance of the meetings at the request of the White House. But some said they saw the meetings as a sign of new openness on the issue. 
"It is encouraging that they are spending serious time gathering information and facts in the development of their policy," said Kevin Fay, a business official who was a presenter at the most recent briefing, on Tuesday.
Mr. Fay is the executive director of the International Climate Change Partnership, an organization representing what he calls "the progressive cowering middle of industry," businesses that seek to be environmental stewards, but with the bottom line in mind. 
Another sign of the administration's new tack in recent days is its recruitment of seasoned experts in climate issues from the ranks of various agencies as it assembles a team to come up with policy options, which officials plan to present to Mr. Bush by the end of May. 
Particularly urgent is an effort to come up with an alternative to the Kyoto Protocol, the treaty that was negotiated and signed by the Clinton administration and summarily rejected by Mr. Bush last month. Mr. Bush said that its binding limits on greenhouse gases could harm the economy and that it unfairly excluded fast-growing economic powers like China and India. 
That decision came shortly after Mr. Bush renounced a campaign pledge he had made to include mandatory carbon dioxide cuts in a cleanup of power plants.
Both announcements came after a flurry of lobbying by conservatives who have long opposed restrictions on carbon dioxide, which is, at least for now, a byproduct of almost every activity in modern industrial society. 
But the announcements produced a flood of bad press and the first bruises for Mr. Bush in some public opinion polls. 
With the dust settling, there is a growing realization at the White House that the blunt rejection of the treaty may have caused more problems than it solved.
"The decisions six weeks ago were made in an appalling vacuum of information," said a senior government official involved in the climate policy review, who spoke only on the condition of anonymity.
"A substantial portion of the people involved wish they had it to do over again," the official said. "They might still have rejected Kyoto, but probably in a different way. Now you're seeing a genuine effort to get a balanced perspective."
The briefings have been intimate affairs, officials said, including only a handful of White House staff members and a varying roster of cabinet members and government executives -- generally from the Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, Energy, Interior, State and Treasury, as well as the Environmental Protection Agency. 
The first two sessions, held at Commerce Department headquarters and then the headquarters of the Environmental Protection Agency, were strictly science. 
Dr. Albritton defended the international report he helped create. Dr. Ronald J. Stouffer, a designer of computer climate models at the Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory, a government research center in Princeton, N.J., talked about the difficulties posed by clouds, which as yet cannot be modeled accurately and so hamper predictions of the local consequences of a general climate warming. 
There were props. Dr. Hansen used a one-watt Christmas-tree bulb to represent the extra energy beating down on each half-square-yard of the earth's surface as a result of the growing blanket of greenhouse gases. 
Dr. Hansen has been of particular interest to the White House because last year he proposed that the best short-term attack on warming might come by focusing not on carbon dioxide but on methane, a less common but more potent greenhouse gas, and soot, which is not mentioned in the Kyoto Protocol but is increasingly thought to contribute both to warming and to serious health problems. 
Dr. Hansen was invited back to the second session, where he was joined by a prominent skeptic, Dr. Richard S. Lindzen, a meteorology professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who has long held that any climate influence from human activities is inconsequential.
In the third session, focusing on economics, the administration stayed close to home, listening to Dr. Richard L. Schmalensee, the dean of the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a member of the Council of Economic Advisers in the administration of Mr. Bush's father. Dr. Schmalensee and other M.I.T. economists have repeatedly asserted that the Kyoto pact is an overly costly insurance policy. 
On Tuesday, the pendulum swung to experts who support the general goals of the Kyoto treaty but who concede that the existing language is rife with problems. 
They included Mr. Fay, from the business group, and another former official from the first Bush administration, William K. Reilly, who is the president of the World Wildlife Fund and was administrator of the E.P.A.
Now the ball is in Mr. Bush's court, many observers say. The key question is whether he will choose some new way to get governments to agree to binding cuts in greenhouse gases or revert to the approach sought by his father, who at the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio signed the Framework Convention on Climate Change, the treaty that preceded the Kyoto document but that called only for voluntary reductions in the gases. 
Some business groups that opposed the Kyoto treaty have greeted the chance for a fresh approach to the problem. But they also say there is danger in starting from scratch.
"We're not talking about totally erasing the blackboard," said Norine Kennedy, the vice president for environmental affairs of the United States Council for International Business, which represents several hundred companies. "There's a lot in the protocol that should be retained." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TRENDS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%) WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (58%); DICK CHENEY (57%) REVKIN, ANDREW C; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001 



789 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Merger Blocked For Makers Of Baby Food 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 27 

 BODY:
A federal appeals panel blocked the proposed acquisition of one large maker of baby food by another today in a challenge filed by the Federal Trade Commission during the Clinton administration. 
 The challenge is based on a legal theory that has been criticized by President Bush's nominee to head the agency. 
 Soon after the panel announced its decision to issue an injunction against the deal, which reversed a lower court order approving it, H. J. Heinz announced it would abandon its plans to buy the Milnot Holding Corporation, maker of Beech-Nut, for $185 million. While not among the larger corporate acquisitions under scrutiny by the government, the case illustrates the stark differences between the antitrust approaches of Clinton and Bush appointees. 
Robert Pitofsky, the departing chairman of the F.T.C., said the decision was one of the most important antitrust cases during his six years leading the agency.
He said that had the decision gone the other way it would have encouraged other deals in highly concentrated industries.
The Bush nominee to lead the F.T.C., Timothy J. Muris, a law professor at George Mason University, worked on behalf of the two companies. He has been critical of the government for failing to consider the economic benefits of such mergers, and he is expected to be confirmed soon as the next chairman of the Federal Trade Commission.
In a speech late last year, Mr. Muris said that the case had presented the most powerful efficiencies he had ever seen, according to lawyers in the audience. He has told friends that several grounds even more compelling than the efficiency argument formed his conclusion that he would not have challenged the deal had he been at the F.T.C.
Mr. Muris has said that Gerber Products, the largest player in the industry, objected to the deal, suggesting that it would increase and not decrease competition. But retailers also supported it. 
The proposed deal had been attacked on the ground that it would have reduced the industry to two dominant players from three. Heinz and Milnot together control nearly 33 percent of the retail baby food market; Gerber controls 65 percent. 
Heinz and Milnot defended the deal on the ground that the economic efficiencies created by the merger would benefit consumers far more than they would be harmed by any potential anticompetitive effects.
The case has significant potential consequences for other deals in heavily concentrated industries now under review by the government, providing important legal ammunition if officials decide to challenge the deals.
This week, General Dynamics announced its intention to acquire Newport News Shipbuilding Inc. for $2.1 billion in a deal that would give the company control over the manufacture and maintenance of all nuclear-powered military ships.
The administration is also reviewing the acquisition of US Airways by the UAL Corporation, parent of United Airlines. 
But it is by no means clear that the new administration, which has criticized antitrust officials at the Justice Department and the F.T.C., will seek to apply the case to challenge other deals.
In siding today with the F.T.C., a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit concluded that the companies could use efficiency as a defense to a merger or acquisition in a highly concentrated industry but had failed in this instance to make their case.
"The high market concentration levels present in this case require, in rebuttal, proof of extraordinary efficiencies, which the appellees failed to supply," the court said in an opinion by Judge Karen L. Henderson and signed by Judges A. Raymond Randolph and Merrick B. Garland. The judges concluded that the companies had failed to demonstrate that the purported efficiencies could be accomplished only through a corporate acquisition.
Mr. Pitofsky said the opinion was "one of the two or three most important antitrust decisions of the Clinton years."
"If this deal got through you would have seen a land rush of 3-to-2 proposals," Mr. Pitofsky said in an interview today. "The court just knocked this one out of the park." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); BABY FOODS INDUSTRY (91%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SPECIALTY CANNING (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (89%); BABY FOODS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); INFANTS MARKET (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); POLITICS (72%); INJUNCTIONS (71%); RETAILERS (67%); SHIPBUILDING (62%); NAVAL VESSELS (62%); AIRLINES (60%); MILITARY VESSELS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%) FOOD; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BABY FOODS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: H J HEINZ CO (74%); J M SMUCKER CO (71%); NEWPORT NEWS SHIPBUILDING & DRY DOCK CO (61%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (60%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (51%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (50%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (94%) HEINZ, H J, CO; MILNOT HOLDING CORP; BEECH-NUT FOODS; FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

TICKER: HNZ (NYSE) (74%); SJM (NYSE) (71%); UAL (NYSE) (60%); GD (NYSE) (51%); LCC (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (74%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (74%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (74%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (74%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (61%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (60%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (60%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (60%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (51%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) LABATON, STEPHEN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL; MURIS, TIMOTHY J (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001 



790 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE; 
Reassessing an Era When Excess Was the Norm

BYLINE:  By AMEI WALLACH; Amei Wallach is president of the International Art Critics Association/U.S.A.

DATELINE: NORTH MIAMI, Fla. 

 BODY:
THE art world tends to clock itself in decades. But the 1980's were something else, a decade of bloated reputations, excessive prices, collective rapaciousness and some serious painting.
 How serious has been difficult to gauge in the morning-after years since the orgy. It is only lately that 80's painters are once again regularly to be found in galleries and museum retrospectives. And now in "Mythic Proportions: Painting in the 1980's," the Museum of Contemporary Art in North Miami is assessing the contribution of 80's painters as a group. 
 The 50's belonged to Abstract Expressionism; the 60's to Pop Art and theory-driven minimalism. In the 70's, myriad styles proliferated: earth art, conceptual art, performance art, language-based art -- anything sufficiently unwieldy, difficult, challenging or dry to escape contamination by the marketplace. The point was not to be subsumed by the military-industrial economy, not to make anything that could be mistaken for a commodity. 
From the middle of the 60's on, the big debate was: is painting dead? Any artist worth his -- almost always his -- avant-garde credentials who painted under these circumstances did so according to the precepts of the enormously influential critic Clement Greenberg. According to Greenberg's theory of progress, art must become increasingly self-referential, increasingly reduced to the truth of the materials out of which it was made -- meaning flat canvas and paint. It must avoid "illusionism," meaning not just subject matter, but also any discernible break between background and foreground.
And then came the 80's. The paintings of Julian Schnabel, David Salle, Eric Fischl, Anselm Kiefer, Francesco Clemente, Enzo Cucchi and Georg Bazelitz were enormous, bumptious, anything but flat. And, worst of all, they told stories.
These painters ransacked history for subject matter (Mr. Kiefer and Mr. Clemente), layered contemporary porn with pop images and snippets out of the past (Mr. Salle), exposed the sex and drugs on the other side of the American dream in a style resembling the Socialist Realism usually associated with the Soviet dream (Mr. Fischl). Mr. Schnabel affixed broken plates and tree branches to his paintings; Mr. Kiefer covered straw with paint, tar and painted words. 
It was all bold, excessive, rule-breaking and for sale! Collectors, too long on a starvation diet, went into a feeding frenzy. Shows sold out before they opened. The collectors, not critics or curators, set the agenda. The great white male painters ruled the galleries, leaving very little room for other artists to be noticed at all.
And then, on Oct. 19, 1987, the market crashed, and the decade was as good as over. The moment had come for other artists of every ideology, sexual persuasion and nationality working in forms as varied as video, installation and the Web. The reputations of many of the big 80's painters plummeted as fast as they had climbed. In the 90's, painting of the 80's was dissed as avidly as it had been praised.
Through May 13, the North Miami museum has rounded up all the usual suspects for a recount of the hyperbolic era. And Bonnie Clearwater, the director of the museum and curator of the exhibition, has tried to recreate the feel and meaning of a whole decade through 62 paintings.
There isn't a painter in the exhibition who comes as a surprise. That's irritating, but it isn't her enterprise to fill in gaps or right wronged reputations. Ms. Clearwater spent a large part of her career at the Lannan Foundation in Los Angeles, and she's vigilant about the dead weight of New York opinion-making. She often mounts shows that reposition the work of an artist whom we thought we knew well, like Frank Stella, but who might look different from a different perspective.
Her case in the "Mythic Proportions" catalog is that 80's painting is misunderstood because at the time the art world was too busy navel-gazing to recognize that important art was being made in Europe. She argues that European art -- by Mr. Kiefer, Gerhard Richter, Mr. Clemente and Sigmar Polke -- influenced many of the Americans and that California teaching, especially by John Baldessari at Cal Arts in Valencia, trained others.
It's not an altogether new point, and it's not successfully made visually in the show, despite the presence of the Germans and the Italians. But it's the kind of investigation that needs to begin if we are going to get the meaning of 80's painting right. Now that the attraction and repulsion phases are over, what is there that counts? What's the context? How does it all fit into the greater dialogue of art?
In "Mythic Proportions," Elizabeth Murray and Susan Rothenberg get rightful credit for showing the big boy 80's painters how to smash the rules. The exhibition begins with Ms. Murray's 1981 "Heart and Mind," in which a canvas shaped like a cartoony cloud but painted with a lightning bolt intersects a canvas shaped like a lightning bolt but painted to contain a cartoony cloud. The message is that Ms. Murray's messy inclusion of the real world supplied the lightning that ignited the decade.
Unfortunately, as forerunners, Ms. Murray and Ms. Rothenberg get only one early painting each in the exhibition. Mr. Schnabel gets three, including the 19-foot-long "The Walk Home" (1984-85), which steals the show, as much by the wide-screen ambitions of its size as by its theatricality and the range of crockery and appendages attached to it. It's also a painting that debunks Mr. Schnabel's icon-smashing reputation and places him in a continuum from Jackson Pollock's "Blue Poles" through Robert Rauschenberg's combines. And Kenny Scharf bases his 1982 "The Jungle," in which the Jetsons encounter dread in psychedelic color, on the classic Greek statue of Laocoon.
Unfortunately, Ms. Clearwater allows the big boys once again to muscle other painters out of the way. In theory she is showing paintings from the years when the painters first emerged. But, hey, Mr. Schnabel was top box office by 1985. The rules are applied so unevenly that Terry Winters, Donald Baechler, Mr. Kiefer, Mr. Richter, Mr. Polke and Jean-Michel Basquiat get short shrift. 
That's bad news, because the only way to reassess 80's painters is to look at their work on equal terms. Or, as museums have been doing lately, to consider it in terms of similar ideas in other mediums. 
The final section of the exhibition focuses on the theory-based art of the Neo-Geo artists -- Peter Halley, Sherrie Levine, Allan McCollum, Richard Prince, Christopher Wool -- many of whom emerged as full-grown art stars from the collection of Charles Saatchi, beginning with their first exhibition at the Sonnabend Gallery in 1986.
Neo-Geo artists, and Mr. Halley in particular, paid the French philosophers Jean Baudrillard, Roland Barthes and Michel Foucault the kind of heed that Greenberg commanded two decades before. The new theories questioned the possibility of originality in a world controlled by systems of power and polluted with an overflow of images.
And so the decade that had begun by deposing one theoretical orthodoxy ended with another.
Mr. Schnabel is making movies now. And painting itself is neither dead nor the only game in town.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 13, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on April 29 with an article about the exhibition "Mythic Proportions: Painting in the 1980's" at the Museum of Contemporary Art in North Miami, Fla., misspelled the title of a work by Elizabeth Murray. As noted in the article, it is "Heart and Mind," not "Hart."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Elizabeth Murray's "Hart and Mind" (1981), above, and "The Walk Home" by Julian Schnabel (1984-85) are in "Mythic Proportions: Painting in the 1980's," at the Museum of Contemporary Art in North Miami, Fla. (Courtesy Broad Art Foundation, Santa Monica); (Squidds & Nunns/Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PAINTING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); STARVATION (60%) ART; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART (MIAMI) 

PERSON: WALLACH, AMEI 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



791 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC; 
In Tune With the New Feminism

BYLINE:  By ANN POWERS 

 BODY:
BECOMING the Ultimate Woman is a goal most sensible women reject somewhere between their first diet and their last bikini. Yet feminism's gains have not allowed women to relax. They have only fed the pressure to stand out, and the path to success grows increasingly intricate.
 The May issue of Glamour magazine features a 28-year-old editor's account of enduring "Power Lipo" or surgical fat-reduction, to reduce her waist from 29 to 27 inches. There's also an article on laser treatments and gel injections for young women fighting skin imperfections. The April issue of Allure similarly considers wrinkle fillers like Botox, noting that "For the 35-and-under set in particular, the prospect of inheriting their parents' skin-sagging tendencies -- or worse, looking 'surgical' -- seems much scarier than, say, paralyzing a frown muscle with a tiny amount of poison." 
 These slick women's bibles make the pursuit of beauty seem like preparation for med school, with each woman as her own experimental subject. Yet these urgings toward cybernetic self-mastery are oddly countered with calls for a return to old-fashioned, curvy womanliness. Alongside the blueprints for flesh-toning are articles like "Start Loving Your Body," from the May issue of Self, which exhorts women to accept their cellulite. 
Romance earns similar mixed signals. New Age gurus advise going natural, body and soul, while their gimmick-happy counterparts hawk ab machines and Machiavellian seduction methods. Femininity has always been a high stakes game in a hall of mirrors, but now the ideal has grown so complex that, from puberty on, girls get dizzy making choices. Behind all these options, there's still a sense that one of them, to just be the plain you, is unacceptable. 
As America's reigning girl group, Destiny's Child is in the thick of this post-feminine revolution. From the Shirelles to TLC, girl groups have helped women hash out the differences between good and bad, liberation and entrapment, love and dependency. Since hip-hop's rise, girl groups have grown even tougher. En Vogue's lethal deployment of old-fashioned dazzle and TLC's forceful reimagining of the streetwise, regular girl made the space for Beyonce Knowles and her lieutenants in Destiny's Child, Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams, to take on the predicaments of womanhood with the determination of warriors.
The overwhelming appeal of Destiny's Child is based on seriousness, not charm. The group's second album "The Writing's on the Wall," has had sales of more than seven million since its release in 1999, mostly on the strength of the sharp musical arrangements and stern reprimands of the hits "Say My Name" and "Bills, Bills, Bills."
The group's no-nonsense stance was further cemented last summer with the theme song to the "Charlie's Angels" film, "Independent Women Part I," a snarl about economic autonomy given a dazzling remix on "Survivor" (Columbia 61063), the group's new album, which will be released on Tuesday. The trio's hits gained a personal dimension as conflicts arose among members, and its line-up changed as Ms. Knowles emerged as an unusually authoritative teenage star. At 19, Ms. Knowles, who co-produced "Survivor" and co-wrote nearly every track, is as successful, and as resolute, as the middle-aged women who spent decades in power suits.
"There's plenty of people who don't like me, but there's 10 times more who love me, and I love myself," Ms. Knowles snaps in the caffeinated "Happy Face" from "Survivor." It's the kind of pep talk millions of women have given themselves before confronting the boss, or acting the boss with a problem employee. The song's mix of hyper-rhythms and floating melody, culminating in a delirious vocal run based around the phrase "I'm flying," captures just how crazy gaining authority can make women feel.
Women have long relished control, but femininity is still being reconfigured to make sense when they show such strength. It can seem as if a woman needs superpowers to lead in public, then to be able to melt in the arms of Mr. Right when he finally gets past her receptionist. Telepathy may help a woman trying to read whether a male coworker is attracted or repulsed by her assertiveness. Serious muscle is required to compete for the limited, if increasing, spots women still can claim.
Female action heroes have become the rage because their extremism seems necessary to kick womanhood into a new shape. Sometimes these fighters are sweet fantasies, like those Angels and the adorable cartoons the Powerpuff Girls. Often, though, they are lonely knights: Buffy the Vampire Slayer, who would like to just go dancing but has to save the world, or the self-sacrificing martial artists of "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon," a career woman's tale transformed into myth. The winners in these popular fables have mixed feelings about their victories.
Back in the realm of beauty, goals pursued are also impossibly demanding. A woman like Pamela Anderson, who to many defines female sexuality, resembles a "Twilight Zone" fembot even after she has had her breast implants removed. Women must become technological experts just to look their best today, scientifically processing themselves while maintaining the veil of the natural.
Destiny's Child embodies this paradox of innocent expertise. The group's sound is fresh and emotional, yet its supremacy is not based on vocal gifts or beauty: it is grounded in the fact that these ladies have the best mixes, the savviest samples and especially the most happening beats. Like Charlie's Angels with their tricky weapons, Destiny's Child wields the technology of hip-hop soul with a professionalism that startles the boys.
It may seem strange that a woman not yet 20 would consider herself a survivor, but Ms. Knowles's image suits both the times and her personal life. The alleged story behind "Survivor" involves those former members ousted after they opposed Beyonce's father, Matthew Knowles, who is also Ms. Rowland's legal guardian and the group's manager. Lawsuits, one still pending, may have informed the album's sometimes bitter lyrics. But those personal details don't matter that much, because the drama is enmeshed within music that says more.
What intrigues is the way Destiny's Child makes fractured female identity its base and source of strength. This feat begins where it must in modern rhythm and blues, in the very rhythm of each track. Destiny's Child has worked with a top bunch of producers, including Anthony Dent, Poke and Tone, and Falonte Moore, to make "Survivor" its most aggressive disc yet. These men have steered other singers, but most gained credibility with hardcore rappers like Jay Z, Bone Thugs-N-Harmony and the Treacherous Three. 
On "Survivor's" best tracks, Destiny's Child taps into the energy of those rough rappers as well as songbirds like Mariah Carey and En Vogue, pushing uber-yin against uber-yang until the elements burst. "Apple Pie a la Mode" enacts a seduction that's part Andrews Sisters-style flirtation, part panther attack. "Sexy Daddy" is a loose call to party, honed with a laser-edged, techno-style beat. Beneath the Disney-soundtrack effects on "The Story of Beauty," a sad fairy tale of sexual abuse, the bass line taps along like a steel hammer on an assembly line.
Ms. Knowles's voice, which still stands out alongside her newly more prominent mates, adds more stimulating tension. Like Britney Spears, Ms. Knowles aims for drama but dwells on control, pulling her phrases forward with precision and rarely just riding a melody. 
Such young singers have absorbed the lessons of show-stoppers like Whitney Houston and Ms. Carey but turn their self-confidence toward competitiveness instead of noblesse oblige. Ms. Houston might have written the title track on "Survivor" as a self-help anthem, perhaps hinged on a failed romance. Ms. Knowles aims it at her litigious ex-vocal partners. The song's intensity is not that of heartbreak but that of a Stairmaster on 10. "I'm not going to stop, I'm going to work harder," the women sing while merciless violins nip at their heels.
"Survivor" has bland moments. The slow-dance blueprint "Brown Eyes," co-written by Walter Afanasieff, who has applied the same wash of emotion to songs for Celine Dion and Barbra Streisand, could become the group's most ordinary hit. There's also a gospel medley, partly based on a Kirk Franklin song, giving the thanks to Jesus that's become obligatory for the openly devoted Ms. Knowles.
Ms. Knowles and her collaborators are also not too skilled at integrating lyrical inconsistencies, most jarringly when the blatant "Bootylicious" is followed by "Nasty Girl," which chides a wayward sister for wearing skimpy clothes. But even on these painfully awkward moments, the sounds, and the emotions they generate, which collide on "Survivor," increase the group's relevance in this era of mixed signals.
Some might say Destiny's Child's attempt to be everything at once is hypocritical. But the paradoxes let some humanity slip into the highly constructed contemporary girl-group sound. In the gap between the flawlessness sought by ultimate women like Destiny's Child and the ambition and fear that drives them toward it, femininity changes. And that's where the real women live.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Destiny's Child: from left, Michelle Williams, Beyonce Knowles and Kelly Rowland. (Rod Spicer)(pg. 1); Left, Britney Spears in concert in Rio de Janeiro in January; far left, from top, Blossom, Bubbles and Buttercup of the television show "The Powerpuff Girls"; below, the stars of the movie "Charlie's Angels": from left, Drew Barrymore, Cameron Diaz and Lucy Liu. (Reuters)(pg. 30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONSURGICAL COSMETIC PROCEDURES (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); MUSIC (82%); WOMEN (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); MEDICAL LASERS (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (65%); HIP HOP CULTURE (64%); RAP MUSIC (60%) MUSIC; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: DESTINY'S CHILD (MUSIC GROUP) 

PERSON: DREW BARRYMORE (59%); CAMERON DIAZ (59%); BRITNEY SPEARS (50%); BEYONCE KNOWLES (50%) POWERS, ANN 

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (59%) BRAZIL (59%); UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



792 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 2359 words

HEADLINE: THEATER; 
Sharing the Stage With August Wilson

BYLINE:  By DON SHEWEY; Don Shewey is the author of the biography "Sam Shepard" and a theater critic for The Advocate.

 BODY:
THE young crowd filling the room for MTV's in-house multicultural speaker series one recent lunchtime had clearly turned out to hear August Wilson, whose plays chronicling the experience of black Americans in the 20th century have won a bushel basket of awards, including two Pulitzer Prizes. But they also got an unexpected jolt of energy and eloquence from the tall stocky man with the graying goatee, black turtleneck and fedora who shared the platform with the writer. That would be Marion McClinton, the director of Mr. Wilson's new play, "King Hedley II," which opens tonight at the Virginia Theater. 
 As the MTV employees, many of whom had seen "King Hedley II" in previews, fired questions at them, the playwright and the director took turns answering. Mr. Wilson beamed while Mr. McClinton held forth on subjects ranging from the interpretation of God by the "King Hedley" character Stool Pigeon to the mythological significance of a blood sacrifice to the production's use of songs by N.W.A. and Public Enemy, whom the director referred to as "warrior rappers." 
 "I've worked on Shakespeare, Beckett and Genet, and they were a walk in the park compared to this play," Mr. McClinton told the audience. "Sometimes it feels like Muhammad Ali fighting Joe Frazier -- he keeps coming at you!" 
The production of "King Hedley II" is a landmark for Mr. McClinton. It is at once his debut as a director on Broadway and the culmination of a 25-year theatrical career that has gotten increasingly hotter. Two years ago he directed "Jar the Floor," Cheryl West's comedy about four generations of black women, to good reviews and enthusiastic audiences at the Second Stage Theater Off Broadway. And last year his production of "Jitney," Mr. Wilson's dramatic comedy about a company of gypsy cabdrivers, wound up a four-year tour of regional theaters with a triumphant Off Broadway run that earned Obie Awards for the ensemble cast and for Mr. McClinton as director. 
As soon as "King Hedley II" opens, Mr. McClinton goes into production for Kia Corthron's "Breath, Boom" at Playwrights Horizons. And Disney has hired him to develop a musical called "Hoopz" about the Harlem Globetrotters, with a book by Suzan-Lori Parks, which will begin workshops next spring. 
"King Hedley II" stars Brian Stokes Mitchell as the title character, who has recently served seven years in prison and is trying to get on his feet financially by selling stolen refrigerators. It is 1985, and the economic boom of Reaganomics has not trickled down to the Hill District of Pittsburgh, where Mr. Wilson's plays are set. More than his other plays, this one explicitly refers to previous episodes in the cycle. King's mother Ruby (portrayed by Leslie Uggams) and Stool Pigeon (also known as Canewell and played by Stephen McKinley Henderson) were characters in "Seven Guitars," which opened on Broadway in 1996. And the play includes the offstage death of the 366-year-old Aunt Esther, a mythological figure on whom Mr. Wilson's next play will be centered.
Like all of Mr. Wilson's plays, "King Hedley II" has had a long gestation. It began in a workshop at the Seattle Repertory Theater two years ago, and Mr. McClinton has worked closely with the playwright on its several incarnations. 
Aside from the fact that it crams into three hours as much material as "The Sopranos" does in a 13-week season, what made "King Hedley II" such a challenge for the director? 
"It operates on so many levels at the same time," Mr. McClinton said. "It operates in the language of August Wilson, the blues idiom, the gospel idiom, the idiom of the black church, it operates out of classic Western theater -- the Greeks, in particular 'Oedipus.' And it operates in the land of Yoruba myth and religion, which is the hardest one to actualize but the one that gave the play its bed to ground it. In particular, we looked at the story of Ogun, the god of iron. The image of the barbed wire that King puts around the garden could be a crown of thorns or a circle of iron. It's a complicated play, with an enormous number of allusions, out of which he creates a new legend, a new fable, a new mythological figure, a Messiah of the 20th century."
Mr. Wilson seems both amused and awed by Mr. McClinton's dedication. "Marion will go home after rehearsal and read the script every night," he said, smoking a cigarette after the MTV forum. "I honestly don't know anyone more passionate than he is about the theater."
Although he had already begun directing plays, Mr. McClinton was primarily an actor when he and Mr. Wilson met at a poetry reading in 1978 in St. Paul, Minn., where they both were living. "I had wanted to be an actor since I was 6," he said. "In one weekend I saw 'On the Waterfront,' 'A Streetcar Named Desire' and 'The Wild One' on TV. After having grown up watching movies with John Wayne, who was John Wayne in every movie, this Brando guy was something else. What he did was exciting, it was real. Around the same time, Sidney Poitier won an Oscar for 'Lilies of the Field,' and I thought, 'This is something I could do.' " 
The first live play that made an impression on him was a production of "The Great White Hope" starring Ernie Hudson as the boxing champion Jack Johnson. "That floored me with the power of theater," Mr. McClinton said. "I understood Jack Johnson's anger, his pride, his arrogance. So I was pulled into theater by something that gave a voice to stuff I was feeling inside." 
At 21, he quit the University of Minnesota and joined the newly formed Penumbra Theater, a black theater company whose ensemble members were young and high-spirited. "Very much like Steppenwolf, except that where they were rock-and-roll, we were the bebop theater," Mr. McClinton said. "Our style of acting was based on rhythm." He played the narrator in Mr. Wilson's first professional production, a musical satire called "Black Bart and the Sacred Hills," and he took the role of the alcoholic Fielding in the very first incarnation of "Jitney" at Penumbra in 1985. 
Mr. McClinton began writing his own plays in 1989. The first, "Walkers," got slammed when it was produced at the Hudson Guild Theater Off Broadway. "Police Boys" had a better reception when it opened at Playwrights Horizons in 1995 after productions in Baltimore and Pittsburgh. He considers writing his loneliest occupation and acting his most satisfying, but directing is what allowed him to earn a living and have a stable home life with his wife and son. 
An associate artist at Center Stage in Baltimore, he has directed at theaters all over the country and made his New York directorial debut at the Public Theater in 1994 with Eugene Lee's "East Texas Hot Links." He has spent three of the last four summers at the Sundance Theater Lab in Utah. "Marion has been a favorite mentor for writers and directors because he understands the process from the inside," said Robert Blacker, the artistic director of the lab. 
Mr. McClinton believes he has done his best work as a director at Penumbra, with actors he has known for 15 years or more. Specifically, his 1993 staging of "The Piano Lesson," the first August Wilson play he directed, altered his relationship with the writer forever. 
"I'd taken some liberties with the play, and I was petrified that he would hate it," Mr. McClinton said. "I remember the day August saw it. I wasn't there. It was the day of my first interview with George Wolfe, who was fresh into his job at the Public. Another daunting figure! That night I saw a play by Athol Fugard, who'd been a major part of my acting career, and I got to meet him afterward. I went back to my hotel and called home and asked, 'What'd he think?' They said, 'He loved it, he was on his feet clapping at the end, came up onstage with the actors, took us out, told us it was the best production he'd ever seen.' "
He paused, remembering the emotions of that day. "I was staying at the Empire Hotel, and when I hung up the phone I opened the drapes and looked out the window at New York, and thought: 'Well, you kicked my butt the first time I was here, and there will be some butt-kickings to come, and embracings to come, but maybe I should stick around.' It was a very moving day. I thought as an artist I had arrived. I thought as an artist I belonged, and I had something of value to give, to share."
Mr. Wilson remembers that production of "The Piano Lesson" vividly. "It blew me away," he said. "I saw a director who was willing to try very bold things. Most directors don't trust themselves. Instead of coming up with a concept for the play, they would just duplicate Lloyd's production."
The collaboration between August Wilson and Lloyd Richards, which began in 1983, is one of the most fruitful in American theater. As a director with a Broadway track record (he staged the original 1959 production of Lorraine Hansberry's "Raisin in the Sun") and the dean at the time of the Yale Drama School, Mr. Richards was the most powerful African-American in the theater. When he selected Mr. Wilson's "Ma Rainey's Black Bottom" for development at the O'Neill playwrights conference in Connecticut, directed it at the Yale Repertory Theater and brought it to Broadway, he singlehandedly put the playwright on the map. 
Mr. Richards went on to stage the first productions of Mr. Wilson's subsequent plays: "Fences" (which won a Pulitzer), "Joe Turner's Come and Gone," "The Piano Lesson" (another Pulitzer), "Two Trains Running" and "Seven Guitars." Along the way, he and the managing director of the Yale Rep at the time, Benjamin Mordecai, established a system of developing important, literary but commercially risky plays like Mr. Wilson's by refining them at a series of nonprofit regional theaters before mounting them in the high-stakes arena of Broadway. 
By 1996, when "Seven Guitars" opened on Broadway, Mr. Richards was 74 and had retired from Yale. When Mr. Wilson decided to return to "Jitney," a script he had been rewriting on and off since 1979, he tapped Mr. McClinton, who is 46, to stage the show. Mr. Wilson described the difference between the two directors as generational. "The period of time Lloyd came into directing defined him as a director, and the same goes with Marion," he said. 
While Mr. Richards's productions reflected a solid grounding in classic naturalistic drama of the postwar era, Mr. McClinton is willing to be more theatrical with his use of music and set design. For instance, his decision to give his production of "Jitney" a soundtrack of songs by Marvin Gaye at his prime nimbly conveyed the cultural and emotional climate of the mid-1970's for urban black men. And David Gallo's stylized set for "King Hedley II" embeds symbolic references to past Wilson plays in what looks like a realistic Pittsburgh backyard.
"My productions were more muscular, more musical than Lloyd's," Mr. McClinton said. "I stretched more toward the poetry. But working with August, I started to realize a lot of things that Lloyd brought that you couldn't see onstage but in the rehearsal room were essential. Such as fidelity to the text. Maybe some of the choices I made in some of those productions were exciting -- I'm thinking of 'Two Trains Running' in Baltimore, which the audience loved. But the ending he'd written was darker, more revolutionary, and I basically sabotaged it. Working with August directly, I realized that sometimes your improvements aren't improvements, they're a contradiction of what he's saying. So what I've learned is: follow the text."
He has also been learning some things about the economics of Broadway. While a team of producers devoted to Mr. Wilson's work, headed by Mr. Mordecai, has been able to raise the financing to put "King Hedley II" on Broadway with a theater star, Mr. Mitchell, they were unable to do so for "Jitney," which played an extended run at the Second Stage and then moved to the Union Square Theater Off Broadway.
And despite its good notices and enthusiastic audiences, "Jar the Floor" was not able to manage a commercial transfer at all, which continues to irk Mr. McClinton. " 'Jar the Floor' should have played Broadway," he said flatly. "It had the perfect demographic audience, and a major performance by Lynne Thigpen, who I believe got cheated out of a Tony last year. There's a sector that believes that black plays don't work on Broadway unless there's singing and dancing. Sometimes I believe that's a self-fulfilling prophecy. For anything to work on that street it has to be supported with financing, advertising, publicity. I'm not sure exactly how it all broke down between the money people and the theater owners. All I know is that the theater we were looking at was the Longacre, and that 'Taller Than a Dwarf' went in there" -- a short-lived play from last season. "I do believe 'Jar the Floor' would have done better."
Robyn Goodman, who was one of the producers trying to move "Jar the Floor," said that, "Getting a Broadway house is a political thing. It's a matter of who carries the most weight with the theater owners." 
According to Elizabeth I. McCann, who would have been the lead producer for the Broadway transfer, the Shubert Organization had promised a theater to Julian Schlossberg, a producer of "Taller Than a Dwarf." Ms. McCann said, "It came down to who the Shuberts thought had a better chance of running through the summer, and they picked Elaine May and Matthew Broderick over Cheryl West and Lynne Thigpen." 
At the MTV forum, Mr. McClinton echoed Mr. Wilson's famously argued conviction that for black theater to survive and thrive it can't depend on the white theater establishment.
He brought up the recent closing of the Crossroads Theater, the well-respected nonprofit black theater company in New Jersey, and said, "Michael Jordan could make sure the Crossroads Theater didn't go down with the money he'd bet on a golf game." Furthermore, "Michael Jordan or Oprah Winfrey could have gotten 'Jar the Floor' on Broadway. I believe the money's out there. Why doesn't it happen? It goes back 150 years. Some people are still trying to buy their freedom. The question is, how much do we value our art?"

CORRECTION-DATE: April 29, 2001

 CORRECTION:
Two articles on Page 7 of Arts & Leisure today about August Wilson's new play, "King Hedley II," and a listing on Page 40 carry outdated references to the opening date at the Virginia Theater. After the section had gone to press, the producers announced that because the star, Brian Stokes Mitchell, was ill, the play would open on Tuesday, not today.

GRAPHIC: Photos: From the left, Viola Davis, Charles Brown, Leslie Uggams, Monte Russell, Brian Stokes Mitchell and Stephen McKinley Henderson in August Wilson's play "King Hedley II," which opens tonight on Broadway. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. 22); The playwright August Wilson, left, and the director Marion McClinton on David Gallo's set for Mr. Wilson's play "King Hedley II" at the Virginia Theater. (Joan Marcus)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER REVIEWS (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); THEATER (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); WRITERS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); MUSIC (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); HIP HOP CULTURE (72%); RAP MUSIC (72%); BASKETBALL (72%); RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY (60%) THEATER; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: WILSON, AUGUST; MCCLINTON, MARION; SHEWEY, DON 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: KING HEDLEY II (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



793 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Long Island; 
Kings Point Is the Latest to Get a New Village Hall

BYLINE:  By CAROLE PAQUETTE 

 BODY:
AFTER 33 years, history is repeating itself in the construction of a new village hall for Kings Point.
 The architect for the new building is Marc B. Spector, whose grandfather Charles S. Spector designed the renovations for the original village hall in 1968. The mayor at that time was Benjamin Kalnick, father of the current mayor, Michael Kalnick. 
 Directly west of the rambling new building is the old village hall, originally the home of the daughter of the automobile magnate Walter Chrysler.
The 100-year-old two-story white Dutch colonial sits on the edge of Steppingstone Park, which faces Long Island Sound with a view of the Manhattan skyline. The United States Merchant Marine Academy, on what was once the site of the Chrysler estate, is across the road to the south of both old and new village halls. 
"When we approached the Spector Group, we told them we wanted a building that would blend in with the community," Michael Kalnick said. "That is a combination of traditional-old and contemporary. Structurally, this new building looks like the limestone of the many buildings at the Merchant Marine Academy. It is set back, well-landscaped and on one floor, so there is no impact on the community."
The new Kings Point building is the latest completely new village hall to be built on Long Island as villages upgrade facilities or construct new ones in which to conduct official business. For years, many of the island's 95 incorporated villages have held their meetings and kept records in temporary quarters, including a mayor's basement, or in aging buildings that have become expensive to maintain. 
The original Kings Point village hall -- which will be demolished to make way for a park or for overflow parking for Steppingstone Park -- "was rotting away, and only one floor of its three were being used," the mayor said. "It was totally inefficient, and was cheaper and more economical to build new. "
The $4.9 million new building, scheduled to open in May, is on 4.3 acres of village-owned property. It includes six attached one-story pavilions with individual copper-painted pitched roofs in a parklike setting of wide lawns that will be edged with trees, bushes and flowering perennials.
"The landscaping will be residential in feeling, since the village is known for its free-flowing English gardens," Mr. Spector said. His firm, the Spector Group, has an office in North Hills about five miles from Kings Point.
The 13,750-square-foot building includes a 2,100-square-foot courtroom, which extends behind the 1,600-square-foot lobby that is in the center of the building. The courtroom, which will also serve as a public hearing room, seats 137 people, 80 percent more than in the old building. It has an open ceiling with exposed cherry-wood beams and is topped with a short windowed tower at the peak. To the right of the lobby are three attached pavilions with cherry-wood accents and deep blue and beige carpets.
The individual pavilions range from about 950 square feet to almost 1,400 square feet and will house the village offices, including the building and highway departments. A wing on the left and at a right angle to the lobby includes two 980-square-foot pavilions that will house the police department with its separate entrance and a 1,800-square-foot pavilion, which will include the court clerk's office and a chamber shared by the mayor and judge, both of whom are part-time officials . Behind this wing are the parking lots, with 16 spaces for police cars and 50 for the public.
The exterior of the building is maintenance-free, Mr. Spector said. The copper-painted roofs, which change shades depending on the angle of the sun, will not oxidize and turn green, and the natural-colored concrete walls will not require painting.
The project was in the talking stages for about 15 years, said Kenneth G. Olsen, former president of the Kings Point Civic Association.
"The original plans were all marble and granite, and the building would have looked like a federal courthouse," he said. "A good portion of the civic association opposed it as too boxy. They wanted it more sprawling."
PROBABLY about 80 percent of the community is happy with the new building, Mr. Olsen said. "There are some who are unhappy that any money was spent at all, but if it had been done four years ago, it would have been half as much. But the mayor held off for more community input."
According to the village attorney, Stephen Limmer, the $4.9 million bond will increase taxes this year by 2.4 percent to $17.29 per $100 of assessed valuation from $16.80. 
Asking prices for a Kings Point house range from $800,000 for a small older house on a small lot to $10 million for a waterfront estate, according to Lee Rothleder, president of sales and marketing at the Great Neck office of Goodstein Realty. This year, home sales in the village , which is located on four square miles at the tip of the Great Neck peninsula, have averaged $1.8 million for a four-bedroom house with two or more bathrooms on three quarters of an acre or more.
"Kings Point is an extremely high-demand and prestigious area," Ms. Rothleder said.
Nassau County has 64 incorporated villages. According to Dolores Sedacca, executive director of the Nassau County Village Officials Association, some new village halls have been built over the past few years, including in Saddle Rock and Roslyn. 
Lake Success, a community of 827 houses, recently passed an $8.5 million bond issue for a new village hall. Officials are currently using the second floor of a community center that is "falling apart and becoming a money pit," Mayor Robert Bernstein said. The old building will be razed and the new hall built in a similar style on the site, which is part of the Deepdale Country Club.
Suffolk County has 31 incorporated villages. New village halls have been built in the last 10 years in North Haven, Islandia, Shoreham and the Village of the Branch, according to Mark Grossman, executive director of the Suffolk County Village Officials Association.
In some cases, like Old Westbury in Nassau County and Head of the Harbor and East Hampton in Suffolk, village halls located in historic buildings have been modernized, with their historic elements kept intact.
For example, Old Westbury's village hall was initially a country store. Several years ago it was expanded and the exterior refinished in the original natural cedar-shake style with white trim, according to the village clerk, Ken Callahan.
Daniel Shybunko, mayor of Head of the Harbor since 1994, said his village, which is in the town of Smithtown, got its first village hall seven years ago, when it remodeled a 150-year-old caretaker's cottage that was part of the county-owned Deepwells Estate. Before that, village business had been conducted in the former mayor's basement, Mr. Shybunko said. The new project cost more than $400,000 and added about 1,000 square feet to the original 800-square-foot, two-story white frame cottage. It now contains village offices, a main meeting hall and the police department.
Officials in the Village of the Branch, a one-mile-square community in the heart of the town of Smithtown, had worked out of the mayors' homes for generations. Four years ago, Sunrise Assisted Living requested permission to build a facility in the village for older people who need some assistance with personal and health care. Invoking the state's Incentive Zoning Law, which permits developers changes of zoning if they give something back to the community, the village received its first village hall. 
In exchange for a special exception permit in a restricted business zone, Sunrise donated a half-acre of its five-acre property and a gray saltbox-style, one-story 1,500-square-foot furnished building that it had constructed for temporary use as a sales office.
"We negotiated a nice deal, and two years ago we moved in," Mayor Irene Kissane said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marc B. Spector, left, the architect, and Mayor Michael Kalnick at the new Kings Point village hall. (Richard Lee for The New York Times) Map of Kings Point highlighting site of new village hall.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); MAYORS (89%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (69%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (67%) PUBLIC BUILDINGS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY (83%)

PERSON: PAQUETTE, CAROLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) KINGS POINT (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



794 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: A Funding Shift and Towns Try to Make Do 

BYLINE:  By FRED MUSANTE 

 BODY:
AN unpleasantly tight budgeting season is under way for cities and towns across the state, the first in several years, and the local difficulties are aggravating political differences between the Democratic-controlled State Legislature and the governor over the state budget.
 For example, New Haven's Mayor, John DeStefano Jr., said this was "the hardest budget year" of his eight years in office. He has had to deal with tough binding arbitration demands from city unions, citizen demands for more services or lower taxes, and increasing difficulty in squeezing more tax revenues out of his city's tax base. 
 The problem for some of these cities is that Gov. John Rowland proposed a budget for the coming year that shifts a portion of casino revenues from a local tax relief program to the state's primary education aid program. While that gives more money to the schools, it reduces the amount municipalities receive from the state for general budget purposes. 
Local officials said that while it sounds like money is going from one of their pockets to another, it's not that simple. Because of differences in the allocation formulas of the two aid programs, some municipalities will be receiving less money under the shift, making their budgets that much harder to balance.
Even though some school districts are getting budget increases while other municipal department budgets are being cut, the heads of some districts also said they are being short-changed. They said they need to hire more teachers because their enrollments are increasing, and they are under pressure to improve teacher training and remedial help for failing students, but they are not getting the money they need.
"The broad issue here is you can't separate the revenue stream of the cities and towns from the state, because the cities and towns have only one place to go," Mr. DeStefano said. That place, he said, is property taxes.
Mr. Rowland argued that he has to comply with the state's spending cap, added to the constitution when the state approved its income tax in 1991, which limits state budget increases to 4 to 5 percent a year. His spokesman, Dean Pagani, said the complaints by local officials should also be considered in light of the governor's sensitivity to municipal budget concerns in the past.
"The governor feels he has been very generous to cities and towns on tax relief, education spending, economic development and school construction over the six years that he's being in office," Mr. Pagani said. "The governor has to make choices, and the cities and towns have to make choices."
Timing has complicated those choices. Municipal budgets have to be approved by early May, while the state budget isn't approved until about a month later. Local government leaders have to choose whether to base their budgets on the proposal of the governor, a Republican, or on the expectation that the Democrats that control the Legislature will be more generous.
"My impression is that the governor's proposal will not be successful," said Mayor Daniel P. Malloy of Stamford, "and I budgeted as if it wasn't going to be successful."
In fact, the legislature's Appropriations Committee has recommended a package that would undo Mr. Rowland's funding shift, restoring or increasing the major tax relief grants to municipalities and increasing the educational cost sharing grant.
The governor's office said the economic slowdown that has affected the stock market has not been a factor, but that could change. Mr. Pagani said both the Office of Policy and Management and the legislature's Office for Fiscal Analysis have predicted that the economy would slow in the coming year, which could reduce state tax revenues.
When Mayor Joseph Ganim of Bridgeport presented his city's budget to the aldermen at the beginning of this month, supporters of the city's public schools greeted it with angry denunciations. Bridgeport's new school superintendent, Sonia Diaz Salcedo, said she was disappointed with the mayor's budget.
Bridgeport's school budget is about half of the city's $431 million budget. The Board of Education recommended a 14 percent increase, while Mr. Ganim recommended an increase of just under 9 percent.
Dr. Diaz Salcedo said the extra $8.3 million the mayor proposes for the schools falls short of the $9.9 million she needs just to stay even with rising fixed costs. Rising insurance benefit costs alone will eat up about $3.5 million, she said.
She recently introduced herself to Mr. Rowland on the telephone, "and the first thing I said to him was we need more money." She said the governor told her that he would have been disappointed if she hadn't made the request, but he didn't promise anything.
Julian Stafford, the school superintendent of New London, said his school board asked for a 9 percent budget increase, but the city's proposed budget gives the schools slightly less than 2 percent instead.
"This is going to be catastrophic to the New London public schools," he said.
Dr. Stafford said if the schools don't get more than that, he'll have to lay off employees, possibly even teachers, increase class size, and cut the gifted and talented program.
City Manager Richard Brown noted that the rest of New London's budget will be cut by 6 percent to give Dr. Stafford's schools even that 2 percent increase.
New London did a revaluation of its taxable property last year. Although properties near its waterfront increased in value, it saw a net decrease overall from its last revaluation 10 years ago. It received more than $60 million from the state in economic development assistance, but its new development was in special enterprise zones where tax incentives bring in no taxes for the first two years and reduced revenues for the next five.
New London approved a tax increase last year, but Mr. Brown said it will not raise taxes this year.
The differences between what school boards ask for and what city officials, who must raise that money through property taxes, feel is affordable is nothing new. Several mayors said they were critical of what they feel were unreasonable demands by school officials.
"In Connecticut, unfortunately, urban school districts and municipalities are sometimes put at odds because of the way the funding structure is put in place," Mr. Ganim said.
State grants and cost-sharing aid pays for more than 80 percent of Bridgeport's school spending, making school budget increases highly dependent on increases in state aid. Anything above the state funding must come from cuts in city services or tax increases.
Mr. Ganim said it was "ridiculous" for Bridgeport's school board to ask for a 14 percent increase. "Not that they don't need it, but nobody is going to support that kind of funding increase."
Urban mayors, who in Connecticut are almost all Democrats, blamed the Republican governor's shift of money from the casino revenues fund to the educational cost-sharing fund for much of the problem.
"That's a shell game," Mr. Ganim said.
Since the casino revenues fund was established in 1994, a decreasing portion of it has been used for local tax relief -- 78 percent the first year, dropping to about 40 percent this year -- while casino revenues have tripled, from $113 million to $336 million, said Kevin Maloney, a spokesman for the Connecticut Conference of Municipalities. The governor's proposal lowers the local tax relief share to 31 percent next fiscal year and to 23 percent the year after. The governor's proposed budget shifts $25 million from the gaming revenues fund to the education fund next year, and another $25 million the year after.
State Representative Robert M. Ward, the Republican minority leader, said some of the local budget anguish was because the casino revenues fund and the educational cost-sharing fund have different formulas. Some communities get more money because of the shift and some get less. 'It creates winners and losers," he said.
Republicans said it was the Democrats who forced it, by insisting that the educational cost-sharing aid program be fully funded. By law, the state should pay for half of the cost of public education, and the cost-sharing program is the largest portion.
Mr. Malloy said Stamford is a loser with either formula, because they tend to put more weight on wealth than on need. Stamford is wealthy, but also has thousands of poor residents. Gene Enriquez, mayor of Danbury, said his city is also affected this way.
Mr. Ward said most affluent Republican communities, such as North Branford, one of the towns he represents, are losers, but only slightly because they didn't get much anyway.
He said the problem is caused by flaws and inequities in the educational cost-sharing formula, a complicated calculation based on 58 factors, and not in the governor's decision to shift the money.
Mr. Ward said he thought the formulas should be replaced with new ones that are fairer and less political, and that Democrats such as Mr. Malloy, Mr. Enriquez and Mr. Ganim should join the Republicans in calling for this.
The Appropriations Committee recommendation would provide some relief for local taxpayers and additional money for schools, but Mr. Pagani said it would also put the state budget out of balance. He predicted that the final budget would require a compromise between Mr. Rowland and the legislature's Democrats.
Furthermore, the Appropriations Committee did not address the question of the educational cost sharing grant formula.
"That will be hotly debated in the next few weeks," Mr. Maloney said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sonia Diaz Salcedo, center, the school superintendent of Bridgeport, discusses the school budget at a committee meeting of the city's Common Council. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (88%); EDUCATION FUNDING (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); MAYORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); TEACHER EDUCATION (75%); INCOME TAX (75%); CASINOS (75%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); GAMING (69%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (68%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (64%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (56%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; GAMBLING; CASINOS; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES 

PERSON: MUSANTE, FRED; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (78%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



795 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2216 words

HEADLINE: The Track Has Run Its Course 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT STRAUSS 

DATELINE: CHERRY HILL 

 BODY:
CIGARETTE butts pepper the floor, and pages of newspaper swirl outside like bands of mad pigeons. Stables that once housed the greatest thoroughbreds are empty, paint peeling and door hinges rusting. The grandstands that once held 30,000 bettors -- often fashionably dressed -- for a Saturday race card now have a couple of hundred simulcast watchers like Thomas Wilson, most of them older and presumably retired.
 This recent day had been a grim one for Mr. Wilson. The young spring sun was finally shining, to be sure. But as he looked over the infield of Garden State Park from his grandstand perch, he was despondent. The last few races simulcast to the track from Aqueduct Raceway had treated him well enough; it was the impending demise of his favorite track that had him down. 
 "This had been such a wonderful place," said Mr. Wilson, who has been coming to Garden State since he was a boy in the 1940's. "I can't believe it is going away." 
On May 3, just shy of 59 years after it was dedicated as the finest racetrack in the world, Garden State will run its last race.
Oddly, the Garden State's Web site (www.gspark.com) still has cheery, multicolored animated horses and a sparkling photo captioned "Garden State Park at night -- elegant, dazzling, exciting, fun!"
The reality is far different.
At a time when casinos and legalized numbers playing -- otherwise known as the lottery -- are flourishing, horse racing is finishing a distant third. After all, Atlantic City Race Course has been running two-week live racing seasons merely to meet the state's requirements to have simulcasting at the track. Pennwood Racing, which operates Garden State and Freehold Raceway, has seen its total betting handle at Freehold decline from $44.9 million in 1995 to $29.8 million in 1999, the last year for which the state has complete figures.
At the Meadowlands, which is run by the quasi-public New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, thoroughbred racing dates shrunk from 66 days to 51, while harness dates were whittled down to 145 in 1999 from 181 in 1995. And at the Monmouth Park Jockey Club, also run by the Sports and Exposition Authority, attendance is up slightly, but the amount bet is down significantly, to $87.1 million in 1999 from $116.5 in 1995.
As for the fate of Garden State, there will still be some simulcasting after the final thoroughbred meet is over. But then the sprawling 223-acre property will be largely demolished and over the next few years converted to a mixed office-retail-residential development. While some regulars like Mr. Wilson lament the track's fate, many nearby residents can't wait for something new.
"For people who have been here since the 1940's and 1950's, it was really something in those days, so they have nostalgia about it," said Mayor Susan Bass Levin of Cherry Hill. "But it has been a long time since Garden State has been anything special."
Ms. Levin lamented: "It's very creepy there now. There aren't horses boarded and a lot of jobs have left anyway."
There have been complaints from neighbors in recent years about storm-water runoff, infestations of flies and general uncleanliness from the track that weren't there in Garden State's glory years. In addition, its owners have filed tax appeals four times in the last 12 years, trying to avoid payment.
"I feel bad that the racing industry won't be here anymore and that some people will lose jobs, but it's time for something more vibrant here," she said.
To Michael Vukcevich, the deputy director of the New Jersey Racing Commission, "it depends on what you call healthy." 
"What has happened over the last several years is a decline in live racing dates and an increase in simulcasting," Mr. Vukcevich said. "And in any case, it has been the survival of the fittest.
"The New Jersey legislature has worked hard to promote the racing industry here," Mr. Vukcevich added. "But the situation in New Jersey is not unique. Simulcasting, while it has brought more fans to racing, inevitably cuts down on live racing. If you go into a racetrack with $100 in your pocket, would you rather spread it over a half-dozen live races or have the chance to bet on 30 races around the country?"
The state has given its surviving thoroughbred tracks, Monmouth and the Meadowlands, an infusion of $11.7 million for prize money, or purses as it is called in horse-racing parlance. That will improve the daily payout to winners at the two tracks to $300,000, a figure racing people feel will bring in better horses. (An additional $6.3 million will go to Freehold Raceway, which runs only harness racing.)
"Racing has taken a huge step backwards in New Jersey, and we are happy to see that the State Legislature has recognized it and wants to bring things back," said Frank X. Keegan Jr., a horse owner who is president of the New Jersey Thoroughbred Horsemen's Association. "Hopefully, this will attract better horses running for better purses for people who want to go to the races and play."
The dominant image of the horse player most likely arises from the musical "Guys and Dolls," in which streetwise guys check their tout sheets every day and head to the track.
In truth, this was probably never an entirely accurate picture -- and certainly is not one now. In Garden State Park's heyday, the 1950's and 1960's -- when it attracted 12,000 people a day during the week and double that on Saturdays, it did so because it was open for racing only 25 days in the spring and 25 more in the fall. Fans came because it was a seasonal event. A regular was someone who might have come four or five times a season.
Today, because of simulcasting, the televised viewing of -- and betting on -- races from tracks around the country is a daily practice. On the other hand, there are fewer people doing it.
The National Thoroughbred Racing Association, a trade organization made up of breeders, tracks, trainers and jockeys, undertook studies last year that showed there was a core of about three million horse racing fans who visited a track or off-track betting facility at least five times a year and accounted for the majority of the nation's betting dollars.
On the other hand, the study found five million of what it called lapsed fans, those who used to be regulars but now visit a track only occasionally. Further, the racing association said it found there were 18 million of what it called light fans -- people who might watch the Kentucky Derby on television but rarely come to the track.
"You have to figure that a lot of this comes from the vast array of other alternatives, from time to other sports to casinos," said Wes Patterson, a Florida sports psychologist who is writing a book about the psychology of horse-racing enthusiasts. "People don't have the time or desire to spend six hours at the track for nine races anymore. And the proliferation of casinos and lotteries have changed how people who do bet, bet with their money."
Marc Falcone and Jason N. Ader, equity experts for Bear Stearns, wrote an extensive in-house analysis of the nation's horse racing industry last December, and the two generally found the sport ready for a rebound, though only under certain terms.
The authors discovered that attendance for racing in general was going down at a steady pace, but it was up on days when there were special events. For instance, when the Belmont Stakes, the third leg of the famed thoroughbred Triple Crown, was run on Long Island, the track saw a 10 percent increase in attendance each year
In addition, Mr. Falcone and Mr. Ader said there was room for growth in the industry through consolidation. Interestingly, they said, as fewer tracks were owned or operated by fewer organizations, individual races would increase in value. Better horses, if fewer -- running in races with better purses -- would help increase attendance, they said. Compared with baseball, for example, this would be the equivalent of ridding the Major Leagues of perennial losers like the Montreal Expos or the Kansas City Royals, thus allowing more games between strong teams like the New York Mets and Atlanta Braves.
Indeed, that is a blueprint for the Sports and Exhibition Authority at the Meadowlands.
"We have the most racing dates and offer the highest purses," said Chris McErlean, vice president and general manager of the Meadowlands Race Track. "That's how you get better horses.
"One of the things that will be the core of our ongoing business is to have our focus on showcase events," Mr. McErlean added. "Our major races -- the Meadowlands Pace and Hambletonian and the Breeders Crown --those are where we focus to make our track nationally and internationally known."
Mr. McErlean said the Meadowlands might have a weekday crowd of 5,000 or 6,000, but when the Hambletonian, a $1 million race, is run in August, 30,000 people flock to the track. Similarly, even on weekends, the average attendance at Monmouth may only reach 11,000, but when the big race of the summer, the $1 million Haskell, is run, as many as 40,000 come through the gates.
"Frankly, the Meadowlands is the mecca of our sport," said Paul Ramlow, a publicist for the United States Trotting Association, a trade organization based in Columbus, Ohio. "They created a racetrack with a large purse structure, the best drivers and some of the most prestigious races in the sport. Garden State was a nice companion to it when it ran a fall harness season, but I think New Jersey will weather that loss."
Mr. Ramlow said that harness trainers liked to send their horses to Garden State, a one-mile track, rather than Freehold, which was a half mile. The longer the track, the fewer and easier the turns, putting less stress on the horse.
"Still, I can see Freehold making up some of those dates," he said. "New Jersey is a strong breeding state. The tracks are there and the history of breeding is there. The whole state is entwined with racing, and it is important for the economy. So I think it will stay healthy."
Most observers agree that the decline at Garden State, and the horse racing business in New Jersey in general, came with the advent of casino gambling in Atlantic City.
"A lot of the people who used to go to Garden State and Atlantic City racetracks certainly started to go to the casinos," said Mr. Vukcevich of the New Jersey Racing Commission. "It tended not to be as great a decline in the northern New Jersey tracks, but it still hurt them somewhat." 
But Mr. Keegan of the New Jersey Thoroughbred Horsemen's Association said that the downturn in horse racing in the state came a bit earlier, with the advent of the New Jersey Lottery in 1969.
"Historically, Garden State ran a spring meet, Monmouth raced in early summer with Atlantic City, and then you went back to Garden State for the fall," he said. "Then everyone went to Florida for the winter. But then the lottery came and people stopped following racing everywhere. And when casino gambling came in, the floor fell through. You can only have so many delicatessens on the corner before someone has to go to work for the other guy."
Though the demise of Garden State had been expected for years, Mr. Keegan and other horse people said it was a wake-up call for the state to shore up its horseracing industry.
"This is an important segment of the economy here," said Mr. Keegan. "Breeding is important, too, in that it keeps open space in a crowded state. A healthy racing game produces farms that stop urban sprawl. It's not just a few old guys betting on bad horses."
Mr. Falcone and Mr. Ader, the Bear Stearns analysts, suggested that New Jersey would continue to lose racing fans either to casinos or to other states like New York or Delaware if it did not add extra inducements at the tracks.
Delaware, for instance, has allowed its tracks to have slot machines, with some of the profits going to bigger purses. Phone betting or off-track betting parlors have had proponents as well. In fact, Pennwood is keeping a few acres at Garden State in the hope that legislation allowing off-track betting will become law in New Jersey.
"I'm a horse guy, not a casino person," said Mr. McErlean of the Meadowlands. "But people feel casinos are nonstop action and horse racing is not fast-paced enough. Delaware has slots and it doesn't take as much effort to pull a lever as to handicap a race.
"For the past two years, especially on the harness side, Ontario has been a major competitor for us because of slot machines at the tracks there," he added. "They put some of that money back into purses, so better horses and thus better races go there."
Mr. McErlean said he would welcome either slot machines or some other type of betting mechanism at his tracks.
"We're already set up to handle gambling anyway," he said. "We are under heavy regulations and know how to deal with them. It can only help the racing industry here." 
But for Mr. Wilson, who was standing forlornly at the grandstand at Garden State, he is not sure what all of this will mean for him.
"Slot machines, ugh!" he said. "Even simulcasting. I don't know. It used to be such a fun way to spend a day, looking at the horses, standing by the rail, cheering as they go around. But I guess everyone wants faster action these days." 
Then he laughed uncomfortably and said, "I liked losing my money a lot more slowlythan that."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The stables at Garden State Park in Cherry Hill, above, once held top horses, but crowds, as on a recent Thursday, left, have grown tiny. Live racing will stop there after May 3, though some simulcast racing from other tracks, below, will continue. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. 10); On May 3, almost 59 years after it was dedicated as the world's finest track, Garden State Park -- which attracts sparse crowds -- will run its last race. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); HORSES (89%); STATE PARKS (89%); HORSE RACING (89%); GAMING (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (70%) HORSE RACING; GARDEN STATE PARK (RACETRACK); SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

PERSON: STRAUSS, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (92%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (69%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



796 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Society Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS; 
Amy Robertson, Luca Renda

 BODY:
Amy Elizabeth Robertson, a fund-raiser for a refugee services organization in New York, and Luca Renda, a program manager at the United Nations, were married yesterday at St. Luke's Lutheran Church in New York. 
The Rev. Paul Schmiege performed the ceremony. 
 The bride, 28, is the director of planned giving at the International Rescue Committee; the bridegroom, 29, is a program manager at the regional bureau for Latin America and the Caribbean for the United Nations Development Program. 
 The bride, who graduated from Boston University, and the bridegroom, a graduate of the Free International University for Social Studies in Rome, met while studying at the London School of Economics, from which they received master's degrees in development studies. 
Ms. Robertson, who is keeping her name, is a daughter of Georganne W. Robertson and Harold C. Robertson of Seattle. Her father retired last June as an urban planner and the executive director for the Thurston Regional Planning Council in Olympia, Wash. He is now the executive director of the planning and design phase of a new elevated train system in Seattle. Her mother is an assistant to the bishop of the Southwest Washington Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America in Tacoma, Wash.
Mr. Renda's parents, Loredana and Tindaro Renda, live in Rome, where they are professors of anatomy at the University of Rome.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); REFUGEES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); RELIGION (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE (57%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (57%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (57%)

PERSON: ROBERTSON, AMY ELIZABETH; RENDA, LUCA 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (70%); TACOMA, WA, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



797 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Have Rate Cuts Lost Their Magic?

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
THE Federal Reserve is clearly willing. Cutting interest rates comes easy these days, and if a few more cuts will arrest a slowdown that the Fed's policy makers never anticipated, then they will surely oblige. But stopping this slowdown and reviving the economy may be beyond the Fed's powers.
 The current downturn differs significantly from nearly all of those since World War II. The Fed provoked the earlier contractions by raising interest rates to slow the economy and reduce inflation. This time, higher rates played almost no role, and the downturn caught Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, by surprise. He and his colleagues are hastily cutting rates to encourage a rebound -- if one is out there. 
 Much hope exists, particularly on Wall Street, that the economy will recover on its own by the end of the year, and that companies will resume their purchases of new equipment, particularly computers and communications gear, and stock prices will stabilize, restoring confidence that family wealth will survive intact. But there is wide recognition that the Fed alone cannot make this happen. The business cycle proceeds unharnessed. And the Fed, for all its theatrical rate cuts, is more spectator than master of ceremonies.
Janet Yellen, an economist at the University of California at Berkeley and a former Fed governor, expresses as well as anyone the concern that Fed monetary policy -- lowering interest rates to encourage borrowing and spending -- lacks its usual curative power. "I am not saying that monetary policy does not work," Ms. Yellen said. "I am saying that we have negative shocks here that require a lot of work from monetary policy," perhaps more than is possible.
The chief negative shock involves capital spending. This is the investment in machinery, computers, software, factories, desks -- all the tools used to produce the goods and services that consumers then buy. Much attention is paid to consumers and the danger to the economy when they reduce their spending. Here, monetary policy does have leverage. Lower rates have helped to maintain spending, at least for homes and cars. Capital investment, on the other hand, is not very responsive to interest rates, yet it has just as powerful an influence on the economy. Huge capital outlays, particularly for computers and software, accounted for most of the rapid economic growth in recent years, and the collapse in capital spending starting last spring brought on the downturn. That is what makes this slowdown different than others.
The power of capital investment lies largely in its multiplier effect. The millions of workers who make the capital goods are consumers themselves, until layoffs or fewer hours cut into their spending. The companies that buy all the new equipment, particularly the high-technology equipment, become more efficient and productive. Their rising profits and the expectation of more to come helped to levitate stock prices, which then financed more capital investment, not to mention the encouragement that the booming market gave to consumers.
SIMPLY put, expectations and optimism got out of hand and excesses developed. Now companies find themselves with more capital goods than they need for a slowing economy. And recovery seems to ride on the answer to this question: When will the promise of rising profits again seem firm enough to justify the purchase of capital goods? In this calculation, interest rates play only a minor role. 
Some experts, like Kermit L. Schoenholtz, chief economist at Salomon Smith Barney and Citibank, argue optimistically that the capital equipment glut is not as great as some people believe. If consumer spending holds up, with help from lower interest rates, then the prospect of rising profits will revive capital spending before this year ends. Others, like Peter L. Bernstein, an economic consultant, say the sluggish economic growth of the last six months will persist for many months. The economy expanded at an annual rate of only 2 percent in the second quarter, the Commerce Department announced on Friday.
History and theory "support the view that an extended period of time will be required before American corporations will regenerate sustained vigorous rates of earnings growth," Mr. Bernstein writes in a newsletter going out this week. 
If so, then Mr. Greenspan led us astray. As a champion of the new economy, he praised the huge corporate outlays for high-technology equipment and the rising productivity that helped to explain the ever-fatter profits. In his many public statements, he did not focus public attention on the potential excesses in capital spending or the danger to profits. Monetary policy, he suggested, could deal with whatever lay ahead. But that may not be the case.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows the change in corporate profits for the S. & P. 500 from previous year. (Source: Thomson Financial/First Call)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); WORLD WAR II (56%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; CAPITAL INVESTMENT 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



798 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 271 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS; 
Ghyslaine Boullet, Guillaume Mitterrand

 BODY:
Ghyslaine Gabrielle Boullet, a Web site project manager, and Guillaume Nadd Mitterrand, a law student, were married yesterday at Bethesda-by-the-Sea Episcopal Church in Palm Beach, Fla. The Rev. 
Ralph R. Warren Jr., an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony.
 Mrs. Mitterrand, 26, works at Blackdog Interactive, a Web site design company in Chicago. She is a graduate of the University of Paris and received a master's degree in economics from the London School of Economics and another in multimedia from the London School of Printing. 
 She is the daughter of Judy and Bernard Boullet of Paris. The bride's father, a former vice president and account supervisor for Ted Bates & Company, the New York advertising agency, retired as a partner in the Paris office of Spencer Stuart, an executive search firm. Her mother, a former stockbroker with Paine Webber in New York, is a television producer based in Paris for American television programs. 
The bride's maternal grandfather, the late Edward Enright Butler, was the president of the former Schrafft Candy Company, which sold ice cream and had restaurants in New York.
Mr. Mitterrand, 27, is a candidate for a Master of Laws degree at Northwestern University in Chicago. He graduated with a law degree and a master's degree in business law from the University of Paris. He is a son of Anne-Marie and Olivier Mitterrand of Paris and Brussels. The bridegroom's mother is a novelist. His father, a nephew of the late Francois Mitterrand, the former president of France, is the chief executive of Les Nouveaux Constructeurs, a real estate development company based in Paris. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (78%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); REAL ESTATE (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); CONFECTIONERY INDUSTRY (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (54%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: SITE DESIGN CO LTD (72%); LES NOUVEAUX CONSTRUCTEURS SA (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: LNC (PAR) (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (72%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (66%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (66%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (66%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (66%)

PERSON: BOULLET, GHYSLAINE GABRIELLE (GHYSLAINE GABRIELLE MITTERRAND); MITTERRAND, GUILLAUME NADD 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



799 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS; 
Andrea Lans, Thomas Donahue

 BODY:
Andrea Elisabeth Lans, the daughter of Shirley Johnson Lans and Asher Bob Lans, both of New York, was married last evening to Thomas Raymond Donahue, a son of Donald J. Donahue of Hobe Sound, Fla., and the late Mary Meyer Donahue. The Rev. Dr. 
Thomas F. Pike officiated at Calvary Episcopal Church in New York. The Rev. Stephen S. Garmey, the vicar of the church and the bride's godfather, took part in the ceremony, as did the Rev. Mark C. Hallinan, a Roman Catholic priest. 
 Mrs. Donahue, 31, is the director of special events for the American Associates of the Royal Academy Trust in New York, a fund-raising arm of the Royal Academy of Arts in London. She is also a board member at the Sheltering Arms Children's Service in New York. She graduated magna cum laude from Barnard College. 
 Her father is of counsel to Jackson & Nash, a New York law firm, and director of the Gramercy Neighborhood Association, of which he was president from 1998 to 2000. Her mother is a professor of economics at Vassar College in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., and a former board member of the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority. 
Mr. Donahue, 39, is a managing director of Inter-Atlantic, a venture capital firm in New York, where he oversees the selection and monitoring of investments. He graduated cum laude from Georgetown University and received an M.B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania. His father retired as the chairman of the Magma Copper Company, a mining company in San Manuel, Ariz., and was a chairman of the trustees at Georgetown University. The bridegroom is a stepson of Carol Pascal Donahue. His previous marriage ended in divorce.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Jamie Watts/Gruber Photographers) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); MARRIAGE (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); FUNDRAISING (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); MINES & MINING (64%); STEPPARENTS (63%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE ENERGY RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (68%); MAGMA COPPER CO (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (66%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (66%)

PERSON: LANS, ANDREA ELISABETH (ANDREA ELISABETH DONAHUE); DONAHUE, THOMAS RAYMOND 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



800 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: LONG ISLAND CITY; 
Making the Citicorp Tower Less Lonesome

BYLINE:  By ERIKA KINETZ 

 BODY:
The Citicorp tower, which reaches 50 lonely stories into the sky above Long Island City, is by far the tallest building on Queens Plaza. But after more than a decade, it may get some company of comparable stature.
 The Department of City Planning is considering a proposal to rezone 37 blocks around Queens Plaza from mostly light industrial use to mixed commercial, residential and industrial use. The plan is designed to attract office tenants who might otherwise decamp to Jersey City, in the hope that Long Island City will realize its long-predicted emergence as an alternative to Midtown. 
 "It's 10 minutes away by subway, and it's just sitting there," said Jeffrey A. Bernstein, a managing director at Insignia/ESG, a real estate company.
Still, many worry that an influx of high-paying office tenants will destroy the manufacturing businesses that thrive in the neighborhood.
City officials emphasize that the redevelopment zone was carefully drawn to protect major manufacturing areas. "It is not a blanket rezoning," said Hardy Adasko, senior vice president of the Economic Development Corporation.
But Jonathan Bowles, research director of the Center for an Urban Future, said that without specific initiatives for manufacturers, high real estate prices will spill over into adjacent areas, forcing out industrial tenants. "Scores of printers, bakers, woodworkers, garment makers and other manufacturers have been squeezed out of industrial enclaves of Manhattan and north Brooklyn as a result of the same real estate pressures that could soon take place in Long Island City," Mr. Bowles said.
The New York Industrial Retention Network, an advocate for city manufacturers, estimated that more than 15,000 manufacturing jobs, many held by minority workers, were at risk.
Dakota Jackson, who designs and manufactures furniture, owns a factory in the heart of the proposed rezoning district, where he employs 140 people of more than 30 nationalities. "I've always believed that one builds and develops a business within the region that one lives and supports the community that way," Mr. Jackson said. "I would be forced to rethink." ERIKA KINETZ

GRAPHIC: Map of Long Island City highlights the proposed area of zoning. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ZONING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); CITIES (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); GARMENT WORKERS (70%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); FURNITURE MFG (68%); APPAREL MFG (68%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; ZONING 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (86%) CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (NYC) 

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%) SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES; 

PERSON: KINETZ, ERIKA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; LONG ISLAND CITY (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 

 
