

401 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 23, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Mixed in Hectic Day Of 'Tug of War' Trading

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar finished mixed against other major currencies in choppy, hectic trading yesterday.
Zlatko Glamuzina, chief currency dealer at the New York office of Banco di Sicilia, likened yesterday's currency trading to ''a tug of war'' between bullish and bearish investors. 
''The bulls would like to see the dollar go up and they say it has reached its bottom,'' he said. ''But the bears are trying to pull it lower and seem to be winning the battle over all.''
 
Gorbachev Rumors Unfounded
Currency traders said the dollar was bolstered by unfounded rumors that President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union had resigned. The dollar was also bolstered by reports of intervention by some central banks to push down the value of the surging West Germany mark.
Putting a damper on the dollar, however, was speculation that the Federal Reserve was easing interest rates.
In New York, the dollar finished at 144.05 yen, up from 143.97 yen late Tuesday. The pound brought $1.60 in New York, down from $1.6085 late Tuesday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Tuesday's rates, included: 1.7280 West German marks, down from 1.7322; 1.5645 Swiss francs, down from 1.5732; 5.9070 French francs, down from 5.9185; 1,289.00 Italian lire, up from 1,284.75, and 1.1597 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1625.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BANCO DI SICILIA SPA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (97%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); GERMAN MARK (73%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 



402 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 29, Column 4; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Schembechler Will Retire as Michigan Coach

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ANN ARBOR, Mich., Dec. 13

 BODY:
After more than two decades as one of America's most successful college football coaches, Glenn Edward (Bo) Schembechler of Michigan announced today that he would leave his job following the Jan. 1 Rose Bowl game against Southern Cal.
Schembechler will be succeeded by Gary Moeller, his top assistant for many years. Schembechler said he was also considering resigning as athletic director, a position he has had for two years.
''The toughest thing I've ever had to do is to give up my football team,'' Schem-bechler said as his voice cracked and his eyes grew misty at a news conference in Crisler Arena. ''But I'm doing it. I'm a very happy man. If I shed a tear, it's not because I'm sad.'' 
Schembechler, whose 234 victories are the most among active coaches in Division I-A and the fifth-highest total in football history, said that his health was fine but that he wanted to take things more cautiously after he had one major heart attack, one near heart attack and two bypass operations. The most recent surgery was two years ago.
 
'I'll Probably Miss It'
''I don't want to run my luck too far,'' Schembechler said. ''I don't know how I'll react next fall when football season comes along. I'll probably miss it, but that's the way it goes.''
Although the 60-year-old Schembechler has hinted frequently in recent years that he didn't want to grow old on the sidelines, his announcement jolted the fans and the sports community of the Great Lakes State, where Schembechler has been the transcendant sports personality since arriving from Miami of Ohio for the 1969 season.
''I can't imagine football Saturdays without Bo Schembechler,'' said Alissa Feldgus, a senior economics major from Philadelphia. ''Bo is Michigan football.''
Word of Schembechler's decision began to circulate around campus Monday night after Schembechler spoke to students in a sociology seminar. When a student asked Schembechler about the new coaches' offices in the new football building, Schembechler said he wouldn't be using the office.
''Bo is to Michigan what macaroni is to cheese,'' said Adam Schrager, a senior from Evanston, Ill. ''He means more to the state than any particular individual and it's obvious from walking through campus that his leaving has had a tremendous impact at a time when students should be studying for finals.''
 
Another Effect
Schembechler's announcement also created the possibility of a major side effect: that if the Wolverines beat Southern Cal in the Rose Bowl, they could be chosen as national champions for the first time in his career.
There is no tournament to determine a national champion. The two most widely acknowledged polls are conducted by the news agencies, The Associated Press poll of sportswriters and sportscasters and United Press International's poll of coaches. The outspoken and sometimes bombastic Schembechler has friends and foes in both groups but is highly regarded in his profession.
Currently, both polls show Michigan ranked third, behind No. 1 Colorado and No. 2 Miami. If Colorado loses to No. 4 Notre Dame in the Orange Bowl and if Miami loses to No. 7 Alabama in the Sugar Bowl, Michigan could move up with a Rose Bowl victory.
''I've never dwelled on records,'' Schembechler said. ''I've never worried if I've won the national championship, or if I'm the worst bowl coach in America.''
In 21 seasons at Michigan, Schembechler has a record of 194-47-5. Including his six years at Miami, his record is 234-64-8. His highest finish in the polls was in 1985, when his team was second by both A.P. and U.P.I.
 
Looking Over a Shoulder
Schembechler said he was reluctant to remain as athletic director because ''I'd want to go to practice and I shouldn't do that. I don't want to be looking over Gary Moeller's shoulder.'' Schembechler said he enjoyed the athletic-director role ''as long as I could coach football.''
''He keeps telling me, 'You don't want me around, you don't want me around, you don't want me around,' '' Moeller said.
Schembechler said he might take a larger role with the Detroit Tigers. He is currently on the board of directors. He has said, in the past, that he might want to be a football commentator.
''I love all sports,'' Schembechler said. ''I love to be around sports. A lot of people have talked to me about a lot of things. I have to work. There is a great misconception that I am so narrow, that football is everything in my life.''
Asked how he would like to be remembered, Schembechler said of himself: ''He's a decent guy. He's honest. He worked hard and he knew a little football.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 28, 1989, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in SportsMonday this week about Bo Schembechler's final game as Michigan's football coach misstated the date of his first heart attack. It was 20 years ago this week, on Dec. 31, 1969.

GRAPHIC: photo of Bo Schembechler and Gary Moeller (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN, UNIVERSITY OF

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; COACHES AND MANAGERS COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (91%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); HEART DISEASE (71%); SOCIOLOGY (68%); 

PERSON: LAPOINTE, JOE; SCHLEMBECHLER, GLENN E (BO); MOELLER, GARY GLENN EDWARD 'BO' SCHEMBECHLER (94%); 



403 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Plans to Ground Air Fleet That Can Direct Nuclear War

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 14

 BODY:
The Pentagon plans to halt the round-the-clock flights of an airborne command post that for three decades has been a grim symbol of America's preparation to wage nuclear war even if the President and other political leaders were killed in a surprise attack, Pentagon officials said today.
The plan, part of a Defense Department effort to adjust its forces in a changing world, reflects the improved relations between the United States and Soviet Union and the belief that the threat of a surprise nuclear attack is diminishing.
Since 1961 the Air Force has continuously kept aloft, on a rotating basis, a fleet of planes collectively referred to as ''Looking Glass.'' Instead, Pentagon documents propose that the planes be shifted ''to continuous ground alert with specified number of sorties per week.'' 
A Defense Department official said the Pentagon recommendation needs the approval of President Bush. While some recent recommendations have prompted appeals within the Pentagon, one official said the decision on ''Looking Glass'' so far has not drawn strong objections.
The plan to curtail the flights would save about $20 million in the fiscal year 1991 and is part of a broad reconsideration by Pentagon officials of military planning and spending.
 
Some Cuts Are Accepted
As part of those deliberations, Pentagon officials said the Joint Chiefs of Staff have told Defense Secretary Dick Cheney that they are willing to accept the sizable cuts that Mr. Cheney plans for military spending over the next four years. But the Chiefs say any further reductions would undermine American security.
Until recently, the Bush Administration had projected a modest increase in military spending over those years, after accounting for inflation. The difference between the budgets that the Administration had originally planned for and the budgets now under consideration in the Pentagon, from 1992 through 1994, is $180 billion.
Gen. Colin L. Powell, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, has told Mr. Cheney that such a reduction can be made over the next several years as long as the Pentagon thereafter holds the line on military spending, a Pentagon official said. The Chiefs had argued that the United States needs to plan for small increases in military spending, after accounting for inflation, in the mid-1990's to maintain weapons modernization and personnel programs.
''Our position is it will go too far if you don't turn it around,'' said Gen. Alfred M. Gray, the Marine Corps Commandant, referring to the downturn in military spending. By the mid-1990's, he said, ''we have to see it go the other way.''
The Chiefs' warning comes after recommendations from former Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara and other former Pentagon officials that spending cuts be far more than those under review by Mr. Cheney. At a Congressional hearing this week, Mr. McNamara recommended reducing by half the current level of Pentagon spending, which is about $295 billion, over the next decade.
Proposals for cuts of the magnitude suggested by Mr. McNamara and the growing clamor for reductions in Pentagon spending on Capitol Hill have alarmed military officials, who say that such sweeping cuts would undermine the United States' ability to maintain new strategic nuclear forces and project conventional power around the world.
The military services, one officer said, have been told to identify $180 billion in cuts and are ''reluctantly going about doing that.''
 
'High Price' of a Superpower
''If you go beyond that, we are not going to be able to maintain the edge we need for the next 10 years,'' he said. ''There is a pretty high price tag associated with being a superpower.''
The initial suggestion to cut back the ''Looking Glass'' flights was first made by the Strategic Air Command.
Each flight is commanded by a general from the Strategic Air Command, based in Omaha, who would assume control of nuclear forces in the event the country's top leaders were killed in a nuclear war.
The decision on the airborne command planes, which was made known today, came as Pentagon officials disclosed an array of cuts made in response to the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget-balancing law and President Bush's decision to trim his military spending request for the fiscal year 1991, which begins Oct. 1, 1990.
Pete Williams, a Pentagon spokesman, said Army and Air Force uniformed personnel would be cut by about 25,000 this fiscal year as a result of the budget-balancing law.
 
An Important First Step
The troop cuts will save about $900 million in spending in the fiscal year 1990. Even though the United States has about 2.1 million uniformed military personnel, the troop cuts are important because they represent the first step toward a smaller military.
In addition to troop cuts, the Pentagon is planning a broad range of reductions to trim its 1991 spending request. President Bush decided last week on a budget request for 1991 of about $295 billion in spending authority.
To stay within the bounds of the Bush request, the Pentagon is planning to cut its spending request for the anti-missile defense plan, one official said.
Instead of seeking $5.3 billion in 1991 for the anti-missile program, the Pentagon is now focusing on a spending request of about $4.4 billion. Congress approved $3.6 billion in spending on the anti-missile shield for 1990.
But Mr. Cheney remains committed to the Air Force's program to build the B-2 bomber. Air Force Secretary Donald Rice said last week that the Pentagon was considering stretching out the purchase of the costly new bombers to ease budgetary pressures. But Mr. Cheney has decided to proceed with earlier plans to purchase five additional B-2 bombers in 1991.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN SECURITY SHREDDING (54%); AMERICAN SECURITY DISTRIBUTION (54%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (82%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (82%); US AIR FORCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MILITARY AIRCRAFT ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); BUDGETS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); APPROVALS (72%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; CHENEY, DICK (SEC) DICK CHENEY (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



404 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1712 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE EAST;
East German Asks Help of U.S. In Keeping His Country Separate

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: EAST BERLIN, Dec. 14

 BODY:
The new leader of the East German Communist Party asked for help today from the United States to keep his country from being absorbed by its powerful West German neighbor.
''I have never been in America in my life,'' the 41-year-old leader, Gregor Gysi, said, ''but I think it is a country that should not give up its responsibility for Europe.'' He spoke in an interview in German in his office at the clearly dispirited party headquarters.
''If the continued independence of the German Democratic Republic is in the interests of stability in Europe, then you should think about whether you want to leave help for the G.D.R. up to a single neighbor country, and thereby create dependency, or whether it wouldn't be better to share the responsibility, to prevent the re-emergence of Greater Germany,'' he said. Then referring to the possibility of unification, he added: ''But if so, then it should happen quickly - and simply.'' 
 
A Practicing Lawyer
Unlike his predecessors, Mr. Gysi (his last name is pronounced GEE-see, with a hard G) has not automatically become the most powerful man in his country. Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d came this week but saw the Prime Minister, Hans Modrow, not Mr. Gysi, and the party chief said he did not yet have an appointment to see the West German Chancellor, Helmut Kohl, when he comes to Dresden to see Mr. Modrow next Tuesday.
Until this week Mr. Gysi was not a politician but a practicing lawyer whose clients included members of non-Communist opposition groups here. He said that he had no inkling before a week ago that he might become leader of the party, and that he had had only four to six hours a night of sleep since then.
''I admit I am slowly becoming exhausted,'' he said in his second-floor office today, looking it, and wearing the same gray flannel suit he's been in all week. ''But I have to get this important extraordinary party congress behind me.''
 
A New Name Is Coming
The 2,750 delegates to that congress who named him as chairman last Saturday - abolishing the title of General Secretary held by his two disgraced predecessors, Egon Krenz and Erich Honecker - will meet again this weekend to pick a new name for the party, for 43 years known as the Socialist Unity Party of Germany.
Mr. Gysi was unassuming, articulate and willing to show a sense of humor about himself in the interview, just as he has been in public appearances bebe''Well, it's an awful responsibility in an awfully difficult time,'' he said smiling and sighing at the same time. ''Socially I'm worse off - I had quite definite possibilities as a lawyer that I've had to give up. But as it very quickly became evident that, really, nobody wanted the job, when they suddenly agreed to nominate me, I gave up my feeble attempts to fight it off.''
He said that he accepted the nomination by the 25-member working committee that took over after Mr. Krenz and his Central Committee resigned en masse Dec. 3, ''because I didn't want to be accused by history of not making the contribution I could have made to save this country.''
 
He Was 'Far Removed'
His biggest qualification, he admitted, was that ''I was not only not close to, I was quite far removed from the leadership.''
''I never dreamed of being party chairman before last Wednesday or Thursday - not even in nightmares,'' he laughed. A regular party congress in the spring will decide whether he stays on after that, he said.
Dream or nightmare, Mr. Gysi has his work cut out for him, to try to make a discredited party that held a monopoly on power in this country until only a month ago into one that can win a respectable share of the vote in a free election expected to be held next May 6. Asked what share of the vote he expected the party would win, Mr. Gysi said, ''Any figure I gave you would be simply plucked out of the air.'' Diplomats and rank-and-file leaders here say the 1.7-million-member party would be lucky to get 15 to 20 percent of a free vote.
Mr. Gysi could not be more different from the austere Saxon Stalinism of Walter Ulbricht or the defensive sanctimony of Erich Honecker if he tried. Mr. Honecker's grandiose offices have been sealed up, and Mr. Gysi said he drives a Lada, a compact Russian Fiat, instead of riding in a chauffeur-driven Volvo. And he may be the first Communist Party leader to admit publicly that there are things he doesn't like about Communism.
 
Dislikes and Admirations
''What I don't like about it is its tendency to be exclusionary, its tendency to pronounce eternal truths, its tendency to administration, to bureaucracy,'' he said. ''What I admire is the Communist ideal, the steadfastness of principle, the consistency in time of revolution.''
He also showed no reluctance to discuss details of his personal life like his Jewish ancestry.
But his main concern, he made clear, is to get his party to rebuild and redefine itself in time to save the country.
''There is no alternative in this country, neither structurally nor organizationally, in political effectiveness or experience or knowledge,'' he said.
He said that the newly emerging democratic parties, many of whose leaders are also lawyers whom he knows, should have the same opportunities as his own but do not have its potential. ''We extend our hand to them, we are trying to agree on compromises to insure continued democratic development in the G.D.R.,'' he said, ''and I hope we will all try to fend off the attacks of the right, especially from the radical right.''
 
Opposes Talk of Reunification
''Much will depend on whether we succeed in making a convincing case that the given situation, with two German states, is in the interests of stability in Europe,'' he said. ''I am dead set against this talk about reunification. I am for a process that will certainly lead to a unification of Europe some day, and in this framework of European unity the Germans will have their place, but I am utterly against a special German solution before such a process of European unification is completed,'' he said.
If that happened, he said, East Germany would become ''the poorhouse of the Federal Republic.'' Absorption of East Germany into what he called ''Grossdeutschland'' -Greater Germany - would create a dangerous economic imbalance in Western Europe, he maintained, and would be seen as a victory for the right wing.
''Then a nationalistic frenzy would break out here,'' he said. ''If one border falls, all the others, from Bessarabia to Tyrol, are endangered. Peace in Europe has existed since the Second World War really only because nobody really altered the borders or put them in serious question,'' he said. After premature reunification, he said, Poland's borders would be endangered by conservative demands for recovery of lost German territories to the east.
 
'A Left Alternative'
''The result would be that America, Britain, France and the Soviet Union would be forced to make a terrible choice, as at Munich, between giving in piecemeal or remaining firm,'' Mr. Gysi said. ''I feel that Germans in this century have lost the right to create the risk of instability and war, and precisely this risk would arise.'
But, he said finally, he did not want his country to fade away because ''I want there to be a left alternative to the Federal Republic of Germany.''
For though Mr. Gysi would look right at home in Wall Street or Federal court, he is a believing Communist, one who recognizes Marx and Lenin as inalienable parts of the party's heritage and grew up with them from childhood. His father, Klaus Gysi, is a 77-year-old former minister of culture and publisher who fought in the French resistance in World War II.
''My father and my mother were persecuted by the Nazi regime as antifascists, so I was raised in a very definite anti-fascist sense, with an orientation to the party, which led to my joining as a candidate member at 18 and a full member at 19, in 1967,'' Mr. Gysi said, explaining why he had become a Communist. ''And I grew up under the influence of the utopian ideal of a classless society, though I realize that it's not on the immediate agenda.''
 
Refers to Soviet Changes
Nor does Mr. Gysi need to be told that he wouldn't be where he is without a lot of help from the changes President Mikhail S. Gorbachev has brought to the Soviet Union.
''I am firmly convinced that they are the basis for the changes in other socialist countries, because without changes in the Soviet Union there wouldn't have been any in the G.D.R., and if there had been, they would not have succeeded, as the example of Czechoslovakia 1968 shows.''
''A whole dimension of people are coming to the surface whom we never heard of before,'' he observed, and it could have been a reference to himself a month ago.
The empty party headquarters has lost all its old leaders, many of whom are now in jail or under investigation for corruption, and their staffs left with them. Mr. Gysi and his colleagues carry their own briefcases and, sometimes, answer their own telephones. ''One of my conditions here is I do not want leading functionaries of the party to hold office for life,'' he said. That damaged us colossally and we shouldn't allow it again.''
 
No Wholesale Dismissals
But he said there would be no wholesale dismissals. ''I can't announce a new humanism and then treat the apparat inhumanely - that's wrong.''
Asked if he considered himself Jewish, Mr. Gysi said: ''I can't say that I am. I have a Jewish grandmother, my father's mother, and my mother had a Jewish grandfather. So figure it out, since I'm not prepared to calculate the proportions according to the Nuremberg race laws,'' the Nazi rules defining racial ''purity.''
''My mother also had a Russian grandmother,'' he went on, ''and the rest of my family were in the classic sense Germans.''
Gysi, he said, is a German-Swiss name. ''There's a lot of influences there that will work out for better or worse - time will tell, but so far I've found it's for the good, it always made me open-minded. And these ancestors also led me to take an interest in the life of the Jewish community, but I'm not a believer, I'm not a practicing Jew or a member of the community, but I have always supported it.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Gregor Gysi (NYT/Bob McNeely)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; GYSI, GREGOR HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (54%); HELMUT KOHL (54%); 



405 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1812 words

HEADLINE: NORTHEAST BANKS FACE HEAVY LOSSES ON PROBLEM LOANS

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
Troubled real estate loans are causing heavy losses for bankers in the Northeast.
With office vacancy rates reaching 25 to 30 percent in places like central New Jersey and Stamford, Conn., and with many condominium developments only half filled after two years on the market, a growing number of developers are having difficulty paying off loans. Many bankers concede that they may never collect the full value of loans to developers.
Among the 10 states whose banks show the highest increase in bad real estate loans, all but two are in the Northeast, with New York, New Jersey and Connecticut all on the list. Banks in those 10 states had increases of at least 55 percent in their delinquent real estate loans from the end of 1988 to mid-1989, according to a report by Sheshunoff Information Services Inc. of Austin, Tex. The report was based on bank reports to the Government. 
 
No Texas-Size Crisis Seen
But despite the problems, analysts do not expect a crisis of the magnitude that led to the failure of many banks and savings and loan associations in energy-producing states. The Northeast is not as devastated as Texas was in the mid-1980's, and banks in the region have a bigger financial cushion than many of the savings and loans that collapsed in Texas.
The difficulties with real estate loans are not confined to the Northeast, where banks are the primary lenders for commercial real estate. Banks in Arizona and Florida are among others with major problems. The real estate troubles of some banks in the energy states, though, are beginning to recede.
 
'Unprecedented' Boom
''The United States enjoyed an unprecedented building boom during the 1980's, with overbuilding and an oversupply of office space, shopping centers, hotels - just about everything, all over the country,'' said David Shulman, director of real estate research at Salomon Brothers. ''Texas was not an anomaly, it was a precursor.''
Where there is trouble the cause is most often overzealous lending by institutions seeking new markets as opportunities to lend to businesses have dwindled and foreign lending has often proved to be a money loser, analysts say. The eagerness to lend has resulted in too many new buildings flooding the market in many areas.
But the problem in the Northeast has also been caused by a weakening in the regional economy, resulting in part from a slowing in growth of military spending, a shrinking of computer firms in the Boston area and cuts by Wall Street firms after the stock market crash in October 1987.
As banks in the Northeast try to stem growing losses by cutting back on new lending, the region's economic woes are increasing. Economists studying the Northeast predict modest rises in unemployment and more delinquencies on loans of all kinds. $50 Billion in Reserves Still, analysts do not think losses from the $19.7 billion in delinquent real estate loans nationally, about a third of which are held by Northeastern banks, are high enough to touch off a round of collapses comparable to what the savings and loan industry has experienced. Banks around the country have more than $200 billion of shareholder capital and about $50 billion of reserves for loan losses.
Nor do banks have the extensive ties to real estate interests that existed among savings institutions, many of which were owned and operated by developers. Because banks are not allowed to act as developers and own real estate, except to dispose of foreclosed properties, there is less room for the fraudulent lending practices that were so costly to savings and loans, analysts say.
Still, the problem has become a heavy drain for banks, particularly those in the Northeast. The Bank of New England recently said it expected a large loss in the fourth quarter because of problems in real estate lending. And the Bank of Boston said its third-quarter loss of $125 million was mostly a result of a $370 million increase in its reserve for loan losses, mostly for real estate.
 
Rising Share of Bad Loans
The Bank of Boston said its delinquent real estate loans had risen by $185 million, to $1.1 billion, or about 13 percent of all its real estate loans. Nationally, bad real estate loans amount to just under 3 percent of all real estate loans held by banks.
Both Bank of New England and Bank of Boston, the two largest banking companies in New England, were recently required by Government regulators to sign agreements to improve their procedures for limiting their risk on real estate loans.
Savings banks in the Northeast have also been hit hard by losses on real estate loans, said Don J. Fauth, an analyst at the First Albany Corporation, a securities firm. He cited the Government takeover last week of City Federal Savings Bank, the largest savings institution in New Jersey, and said several other savings banks in the region would not survive in their present form. He noted that after the savings banks raised more capital earlier in the decade by issuing stock to investors, they tried to increase profits by turning to more risky lending on construction projects rather than their traditional home mortgage lending business.
Among the nation's largest banks, Citibank has also reported a big rise in bad real estate loans in recent quarters and expects more.
Insurance companies are also big lenders on commercial real estate, but generally their loans come only after a project is completed and is at least half occupied. While their profits may be affected by increased vacancies and smaller-than-expected rental-income increases, analysts say they are not experiencing the kind of loan losses that banks are.
L. William Seidman, chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which oversees the health of the nation's banks, predicted last week that real estate losses would increase further in the current quarter. Certain Northeastern areas ''have some of the highest commercial vacancy rates in the country,'' he noted.
 
Worries About the Future
What other regions do not share with the energy-producing states, at least so far, is a drop in employment sharp enough to lead to a big rise in defaults on home mortgages. But recent declines in home prices and slower sales of homes in the Northeast and other areas are making bankers worry about bigger problems in the future. In the New York City area, for example, prices have fallen 5.1 percent in the last year, compared with a 14.4 percent gain in the two years ending in 1988.
When a period of rapid increases in home prices, like ones that occurred in the Northeast, is followed by steep drops, mortgage defaults can be devastating to bankers because the value of the abandoned home can be less than the amount due on the defaulted mortgage.
''We have not seen unusual losses on single-family mortgages so far, but if the markets continue to worsen, you have to worry,'' said Donald F. McCormick, chairman of the Howard Savings Bank in Livingston, N.J.
But for now, problems with loans for commercial property account for almost all of the banking industry's real estate problems. Loans for construction of residential and commercial properties, and other loans for commercial properties, totaled $382.3 billion at the end of September, accounting for nearly 19 percent of all loans and leases held by banks, up from about 6 percent in 1982.
Although bankers began cutting back on new lending and tightening loan standards as much as two years ago, they have been overwhelmed by the market's deterioration.
 
It Looked Good at the Time
In Garden City, L.I., for example, executives at Howard Savings thought they were being prudent and cautious when they provided half of a $100 million loan to finance a development of 300 high-priced condominiums. The bank verified that buyers had made commitments to acquire about two-thirds of the units. What the bank did not foresee was that many buyers are now threatening to walk away from their commitments and trying to recover their deposits, which averaged about $50,000.
Today, fewer than two-thirds of the units in the complex have been sold, and prospects for that project and others are so bleak that Howard Savings earlier this week increased its reserve for losses on real estate loans by $70 million, resulting in a loss for the year of about $45 million.
Indeed, banks are learning that real estate problems can develop without the kind of full-fledged recession that Texas suffered.
With about 185 million square feet of new office space due for completion within two years, Mr. Shulman of Salomon Brothers does not expect enough gains in office employment to bring down the vacancy rate from its current 19 percent. And increased weakness in the national economy would cause higher vacancy rates across the country.
In New England, bankers acknowledge that much of the problem is of their own making.
''This market suffers from an oversupply of new buildings, not a lack of demand,'' said Gary D. Smith, head of real estate lending at the Fleet/Norstar Corporation, a Providence, R.I., banking company that has fared better than many competitors in real estate lending.
The growth in real estate lending, and the special risks it poses, have prompted the F.D.I.C. to start a special study of the industry and of conditions around the country. Bankers, for their part, are adopting tougher loan standards, like requiring more lease commitments for new projects, higher cash contributions by developers and guarantees by developers that last for the life of the loan, not just to the end of construction.
In retrospect, banking data for real estate lending should have suggested that a problem was in the works, said Alex Sheshunoff, president of the consulting firm that issued the report. ''The basic fuel for speculative excess is credit,'' he said, adding that ''rapid loan growth is the best leading indicator of future bank problems.''
 
Real Estate Loans Up 75%
He said that from 1984 through 1988, real estate loans, including home mortgages, grew by 75 percent, to $636 billion, not counting $40 billion of home equity loans extended to homeowners as second mortgages. That growth rate was far greater than the 40 percent growth in loans to individuals, to $258 billion; the 17 percent rise in business loans, to $497 billion, or the 9 percent decline in agriculture loans, to $45.3 billion.
In the last year, the growth has remained rapid, despite warnings from regulators starting two years ago.
Indeed, profits from real estate lending can still be attractive, and will keep many bankers in the business. Lowell Bryan, a director at McKinsey & Company, a consulting firm, estimated that fees and interest on banks' commercial real estate lending now total $11 billion, or more than 40 percent of average annual profits of the banking industry in the last few years.

GRAPHIC: chart of states with greatest percentage increase in delinquent real estate loans by banks (Sources: Sheshunoff Information and Services Inc.) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SHESHUNOFF INFORMATION SERVICES INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTHEASTERN STATES (US)

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE); BANKRUPTCIES; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; REAL ESTATE; FORECLOSURES; OFFICE BUILDINGS; HOUSING; CONDOMINIUMS REAL ESTATE (92%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); BANK FAILURES (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (65%); DEFENSE SPENDING (60%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL



406 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-19
 
An East German call for U.S. help was made by the country's new Communist Party leader. He asked for help in keeping his country from being absorbed by its powerful West German neighbor. Page A1

 
Once privileged East Germans now risk assault A16

West Germany postpones agreement on open borders A16

 
Soviet troops in Czechoslovakia are there under an agreement that is invalid because it was concluded under duress, Prague's new Foreign Minister said. A1

 
News analysis: The Soviet Union may at some point have a Communist Party that does not have a constitutionally guaranteed primacy, or so seems the direction of President Gorbachev's thinking. A18 
 
 
Shevardnadze to visit NATO headquarters A18

Skeptical Bulgarians defy Communists A17

Poles draft bills to slow inflation A17

 
The candidate in the Chilean election who appears headed for victory is Patricio Aylwin, the head of a coalition made up of his own Christian Democratic Party, the Socialists and numerous smaller parties. A1

 
New analysis: Salvador's release of an American woman arrested when a rebel arms cache was found on her rented property underscores the growing sensitivity of the Government to its international image. A14

 
Freed American is bitter at U.S. A14

 
Brazil will vote with eye on Army A13

 
The return of the boat people to Vietnam earned Hong Kong much international criticism, but residents there strongly approve of the radical measure. A11

 
War on drugs by Malaysia and Singapore has mixed results A12

 
Gunmen in Manilla hit U.S. compound A8

 
P.L.O. guerrillas mounted an attack against a Syrian Army garrison in southern Lebanon, and the police said 6 people were killed and 20 wounded. The attack was believed to be the first Palestinian frontal attack on a Syrian position in 13 years. A3

 
Iran rejects Iraqi demand to redraw border in a peace pact A7

Libya cuts some ties with France A5

France goes on alert against terror A3

U.N. backs guidelines for a Pretoria democracy A19

Pakistan wearies of Afghan burden A9

Kashmir officials criticised for yielding to Muslim abductors A10

 
NATIONAL A20-34, D17
 
Many Northeast banks are reeling from heavy losses caused by bad real estate loans. But analysts do not expect a crisis of the magnitude that led to many bank closings in the energy states. A1

 
An airborne military command post will be halted under Pentagon plans after three decades of being a grim symbol of America's preparation to wage nuclear war even if the President and other political leaders were killed in a surprise attack. A1

 
A Jewish veteran of World War II should not receive a Medal of Honor that was denied him in 1945 because of what his advocates say was anti-Semitism by a senior officer, an Army review board concluded. A20

 
Washington at Work: Lane Kirkland, head of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., has helped unions reap benefits from their long support of Solidarity, but big labor in America still faces many problems. A24

 
Senate panel pressing inquiry on Durenberger D17

Poindexter's lawyers assail Bush and Reagan strategy A30

Bush bars reduction in Social Security Administration staff A20

 
Health claims on food packages would be limited under an F.D.A. proposal, which regards many claims as too broad and in some cases fradulent. D17

 
Scientists puzzled by unusual Neptune rings A22

Louisiana panel votes to ease prisoner's term A23

Philip Morris to end support for important research prize A26

A-plant operator told to post bond A32

The freeway it took decades to build in Michigan A20

Dry spell prompts South Florida to plan curbs on water use D17

 
REGIONAL B1-7
 
Autopsies will test for AIDS under a plan by the New York City medical examiner to help measure and confine the epidemic. A1

 
New York State's drug-abuse agency gave more than $2 million in contracts to treatment programs run by friends of the head of the agency, even though those programs failed to treat a single addict, a state commission asserted. B1

 
A New York State income tax cut should be delayed, according to a recommendation that Governor Cuomo's committee of economic advisers is expected to make. B1

 
Dinkins appointee sees no new tax incentives B3

Labor leader sets demands for new pact in early talks B3

New York State Republican counsel ordered arrested B8

Holtzman wants a housecleaning B3

Father Ritter says allegations are ''nonsense'' B2

 
The tent city of the homeless in Tompkins Square Park was torn down by city and park police officers. Officials said homeless people could still sleep in the park but without tents. B1

 
New Jersey's economy has slowed to the point where the state stands a greater risk than the nation of sliding into a recession next year, a panel of economic advisers warned. B1

 
A former nurse was found guilty of murder, manslaughter and criminally negligent homicide for killing four patients as part of a scheme in which he hoped to be seen as a hero. B2

 
Producer flees court on learning of new set of charges B2

M.T.A. warns Connecticut not to deny fare increases B6

 
NEEDIEST CASES B5

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (92%); FRANCE (91%); MALAYSIA (79%); ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); BULGARIA (79%); CHILE (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (79%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); POLITICS (90%); ARMIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (71%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (66%); RENTAL PROPERTY (66%); 

PERSON: PATRICIO AZOCAR AYLWIN (56%); 



407 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1707 words

HEADLINE: Washington at Work;
Kirkland Wins Acclaim for Success Abroad, but Faces Criticism at Home

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 14

 BODY:
Television viewers could hardly have expected to see Lech Walesa when they tuned in the sitcom ''Roseanne'' and the Miami-Notre Dame football game Thanksgiving week. But there was Poland's Solidarity leader, an A.F.L.-C.I.O. button in the lapel of his conservative brown suit, promoting the labor federation in a 30-second spot that appeared in tens of millions of American living rooms.
The Nobel Peace Prize winner said, his Polish words translated in a subtitle: ''Please continue your support for us in Poland and support unions in the United States. Say union, yes!''
The $600,000 advertising campaign illustrates American labor's happy marriage with Poland's trade union movement and a clever attempt to use the world's most visible worker-hero to lift the flagging ratings and wounded spirit of America's unions. 
The effort is the brainchild of Lane Kirkland, president of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations. After a decade of quiet toiling for Solidarity, pushing early for sanctions against Poland and lobbying hard on Capitol Hill when the sanctions were eased, he is now seeing the fruits of his labor.
 
An Avowed Anti-Communist
Mr. Kirkland, a self-professed veteran of the cold war who says he has learned ''nothing new'' about foreign policy since Pearl Harbor, says the changes in Poland prove the wisdom of the federation's policy of never dealing with unions affiliated with Communist regimes.
His critics called him rigid and unrealistic. Now it is his time to crow.
''I certainly think that what's happening in Poland is a vindication of our central belief in free and democratic trade unionism and our shunning of any contacts with unions created by state power,'' said the 67-year-old labor leader, a former merchant seaman who unabashedly takes credit for helping to force concessions from the Communists. ''Solidarity was there and we kept it going.''
The A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s support for Solidarity is a story of how union bureaucrats became secret agents: large sums of money smuggled in by visitors, coded messages published in the personals columns of Poland's community newspapers, printing presses and electronics equipment from Radio Shack illegally shipped by truck and minivan. The federation pumped $5 million into Solidarity in the 1980's, opened an office for the Polish union in Brussels, publicized its plight and stood fast even when pundits said the movement was dead.
 
Acclaim From Union Leaders
These deeds have won acclaim from union members, but have done little to ease organized labor's problems at home. After Mr. Kirkland, a well-connected Washington fixture, assumed the presidency of the federation in 1979, he was expected to breathe new life into the labor movement. He has solidified labor unity in the past decade and has even won a few victories in Congress.
Last month he unanimously won a sixth term as president of the federation, a post that pays $175,000 a year and makes him the preeminent spokesman for the 14.1 million union members in the United States.
But critics say Mr. Kirkland, a former speechwriter for Adlai E. Stevenson's Presidential campaigns, has failed to stir the passions of the nation's working class or to improve the image of big labor in America. And he has been unable to devise ways to compensate for the shrinkage in America's manufacturing base, the foundation of the labor movement, or to stem a 10-year slide in the percentage of the American work force that is unionized.
Union polls have shown that the majority of the nation's union members do not even know who Mr. Kirkland is, and he could easily star in popular culture's highest tribute to anonymity, the American Express commercial.
 
Labor's Unchanged Image
''He's shored up the federation but has not been as effective in reaching outside and changing the image of labor to the public,'' said Charles Heckscher, an expert in labor relations at Harvard Business School. ''Organized labor is the least-admired institution in America, and in such an environment you need someone who can break out of the boundaries of the job and the established ways of thinking.''
The contrast between the political standing of American workers and the image of their Polish brothers was illustrated at the federation's biennial convention last month, when President Bush was profuse in his praise for Solidarity's victories and insisted that he and Mr. Walesa appear on the podium together.
A few days later Mr. Bush vetoed legislation that would have created a Congressional commission to investigate and propose solutions to the eight-month-old Eastern Airlines strike. The veto was a personal defeat for Mr. Kirkland, who had taken a visible role in the strike - even appearing on a picket line at Washington's National Airport.
Mr. Kirkland, the son of a South Carolina cotton buyer and descendant of a Confederate senator, sees himself as the worker's emissary to the world. His federation's offices in important capitals function as mini-embassies. and he has served on the boards of elite foreign policy research centers. Since the mid-1970's he has fought for a greater voice for labor in the making of foreign policy, calling international issues ''far too important to be left in the hands of a tight, incestuous breed of economists and diplomats.''
 
Help From Foreign Unions
The federation is increasingly turning to foreign labor leaders to help their American counterparts. It routinely solicits foreign trade unions to put pressure on foreign-owned companies operating on American soil that curb free trade union practices, invites labor leaders from around the world to address federation meetings and recently escorted delegations of foreign workers on visits to the striking Pittston coal mine workers.
Mr. Kirkland's international activism has prompted some union officials to grumble that he prefers the brave new world of Eastern Europe's factories to the fallow fields of American unionism. But he bristles at such suggestions, pointing to the federation's long history abroad.
''We don't go out shopping for clients and customers,'' he said. ''Workers around the world - white-collar, blue-collar, artistic and otherwise - they come to us because of our history and because of the work this organization has done over the years and despite what our detractors and critics may say about us at home.''
Nevertheless, the unions' rank and file joke that should there ever be another Democrat in the White House, Mr. Kirkland would rather be Secretary of State than Secretary of Labor.
 
At Home in Capital's Salons
Indeed, Mr. Kirkland looks more like a Cabinet member or a corporate lawyer than a grass-roots organizer. He is a man who seems more comfortable in Washington's salons than on a picket line. his friends include the painter Robert Rauschenberg, former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger and the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, Alan Greenspan. Two weeks ago Mr. Kirkland made his first trip to Poland as part of the President's Cabinet-level delegation, accompanying Secretary of Labor Elizabeth Dole in visits to to a tractor plant, a housing project and a training center.
Cozying up to the powerful has exposed Mr. Kirkland to criticism that he is too close to the Establishment, but he could not run his foreign programs without Federal funds. Of the $27 million dispersed by the federation's little-known institutes abroad in more than 80 countries last year, only $600,000 comes from union dues.
Two Government sources, the Agency for International Development, which helps economies in the developing world, and the National Endowment for Democoracy, a congressionally financed foundation that seeks to sell the principles of democracy abroad, provide the rest.
The federation spends much of its foreign funds on anti-Communist causes that have tended to coincide with White House policies, and some of the its foreign policy positions have divided the union leadership.
In 1983, for example, the presidents of 22 of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. unions criticized the federation's support for what they called right-wing anti-Communist labor unions in El Salvador. Mr. Kirkland came under fire for appearing to support former President Jose Napoleon Duarte's regime and for participating in a Commission on Central America headed by Mr. Kissinger.
 
Unflinching Support for Israel
On Israel, Mr. Kirkland remains unflinching in his support, influenced in part by his wife, Irena, a Czech-born survivor of Auschwitz.
William W. Winpisinger, who recently retired as president of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, recalls an acrimonious meeting in 1982 on a resolution on Israel's invasion of Lebanon. Mr. Kirkland refused to brook any criticism of Israel. ''In exasperation I said, 'Can't we at least condemn the killing?' and Lane jumped all over me and said, 'Israel is catching enough hell around the world, and one of their best friends isn't going to turn on them now.' ''
For now, the federation is working with fledgling labor groups in Hungary, Bulgaria and Lithuania, and it recently lobbied, unsuccessfully, to send a delegation to the Soviet Union to meet with striking Siberian coal miners about establishing the first free trade union on Soviet soil since the 1917 Revolution.
But Mr. Kirkland is being pushed to move even faster in opening alliances with workers in Eastern bloc countries, even if they are members of official unions.
''Lane - and I really mean this -is an outstanding leader, extremely intelligent with a good view of the future,'' says Douglas Fraser, former president of the United Automobile Workers who argued for a more lenient policy toward the Soviet bloc. ''But oftentimes he looks at foreign policy with blinders on.''
Indeed, Mr. Kirkland seems to find it hard to abandon the beliefs of his youth or his guardedness toward glasnost. ''Changes have come and I welcome them and I'm prepared to respond and test them further,'' he said. ''But my views were colored by the experiences of my generation, and my approach toward the Soviets hasn't changed. Glasnost is just beginning to reach the workplace.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Lech Walesa with Lane Kirkland (NYT/Jose R. Lopez)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RSH (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); POLAND (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (72%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (50%); 

COMPANY: RADIOSHACK CORP (51%); AFL-CIO (84%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (79%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (79%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (79%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (79%); THANKSGIVING (77%); COLD WAR (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); LOBBYING (75%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); SMUGGLING (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; KIRKLAND, LANE JOSEPH LANE 'LANE' KIRKLAND (92%); LECH WALESA (74%); 



408 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 42, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Betting on What in China?

 BODY:
Two big bets: President Bush gambles that China's embattled hard-liners will reward his sudden support with a big diplomatic payoff that will prove he's a savvy realist. Deng Xiaoping, who has his own brand of realism, bets that the visit of senior U.S. envoys to China reinforces his domestic and international position at minimal cost.
It's the Deng wager that is paying off. Nothing he can be expected to offer Mr. Bush is likely to efface the shame of America rushing to give official blessing to an oppressive regime that kills its own people in the streets. 
Mr. Bush wants Beijing to halt missile sales to the Middle East, restrain its Khmer Rouge allies in Cambodia and play a positive diplomatic role in its own region. Those are all worthy goals. Yet for their sake, the Administration has soft-pedaled America's most important objective: China's return to political and economic reform.
It would be dangerous to isolate a nation of one billion people, the President contends. Yes, and that's all the more reason not to isolate Washington from those Chinese who identify with reform.
Mr. Deng makes his goal plain. He demands the right to impose his idea of order on China without foreign criticism. He learned long ago that Washington practices a double standard, winking at abusive practices in China while fulminating against similar abuses elsewhere in the Communist world.
A few years back, Mr. Deng dismissed the arguments of Communists worried about possible negative Western reaction to a crackdown on student democracy demonstrators. ''We put Wei Jingsheng behind bars, didn't we?'' he recalled. ''Did that damage China's reputation?'' Wei Jingsheng, a leader of China's Democracy Wall movement 10 years ago, has been held under harsh conditions ever since. Mr. Deng subsequently pushed his liberals aside and promoted hard-liners. This spring he sent the army to clear student demonstrators from Tiananmen Square. Hundreds of idealistic young Chinese were mowed down by submachine guns.
By sending Brent Scowcroft, the national security adviser, and Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger to toast the butchers of Beijing, Mr. Bush vindicates Mr. Deng's contempt for Americans' principle and patience. The visit, and the two emissaries' failure to criticize Chinese repression, can only undermine the surviving reform forces in China, forces that a farsighted U.S. policy would try to sustain.
The point is not just of timing, or how soon is too soon to let bygones be bygones. Mr. Deng's new leadership now controls the army, the party, the Government and the security apparatus and has become steadily more repressive. Thousands of intellectuals have been arrested. Free movement of citizens has been severely restricted and Maoist ideological indoctrination reimposed. Private enterprise is now severely curbed.
Yet the Deng regime is elderly, isolated from much of the country and compelled to paper over serious policy disagreements. After 10 years of economic reform, millions of Chinese have a personal stake in renewed economic growth and ties with the outside world. Army leaders don't want to be cut off from advanced technologies.
Thus the reformers around the former party leader Zhao Ziyang have not been decisively crushed. They may yet return to power - an outcome Americans would surely welcome. Even if Beijing now rewards Mr. Bush with the concessions he seeks, the U.S. will have paid dearly. In the end, Mr. Bush failed to grasp the most hard-headed point of all: Beijing's present rulers need his approval far more than he needs their strategic help.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMIES (87%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (86%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); RIOTS (74%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ARRESTS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



409 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 43, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: ON MY MIND;
How Much Is a Baby Worth?

BYLINE: By A. M. Rosenthal

 BODY:
This was going to be a column devoted to criticizing the drug legalizers. Then I read a new study about crack babies.
Suddenly, the case for drug legalization seemed to be coming from a different world. It seemed to be a spiritually weary world where money counts more than the lives and brains of children, a world so weighed down by ennui that surrender to an agreed national disaster seemed far more sensible than struggling with it. 
Not many Americans live in this world. But among those who do are a number of important people - journalists, academics, some economists and now one Federal judge. They get a lot of attention because of who they are rather than the merit of their case.
They say it is a case so dazzling and new that opponents of legalization cannot open their minds to it lest they be blinded. In truth, it has been examined over and over and found to be based on wish fulfillment, callousness and fantasy.
The economic fantasy: If narcotics were legalized the profit would go out of the business. Right away it would wither and we would save all that money on police and jails.
That thought must be highly amusing to the drug kings. They will simply produce cheaper and stronger narcotics than the law would allow for a market swelled year after year by all those new customers introduced to drugs through legalization.
The social fantasy: The black and Hispanic communities, already losing one young generation after another to drugs, are so stupid and self-destructive that they would submissively accept the theory that their problem was too expensive to trouble with.
Allied to that is the root-cause fantasy: Nothing can be done until root economic and social problems are eliminated. Using that logic we would still have legalized segregation in the United States.
And now we have the brand-new Sweet Butter fantasy. Federal Judge Robert Sweet tells us that if Americans can learn not to use butter, why, they can learn to cut down on cocaine.
That's nice, Judge. You just go ahead and order your toast dry. But afterward you might want to call Senator Lloyd Bentsen for a copy of his study on crack babies, some of whom may never be coordinated enough to butter their toast at all.
The Texas Democrat wants his Finance Committee to examine the financial impact of crack babies, children of women addicted to cocaine in its crack form.
The groundwork study for the committee says about 375,000 crack babies were born in this country last year alone. Some mature normally but most others have problems like malformations and learning disabilities.
In the first five years of life, they do not speak or understand language as well as other babies.
And they die, a lot of them just die. The incidence of sudden infant death is 10 times larger for drug babies than just babies.
Speaking of money, Judge, $2.5 billion was spent last year just for intensive care for crack infants.
Happily, many of these children survive and can be prepared for school. But Florida estimates that because of continuing learning problems it costs $40,000 to get one drug baby ready for kindergarten - about what it costs to send a kid through college.
Nationally the cost will be about $15 billion a year to prepare all the drug babies for kindergarten. Then, of course, special learning programs for every grade would cost between $6 billion and $12 billion a year more.
Some crack babies may enter high school. But about 40 percent will leave, and those who do drop out will need special care forever - medical, employment help or welfare, for instance.
So, Judge, let's suppose there is legalization. Let's even grant that maybe we would save on jail costs. After all, what would be the point in jailing drug kings for long terms just because they can sell the stuff cheaper and better than the Government can?
But stretching our imaginations, Judge, what happens if all the crack addicts are simply not terribly moved by the stirring butter message? Isn't it at least possible that they might buy more crack from the nice clean Government store than they did when they were hassled by the cops and had to get it in filthy, dangerous hallways?
Never mind money. If we can afford the savings and loan bailout we can afford the drug war. The only worthwhile question is, would legalization mean fewer pregnant crack addicts, fewer babies with damaged brains?
Do you really think so?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ADDICTION AND ABUSE; CRACK (COCAINE); BABIES; DRUG TRAFFIC DRUG LIBERALIZATION (91%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); COCAINE (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); JUDGES (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (67%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M



410 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: In Albany and Trenton, Worries Over Economic Outlook;
Advisers to Cuomo Expected to Suggest Delay in Next Tax Cut

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Dec. 14

 BODY:
Offering Gov. Mario M. Cuomo the kind of advice that he seems to be hoping for, the Governor's committee of economic advisers will recommend that the next phase of the state's income tax cut be delayed, committee members said today.
Over the last several months, the Governor has frequently suggested delaying the tax cut to help solve the state's budget problems but has never explicitly endorsed the idea.
The report by his Council on Fiscal and Economic Priorities, which has not yet been made public, makes it even more likely that the Governor will propose a delay in the tax cut when he presents his budget next month.
 
'A Rather Sober Picture'
The report, which is expected to be released Friday, indicates that the state's financial condition is far gloomier than the Cuomo administration has acknowledged. And even with a delay in the income tax cut, the report suggests that additional tax increases will be needed to close the budget gap. 
''It paints a rather sober picture,'' one committee member said. ''There's a significant deficit looming.'' All the committee members interviewed spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Mr. Cuomo has often used committees like his economic advisory council to float unpopular measures and then gauge the public reaction to them. He has also used such prominent committees to try to win over potential opponents to his cause.
Some Cuomo administration officials were involved in the discussions that resulted in the report. But there were signficant disagreements among the members of the committee - who include some of the top business leaders in the state - about what the report should recommend.
Because of those disagreements, the report's discussion of the income tax cut is couched in vague terms and not officially labeled a recommendation. But several people familiar with the report said it represented deferring the tax cut as the most reasonable response to the state's fiscal problems.
''If you read through the bureaucratese, you would come out thinking the tax cut should be deferred,'' one committee member said.
 
Potential Budget Gap
Members of the panel said the report predicts that the state is facing a potential budget gap of at least $1.5 billion for the coming fiscal year, which starts April 1.
The last official forecast that the Cuomo administration made for the next fiscal year put the budget gap at $500 million. Since that forecast was made in February, administration officials have admitted that the gap is greater, but they have refused to say by how much.
Delaying the next phase of the income tax cut, which would lower the state's top tax rate to 7 percent from 7.5 percent, would save the state roughly $400 million next year.
To supplement this, an array of possible tax increases are listed in the report. They include an increase in the gasoline tax and a broadening of the sales tax to include additional goods and services.
 
Prepared by Subcommittee
The report was drafted by a 16-member subcommittee of the Council on Fiscal and Economic Priorities. The co-chairmen of the subcommittee are Felix G. Rohatyn, chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, and James D. Robinson 3d, chairman of American Express.
The chairman of the full council is the president of New York University, John Brademas.
In the past, the Governor has relied heavily on the recommendations of his economic advisory committee, whose members include the heads of several of the state's major corporations. Just a few days after the committee recommended in 1986 that the state cut its personal income tax rates, for example, Governor Cuomo proposed a tax cut that mirrored the recommendation.
Today, the Governor's budget director, Dall W. Forsythe, who has been privy to most drafts of the report, insisted that he did not know what the committee would recommend.
''When we get them, we'll take their recommendations very seriously,'' Mr. Forsythe said. ''It's an important group.''
 
Fraught With Controversy
The disagreement among the committee members over their report indicates how fraught with controversy next year's budget negotiations are likely to be. The state's largest business lobbying group, the Business Council, has said it will oppose a deferral of the income tax cut, but many other groups, including labor unions and advocates for the poor, have come out in favor of a delay.
The report augurs more bad news for New York City, which is suffering from severe fiscal problems of its own. If the state's fiscal situation is as dire as the report suggests, the city is unlikely to receive any increased aid from the state. One of the report's strongest recommendations is that state spending be stringently curtailed next year.
''The picture is not good,'' said one official familiar with the report. ''The city is going to have to live within its own budget. And the same medicine would not be a bad thing for the state.''

GRAPHIC: photo of James D. Robinson 3d (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS; FINANCES; TAXATION; INCOME TAX TAX RELIEF (91%); GOVERNORS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (76%); 

PERSON: KOLBERT, ELIZABETH; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); ROBINSON, JAMES D 3D



411 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: In Albany and Trenton, Worries Over Economic Outlook;
New Jersey Economy Grew Much Slower Than Nation's in '89

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, Dec. 14

 BODY:
After six years of sustained growth, New Jersey's economy slowed so sharply this year that the state stands a greater risk than the nation of sliding into a recession next year, a panel of economic advisers to the Governor warned today.
The panel, the Economic Policy Council, predicted an economic growth rate of only about 2 percent next year and said any increase in state spending greater than that might require new taxes.
''This is one of many indications that there might be difficult times ahead,'' said Jon Shure, the spokesman for Governor- elect James J. Florio, who will be submitting his first budget to the Legislature in February at about the time the council expects the worst effects of the economic slump to become apparent.
 
'A Normal Business Cycle'
Gov. Thomas H. Kean's administration was sanguine. Calling the economic downturn ''a normal business cycle,'' Mr. Kean's press secretary, Carl R. Golden, said:
''The Governor has been saying since the summer that our tax revenues are down. However, we're weathering this better than they are in Massachusetts and New York, where they are predicting large budget deficits. We're still looking for a budget surplus.'' 
The health of the economy has become a major concern for Mr. Florio, who said during the campaign that he saw no need to raise taxes. Instead, he promised to improve state services chiefly by a reordering of priorities and more efficient management.
In recent days Mr. Florio has said he is concerned about the weakening tax collections and the effect they will have on paying for the state's current $12.1 billion budget and his first state budget.
Dr. Joseph J. Seneca, professor of economics at Rutgers University and chairman of of the Economic Policy Council, said that 1989 was a year of fundamental change in the New Jersey economy.
 
'Slower Than the Nation'
''After years of consistently outperforming the national economy, we grew much slower than the nation this year in virtually every major area,'' he said.
Manufacturing continues its long decline in the state despite some improvement nationally attributed to increased exports; unemployment rates are rising; retail sales are down, especially for durable goods like automobiles; housing starts are dropping and could hit bottom during 1990, and consumer confidence is low, the report released today by the three-member council said.
In addition employment in service industries, which Dr. Seneca described as ''the engine that has driven the New Jersey economy'' and offset manufacturing losses in the past, decreased sharply this year.
Dr. William C. Freund, chief economist emeritus of the New York Stock Exchange and a council member for 22 years, said a recession, if it appeared, should not be deep or long-lasting.
 
Early Recovery Expected
''The good news is we are not facing a collapse or a disaster,'' he said. ''We should hit bottom before the middle of next year and begin to recover after that.''
He said the New Jersey economy was ''particularly vulnerable to a decline because it has performed so well.''
''In effect, we are paying the price for the success of the past decade,'' he said.
He also said the economic slowdown in New Jersey was being reflected throughout the Northeast.
Dr. Freund said he expected the Federal Reserve Board to lower interest rates next year in response to a slowing national economy. He said this could prompt increased consumer spending and improve the housing market. There were 42,000 housing starts in New Jersey in 1988 and 36,000 this year, and about 33,000 are anticipated in 1990.
 
A Spending Correction Seen
Retail sales, which averaged an 8.7 percent increase over the last six years and grew by 10.2 percent in 1988 alone, will grow by only 2.4 percent this year, the council projected. For many years, increases in retail sales outpaced increases in personal income, and the council said consumers might at last be restoring some balance between their incomes and expenditures.
Since 1985 total manufacturing in the United States has increased by 2.1 percent, while New Jersey has seen a 6.5 percent decline.
The chemical industry, the state's largest with 120,000 workers, grew by 0.5 percent during that period ,while thatin the country as a whole grew by 5.2 percent. The council said further research was needed to explain the reasons for the state's poor performance and to devise strategies to improve the picture.
 
Personal Income Is Strong
The one still strong economic indicator in the report was the growth of personal income, which increased about 8 percent this year, compared with 9 percent last year. A tight labor market helped lift salaries, and consumer caution led to more investment and less spending. As a result, income from interest and dividends also grew.
However, as unemployment rates increase, the growth in personal income will inevitably decline, the council report said.
Dr. David F. Bradford, professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University and the third council member, said he was concerned over evidence suggesting that the state's poorest residents did not benefit very much from the recent strong economy. He said they would probably be the first the feel the effects of the economic slowdown.

GRAPHIC: photo of Dr. Joseph J. Seneca (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY COUNCIL, NEW JERSEY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: FORECASTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (92%); BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); RECESSION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); DURABLE GOODS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); RETAIL SALES (50%); STOCK EXCHANGES (50%); 

PERSON: SENECA, JOSEPH J (PROF)



412 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Labor Leader Sets Demands For New Pact in Early Talks

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
Amid warnings of impending New York City deficits, a senior city union leader yesterday staked out an unusually early position in upcoming labor negotiations and called for moderate wage increases equal to the rate of inflation at the least.
In addition, the leader, Barry Feinstein, president of local 237 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, said his union was prepared to support random drug tests of its members if the city set up a rehabilitation program and protected workers' privacy.
The announcement appeared aimed at seizing the initiative from business leaders who have begun calling for wage deferrals, givebacks and increased workloads for city workers. By coming before Mayor-elect David N. Dinkins takes office, Mr. Feinstein also seemed to be seeking to steal a beat from other union leaders. 
''We want to stop some of the off-the-wall comments by those who are not in government, attempting to shape what unions should or shouldn't be doing in this round of bargaining,'' Mr. Feinstein said. ''If such calls were taken seriously the city work force would be bereft of wages and benefits.''
 
Seeking Annuity Fund
Even so, Mr. Feinstein, who was a principal Dinkins supporter during the campaign, presented a bargaining position that was moderate compared to positions taken at the outset of ne gotiations in previous years, and that seemed to reflect Mr. Feinstein's own bleak fiscal analysis.
He called for an across-the-board 5 percent increase over two years to keep up, he said, with projected infla tion, and additional increases for some workers - especially hospital technicians, whose salaries lagged behind those of wages won by workers in non-city hospitals - and the establishment of an annuity fund to augment pensions for members of the union.
In a statement, Mr. Dinkins, who has not yet announced the appointment of a labor negotiator, said that labor agreements must be negotiated ''with strict attention to the city's fiscal environment,'' and ''in good faith and candor at the bargaining table.''
Paul Dickstein, the city's budget director, called Mr. Feinstein's statement ''moderate'' and reflected the fact that ''Barry does understand the city's fiscal condition well.''
But Mr. Dickstein noted that the city's financial plan for next year projects a $395 million deficit, assuming labor settlements that cost an additional 1.5 percent a year. He said that the 5 percent increases sought by the union would cost $385 million more the first year, and $770 million in the second year of the contract.
 
Warning of Fiscal Limits
Negotiations of new contracts for the more than 200,000 city workers is a major challenge facing Mr. Dinkins in his first year of office. Contracts for Mr. Feinstein's 10,000 city workers, and for police officers, firefighters and sanitation workers expire next June 30. Contracts for teachers and most other city workers expire on Sept. 30.
Earlier this month, Felix G. Rohatyn, the chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, warned Mr. Dinkins that he should plan a no-growth city budget. He proposed the deferral of all wage increases, or the payment of small increases, offset by reductions in the city work force.
Mr. Feinstein announced his bargaining position only days after Mr. Dinkins, in a speech to a business group, adopting the gloomy tone used by Mr. Rohatyn, warned that fiscal problems were setting limits on what government can afford to do.
Concerns over these issues, Mr. Feinstein said, led him to accelerate his schedule for beginning negotiations. He said he would be calling the new administration on Jan. 2, to set a date for the first bargaining session.
Other union leaders said this reflected Mr. Feinstein's desire to make the first settlement with the city, setting a pattern that would be followed by other unions, and enhancing his reputation as one of the city's most sophisticated and experienced labor leaders.
Leaders of major non-uniformed municipal unions worked together to elect Mr. Dinkins, but since Election Day, have been less cooperative in developing approaches to the new administration. Until the mid-80's the unions conducted joint negotiations with the city.
Stanley Hill, executive director of District Council 37 of the American Federation of State County and Municipal Employees, which represents 140,000 workers, said he was surprised by Mr. Feinstein's announcement, especially since they were both suing the city over a new drug-testing policy.
''Barry speaks for Barry only, he does not speak for Stanley Hill or other union leaders,'' Mr. Hill said. ''For the past year and a half we were a team, working to get David elected. I am trying to figure out what is happening.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; PRIVACY, RIGHT OF; DRUG ADDICTION AND ABUSE; TESTS AND TESTING EMPLOYEE PRIVACY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (76%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (72%); DRUG TESTING (71%); MAYORS (70%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (70%); 

PERSON: BARBANEL, JOSH; FEINSTEIN, BARRY



413 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins Appointee Sees No New Tax Incentives

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
Sally B. Hernandez-Pinero, who is to be deputy mayor for finance and economic development in the administration of David N. Dinkins, said yesterday that she did not foresee New York City providing any new tax incentives to help retain businesses in the near future.
In a briefing and an interview in which she made her first comments about her new job, Ms. Hernandez-Pinero also said she did not envision the Dinkins administration offering special concessions to keep companies in Manhattan when alternative sites were available in the other four boroughs.
''It's highly unlikely that we would offer additional incentives to keep someone in Manhattan,'' said Ms. Hernandez-Pinero, who was formerly Mr. Dinkins's deputy Manhattan Borough President and has been the city's Commissioner of Financial Services for nearly two years. 
''I think we would try every effort to persuade them that there are a lot of other advantages to relocating to the other boroughs,'' she said in the interview. ''And I'm sort of buoyed by our success with Chase and a lot of development in Brooklyn and Long Island City.''
 
'We Don't Have the Money'
She was referring to the decision of the Chase Manhattan Bank last year to relocate 5,000 computer operations workers to the planned Metrotech development in downtown Brooklyn instead of New Jersey, after the Koch administration and the state offered a special $235 million package of tax incentives, energy discounts and security arrangements.
''I'm not certain that the package of incentives that we currently can offer cannot be improved in terms of how they're leveraged in specific situations,'' Ms. Hernandez-Pinero said at a briefing in the Manhattan borough president's office, one of a series that has been scheduled for reporters with the Mayor-elect's new appointees.
''But I don't see adding dollars,'' she said. ''I don't see adding new programs or new incentives. Quite frankly, we just don't have the money.''
Later, in the interview, she stressed that such matters would be handled case by case, and that there would be room for negotiation. ''David doesn't take absolutist positions,'' she said.
A spokesman for the New York Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Richard Riley, said the business group would have ''no substantive comment'' on Ms. Hernandez-Pinero's remarks. ''But as always, we'll be happy to work with her on specific issues,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: photo of Sally B. Hernandez-Pinero (NYT/Don Hogan Charles)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE & INDUSTRY INSURANCE CO (51%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; TAXATION TAX INCENTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MAYORS (89%); RELOCATIONS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES); HERNANDEZ-PINERO, SALLY B (COMR) ANN LIVERMORE (71%); 



414 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 9, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 3367 words

HEADLINE: Andrei Sakharov, 68, Nuclear Inventor and Mainspring of the Soviet Conscience

BYLINE: By RAYMOND H. ANDERSON

 BODY:
Andrei Dmitriyevich Sakharov was one of those rare figures who appear at turning points in history, a man whose courage in fighting for intellectual and political freedom impressed much of the world but put him in long and dangerous conflict with his own country.
Dr. Sakharov, a nuclear physicist who was haunted by the weapons he had helped create, left the prestige and orderly life of his top-secret research laboratory for the dangerous spotlight of a struggle against oppression, censorship, and threats to civilization from war and society's destruction of the environment.
In an earlier age, he might have been a Socrates or a Roger Bacon, challenging the established order in a search for truth or secrets of the universe.
In the Soviet age, he was to be known as a dissident.
For years after he turned his back on the Soviet establishment, Dr. Sakharov was criticized, threatened, insulted, ostracized and then, in January 1980, exiled to the remote and closed Volga city of Gorky. 
 
Call From Gorbachev
Seven years later, when he was ailing in body and seemingly broken in spirit, he received a telephone call from Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the Soviet leader bent on modernizing the Soviet Union. Mr. Gorbachev told the physicist he could return to Moscow and take his place in a changing society.
It was an appropriate decision, considering that Dr. Sakharov's program for social, political and economic justice had become a key part of Mr. Gorbachev's campaign of glasnost and perestroika.
While he was in nuclear weapons research, Dr. Sakharov was virtually unknown outside the small circles of scientific and political leaders. In 1968, he emerged dramatically in the human rights struggle and became the movement's inspiration and standard-bearer.
After his return from the Gorky exile, Dr. Sakharov was widely referred to as the conscience of Soviet society, a man who had held true to his dream and principles when others capitulated.
He was allowed for the first time to travel abroad. This year, he even got a seat in the new Congress of People's Deputies, a legislative body for rebuilding the nation. With usual bluntness, he gave his views from the podium and won cheers from young, liberal deputies and jeers from the older conservatives.
 
Patriotic Scientist
In earlier years, in his nuclear weapons research, Dr. Sakharov collaborated with Igor Y. Tamm in a priority project after World War II to develop a fission bomb. The weapon was detonated in 1949 to the terror of the West. Dr. Sakharov then went on to play a principal role in the breakthrough to the even more deadly hydrogen weapons.
The physicist looked upon his work then as a patriotic endeavor, necessary to help his homeland build a deterrent shield against the growing nuclear arsenal of the United States.
In recognition of his achievements, the Soviet Academy of Sciences elected him a full member in 1953, when he was only 32 years old. His status brought esteem, a fabulous income for a Soviet citizen, a car and driver always at call, a large apartment in the city and a luxurious cottage in the countryside.
Dr. Sakharov was also honored with many of the high awards that the Soviet state bestows upon its distinguished citizens, including the Stalin Prize, the Order of Lenin and the unusual distinction of being a three-time Hero of Socialist Labor.
He gave it all up and for years alienated his own children, Dmitri, Tatyana and Lyubov when he rebelled against both the nuclear peril and the Kremlin's politics.
Dr. Sakharov's first known step to dissent began in 1957 over the issue of radioactive hazards posed by nuclear test explosions in the atmosphere.
 
Treated as an Eccentric
In later years, he was to denounce social injustice, political arrests, censorship, distortions in the economy, weaknesses in science and education, alcoholism, poor health care and low salaries that kept most people on the edge of poverty.
At first, the Kremlin leaders listened to Dr. Sakharov's concerns with attention and a degree of respect. Later, they began to treat him as an eccentric but invaluable scientist whose whims had to be indulged. Even when he infuriated the leaders with stinging public criticism in 1968, they refrained from open reply for four years, hoping to persuade him to return to the nuclear laboratory.
Vexed by his sharpening defiance and criticism of Soviet policy, including the December 1979 invasion of Afghanistan, and worried by his many contacts with Westerners, the Soviet security police seized Dr. Sakharov on a Moscow street on Jan. 22, 1980, stripped him of rights, awards and privileges and flew him to Gorky.
That Volga city is a top-secret center of military industry, off limits to foreigners. There, he lived in an isolated apartment, mostly without a telephone and under constant security police surveillance, harassment and threats. He was confined to Gorky for seven years.
Support for the scientist in his lonely struggle came mainly from abroad. It took the form of the Nobel Peace Prize in 1975, high tribute from world leaders, scholars and scientists, and the emergence of a virtual Sakharov cult at Western universities.
 
No Word for Two Years
As time passed in his exile, apprehension abroad about Dr. Sakharov began to fade. But it flared again in 1984, when the physicist went on a hunger strike to support his wife's demand that she be allowed to go abroad for heart and eye treatment.
Dr. Sakharov disappeared in May that year, and no word was received from or about him for two years.
The outside world seemed bewildered about what to do on behalf of Dr. Sakharov and his wife, Yelena G. Bonner. In July 1984, for example, the European Parliament voted to send a delegation to the Soviet Union to try to visit him. But it turned down a proposal that a seat in its hall be left permanently empty in tribute to him.
As early as 1958, Dr. Sakharov attracted attention outside the Soviet Union when he and a colleague, Yakov B. Zeldovich, published an article in the Communist Party newspaper Pravda criticizing a plan by Nikita S. Khrushchev, the impulsive party chief, to compel high school graduates to work for a year in factories or elsewhere before being allowed to go on to universities or technical institutes.
The two scientists insisted that such an interruption would be particularly harmful to students gifted in the sciences. What such students needed, they insisted, was accelerated study. Many of Dr. Sakharov's proposals for emphasis on the scientific method and new mathematics were adopted by the Soviet educational system, although he got no credit.
 
Shortcut to Forefront
In 1963, he was embroiled in a controversy over the harm caused to Soviet science by Lysenkoism, the primitiveteaching of Trofim D. Lysenko, the agronomist who maintained that acquired characteristics could be transmitted to the next generation.
This doctrine was, in the party's view, a shortcut that could take the Soviet Union and its peoples into the world's forefront, producing a new Soviet man and wondrous farm crops and animals. Dr. Sakharov supported classical geneticists, irritating Mr. Khrushchev but helping to break the hold of Lysenkoism on Soviet biological science.
Perhaps the turning point for Dr. Sakharov came in 1966, when he and other intellectuals began to worry about a move to revive Stalin as an authority figure. Their apprehension was aroused by the trial and imprisonment of two writers, Andrei D. Sinyavsky and Yuli M. Daniel, on charges of slandering the Soviet Union through publication abroad of satirical and critical manuscripts under pseudonyms.
In October 1964, Mr. Khrushchev was deposed, and his successors, Leonid I. Brezhnev, Aleksei N. Kosygin and Nikolai V. Podgorny, were edging toward rehabilitation of Stalin.
 
Heeded the Warning
Dr. Sakharov and 24 other prominent figures, including Maya Plisetskaya, the ballerina, and Konstantin Paustovsky, the writer, sent a letter to Mr. Brezhnev, the party leader, warning that ''the people would never understand or accept'' restoration of Stalin to a place of honor.
The party heeded the warning, deciding on a more gradual approach to ease the stigma and shame evoked by Stalin's name.
In 1968, a wave of dissident protests, repression and trials caused severe tension in the Soviet Union. A bitter conflict with China was taking on menacing form. Czechoslovakia was stirring against remnants of Stalinism and was moving fast along the road of liberalism toward ''Socialism with a human face.''
In 1968, the Soviet nuclear-weapons program lost Dr. Sakharov.
The high point of his fight against repression came in the summer, when tensions were high in Moscow as the Soviet army and its allies prepared to invade Czechoslovakia.
 
Look at the Perils
In a 10,000-word typewritten essay circulating clandestinely hand to hand in the intellectual community, ''Progress, Coexistence and Intellectual Freedom,'' Dr. Sakharov took a long-range look at the perils confronting the world - ''war, hunger, environmental pollution, stultifying mass culture and demagogic myths.''
The only hope for the future of civilization, Dr. Sakharov wrote, was cooperation between the Soviet Union and the United States and an ultimate convergence of their opposing systems.
''Profound thoughts arise only in debate, with a possibility of counterargument, only when there is a possibility of expressing not only correct ideas but also dubious ideas,'' he wrote. ''The philosophers of ancient Greece understood this, and it is unlikely that anyone would challenge this today. But, after 50 years of full control over the minds of the entire country, our leadership seems to be afraid of even a hint at such debate.''
The essay called for a thorough investigation into the damaging effects of Stalin's decades of dictatorial rule and demanded that ''neo-Stalinists'' be ousted from positions of influence.
 
'The Only Guarantee'
''Intellectual freedom is the only guarantee of a scientific-democratic approach to politics, economic development and culture,'' he declared.
These were daring words in a Communist society under the tight control of the party and the security police.
A Moscow dissident relayed one of a handful of copies of the essay to a foreign correspondent, and The New York Times published an article about it on July 11, 1968, and printed the full translated text 11 days later, after arrangements had been made to get the manuscript to New York. The essay was broadcast back to the Soviet Union repeatedly by the Voice of America and other Western shortwave stations.
The impact was profound and long-lasting. Around the world, people expressed amazement that such honest expressions of conscience could come from a person born and reared in the totalitarian Soviet system.
Soviet officials attempted to get Dr. Sakharov to sign an article already prepared for Izvestia, saying the essay in by The New York Times was a fraud. He refused. Dr. Sakharov was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. When he left the party headquarters and drove back to his laboratory, the guards refused to open the gate for him.
Dr. Sakharov was transferred to the Lebedev Physics Institute but remained a member of the Academy of Sciences. He was penalized by a salary cut, but he still received five times the salary of an ordinary worker. He was allowed to keep his academy-assigned apartment and country cottage, and he was eligible until his exile to Gorky to summon a car and driver from the Academy of Sciences' motor pool -sometimes, he once said, to drive him to dissident gatherings.
 
Liberal Intellectuals
Andrei D. Sakharov was born on May 21, 1921, into a Moscow family of cultured and liberal intellectuals. This, he said, was a determining factor in shaping his world outlook. His father, Dmitri, was a physics professor and author of a number of well-known texts. His grandfather, repelled by a wave of hangings in the 1905 revolution, attracted attention throughout Russia by a campaign to eliminate the death penalty.
''From childhood, I lived in an atmosphere of decency, mutual help and tact, a liking for work and respect for the mastery of one's profession,'' Dr. Sakharov wrote.
He studied physics at Moscow University, where he was quickly recognized as a brilliant student. He had just completed his third year when, on June 22, 1941, the Germans invaded the Soviet Union.
In a rare exemption during wartime, he was allowed to stay in the university to complete his studies in 1942. For the remainder of the war, Dr. Sakharov worked as an engineer in a military plant and he won recognition for improvements in quality control.
 
Peaceful Use of Atom
In 1945, the war over, he began graduate studies, and in 1948 received a candidate's degree, roughly equivalent to a Western doctorate. He then vanished for a decade, going off to the top-secret nuclear-weapons project in remote Turkmenistan. While there, he also worked on peaceful uses of nuclear energy. As a scientist, Dr. Sakharov was not required to join the Communist Party.
The nuclear project was under the control of Lavrentii P. Beria, head of the security police until 1953, when he was arrested and executed. Prisoners did most of the atomic project labor.
''Every day I saw the huge material, intellectual and nervous resources of thousands of people being poured into the creation of a means of total destruction, something capable of annihilating all human civilization,'' Dr. Sakharov wrote in the introduction to ''Sakharov Speaks,'' published in New York by Alfred A. Knopf in 1974. ''I noticed that the control levers were in the hands of people who, though talented in their own way, were cynical.''
 
'Impotence and Fright'
He made a vain effort in the late 1950's to persuade Mr. Khrushchev to cancel a series of atmospheric tests and tried later to stop what he termed ''the senseless detonation of an enormous hydrogen bomb,'' whose fallout, he warned, would be certain to cause a ''colossal'' number of radiation victims. The bomb was detonated anyway.
''The feeling of impotence and fright that seized me on that day has remained in my memory ever since,'' he wrote.
In 1963, the United States and the Soviet Union signed a treaty banning nuclear explosions in space, the atmosphere and under water. Dr. Sakharov's forebodings about mankind were eased by that treaty. And he was gratified that he had played a key role in persuading Moscow to accept the curbs.
In March 1970, the nuclear physicist, by now a world-noted dissident, was joined by Valentin Turchin, a mathematican who later emigrated to the United States, and Roy Medvedev, a Marxist historian and unrelenting critic of Stalinism, in addressing a troubled letter to the Kremlin leadership, analyzing failures throughout the Soviet system, including ''economic breakdown and stagnation.''
The critique was devastating. The three pointed to crippling policy errors and red tape in the economy, technological backwardness, defects in planning and accounting, widespread alcoholism, censorship, imprisonment of writers, plundering of forests, ruin of farmland and pollution of water resources.
 
Easing of Secrecy
''The cause of all this trouble,'' the letter said, was not the Soviet Communist system as such, but rather ''cruel distortions in the system caused by the antidemocratic traditions and norms of public life'' that appeared during Stalin's dictatorship and persisted after his death.
They proposed an urgent program of democratization, a gradual easing of obsessive secrecy, amnesty for political prisoners, elimination of nationality designations in passports, reforms in industry, education and the press, and gradual introduction at all levels of multiple candidates for party and government posts.
The proposals, which focused on the worst sore points of Soviet society, met only cold silence from Soviet officialdom.
Persisting in the struggle and turning more and more to foreign public opinion for support, Dr. Sakharov and two others, Andrei Tverdokhlebov and Valery Chalidze, who later went to the United States, announced on Nov. 4, 1970, the formation of a Committee for Human Rights, seeking to implement in the Soviet Union the terms of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
After the death of his first wife, Klavdiya, in the late 1960's, Dr. Sakharov married Yelena G. Bonner in 1971. She was a physician whom he met at a dissident rally. He left his large Academy of Sciences apartment and moved into her modest two-room quarters, which they shared with her mother.
 
Nobel Prize
Over the years, Miss Bonner gave him support in his lonely battle, and she was to become the focus of wrath and charges that she had incited Dr. Sakharov to commit dissident deeds.
In 1975, at a time when he was under growing threats and pressure, the Norwegian Parliament's Nobel Committee said Dr. Sakharov ''has fought not only against the abuse of power and violations of human dignity in all its forms, but has with equal vigor fought for the ideal of a state founded on the principle of justice for all.''
Stung by the Nobel Committee's gesture, Moscow branded Dr. Sakharov ''a judas'' and ''laboratory rat of the West.'' He was denied a visa to go to Norway for the award. His wife, in Italy for eye care, went to Oslo and read his speech, in which he again stressed the urgency of intellectual freedom.
In January 1977, a day after the inauguration of President Jimmy Carter, Dr. Sakharov sent him a letter citing human-rights violations and oppression in the Soviet Union. He received a reply through the American Embassy, but there was no further correspondence between the two as human rights were overshadowed by other issues in Washington.
 
Afghanistan Invasion
In the letter, Dr. Sakharov said a bomb blast in a Moscow subway car, which killed several people, was similar in purpose to the Hitler-inspired Reichstag fire in 1933, which enabled the Nazis to consolidate their rule, and the Stalin-instigated murder of Sergei Kirov in Leningrad in 1934, which opened the door to a wave of purge trials.
In December 1979, when the Soviet leaders were trying to stifle the dissident movement as the Moscow Olympics approached, they complicated their own uneasy situation by sending troops into Afghanistan. Dr. Sakharov alarmed the Kremlin by denouncing the military intervention and urging the world to retaliate through a boycott of the Olympics.
The response was swift. Security officers of the K.G.B. stopped an Academy of Sciences car taking Dr. Sakharov to a seminar, removed him and delivered him to a deputy prosecutor, who informed him that he had been stripped of his state honors and would be sent to Gorky, 250 miles east of Moscow. His wife was given two hours to pack and accompany him to the airport.
In Gorky, Dr. Sakharov was kept isolated from the world. His mail was intercepted, and most of his visitors were turned away by secret police agents. In 1984, after he went on a hunger strike, all visitors were barred.
Dr. Sakharov's attempts to call friends and supporters from public telephones were thwarted by the security police. Yet he managed to transmit a manuscript, which he titled ''A Time of Anxiety,'' to The New York Times. In it he told of a grim life in exile and reiterated his many criticisms of the soviet system.
 
'What Kind of Country?'
Five months after being sent into exile, when he learned that a dissident friend, Viktor Nekipelov, had been sentenced to a labor camp for anti-Soviet activities, Dr. Sakharov asked, in a stinging statement passed to Westerners in Moscow by his wife, ''What kind of country is this, cruel and without a soul, that destroys its best citizens and cynically breaks its own laws and international agreements?''
After Mr. Gorbachev intervened in December 1986 to permit him return to Moscow, Dr. Sakharov became an ally of the Soviet leader, speaking out in support of the program for democratization. But he warned often against letting any Soviet leader acquire too much power.

GRAPHIC: photos of Andrei D. Sakharov (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); PHYSICS (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); WORLD WAR II (70%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: SAKHAROV, ANDREI D; ANDERSON, RAYMOND H ANDREI DMITRIEVICH SAKHAROV (94%); 



415 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 32, Column 3; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Diner's Journal

BYLINE: By BRYAN MILLER

 BODY:

Upscale Brasserie New York could surely use some authentic French brasseries, those bright, bustling, drop-in restaurants that serve traditional fare at economical prices. La Cite, the dazzling new rococo extravaganza on West 51st Street, is a bit highfalutin to be called a brasserie. A better term might be brassaurant, Manhattan style, where prices can escalate fast. 
The grand, multi-level setting has two main dining arenas and a more intimate grill room. Art Deco molding, wonderfully garish period chandeliers, ornate columns, mirrors and a hustling staff in snappy black jackets make for an exuberant scene. A jeroboam of Champagne is wheeled around the dining room like a float at the Macy's Thanksgiving Day parade, and a sneak preview of the choucroute garnie is displayed in a large silver voiture.
It is too bad the choucroute ($23.50) did not live up to its stellar billing. Instead of a juicy melange of juniper-laced sauerkraut, sausages, pork and potatoes, this tasted as if it had been assembled at the last minute, therefore lacking integrated flavors. Cassoulet ($21.50) was unevenly cooked, with dry pork and moist preserved duck. The best dish was grilled sirloin, well aged and tender, with an excellent bearnaise sauce and french fries that unfortunately had absorbed too much oil ($29.50). The unusual salade Nicoise - a mound of rare-grilled tuna slices bedded on green beans, red potatoes, tomatoes, mixed greens, olives and laces of fried shallots, all in a good vinaigrette ($26.50) -would make a fine light meal.
La Cite, 120 West 51st Street (956-7100), serves lunch and dinner from noon to midnight daily. The grill room serves from noon to 2 A.M. All major credit cards are accepted.
 
Late Supper at '21'
The ''21'' Club, in an attempt to bolster late-night dining, is offering a special supper menu from 10:30 P.M. to midnight in the downstairs dining room. Among dishes on the late menu, served Monday to Saturday, are Caesar salad ($11), black bean soup ($7.50), fried clams with spicy tartar sauce ($12.50), fettuccine with grilled radicchio, walnuts and Parmesan ($22), and venison chili with toasted tortillas ($25). A pre-theater menu ($37.50 prix fixe) is served from 5:30 to 6:30 P.M. Monday to Saturday. Reservations: 582-7200.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITE, LA (NEW YORK CITY RESTAURANT)

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS RESTAURANTS (90%); MENU PRICES (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); THANKSGIVING (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (72%); 

PERSON: MILLER, BRYAN



416 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
The Economy
Troubled real estate loans are causing heavy losses for bankers in the Northeast. With office vacancy rates reaching 25 to 30 percent in places like central New Jersey and Stamford, Conn., and with many condominium developments still only half filled after two years on the market, a growing number of developers are having trouble paying off their loans. Bankers concede that they may never collect the full value of their loans to developers. Among the 10 states whose banks show the highest increase in troubled real estate loans, all but two are in the Northeast. [Page A1.] 
Business inventories climbed to their highest level in two months in October. Some analysts said that while the backlog had not reached a dangerous level, it was a growing concern. [D1.]
The Justice Department is investigating whether several airlines, including American, Delta, Pan Am and Northwest, illegally fixed prices in a round of fare increases in September. [D4.]
 
 
 
Companies
Shearson Lehman Hutton and American Express announced a plan to raise badly needed cash by issuing stock and debt and selling assets. The plan succeeded in preventing a downgrading of Shearson's debt. In late October, Moody's Investors Service said it was reviewing Shearson's debt. A lower debt rating would have increased Shearson's cost of borrowing. [D1.]
A company that advances money to retail suppliers will cut off funds to companies selling goods to Campeau. A spokeswoman for Heller Financial said the company acted because of the news that Campeau might seek bankruptcy protection for its two American department store divisions. [D1.]
Xerox sued Apple Computer, accusing it of unlawfully using Xerox copyrights in its Macintosh and Lisa computers. Xerox is seeking more than $150 million in royalties and damages. [D1.]
T. Boone Pickens will eliminate Mesa Limited Partnership's common distribution. The company has been battered by a depressed market for natural gas. [D5.]
Groups led by Robert M. Bass and Safeway Stores have raised their stakes in Vons, the California supermarket chain. [D5.]
 
 
 
Markets
The stock market closed moderately lower after recouping more than half of its deepest decline. The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 7.46, at 2,753.63, after being down as much 18 points at midday. [D6.]
Prices of Treasury securities moved higher, pushed by renewed selling in the high-yield ''junk bond'' market and a larger than expected increase in weekly unemployment claims. [D13.]
Prices for near-term deliveries of hogs surged more than a penny a pound on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange as frigid weather in the Midwest reduced slaughter rates. [D14.]
The dollar finished mixed in dull trading on world currency markets. Gold prices slipped overseas but appeared to stabilize in trading in the U.S. [D14.]
 
International
The S.E.C. and its French counterpart signed a sweeping agreement, agreeing to cooperate in each other's investigations of insider trading, misrepresentation, manipulation and fraud in securities offerings and purchases. [D4.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
Institutions with large ''junk bond'' portfolios are turning their holdings into readily marketable securities with investment-grade ratings. Market Place. [D1.]
Most economists still contend that there will be no recession in 1990. Leonard Silk: Economic Scene. [D2.]
McCaffrey & McCall named William J. Vieser its president. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D9.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: SWY (NYSE) (81%); AXP (NYSE) (56%); CME (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (81%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (81%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (78%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: SAFEWAY INC (81%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (68%); MESA LP (65%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); CME GROUP INC (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS REAL ESTATE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); CURRENCIES (83%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); METALS MARKETS (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (77%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); DIVESTITURES (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); AIRLINES (73%); PRICE FIXING (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); INVENTORIES (73%); CONDOMINIUMS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); STOCK OFFERINGS (72%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (72%); NATURAL GAS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (70%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); ROYALTIES (68%); DEPARTMENT STORES (68%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (67%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (66%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); 

PERSON: ROBERT BASS (50%); 



417 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Inventories Up by 0.4%; Sales Off 0.7%

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 14

 BODY:
Business inventories climbed to their highest level in two months in October. Some analysts said that while the backlog had not reached a dangerous level, it was a growing concern.
The Commerce Department said today that inventories climbed four-tenths of 1 percent in October, to a seasonally adjusted $793.9 billion, after remaining flat in September. The September report was revised from a two-tenths of 1 percent increase reported initially, and followed August's gain of four-tenths of 1 percent. 
 
Sales Ratio Up
Business sales in October dropped seven-tenths of 1 percent, to a seasonally adjusted $519.2 billion, after falling a revised seven-tenths of 1 percent in September. September sales were originally reported to have fallen three-tenths of 1 percent, after rising 3 percent in August.
The October business activity produced a slight increase, to 1.53, in the ratio of sales, meaning it would take 1.53 months to exhaust inventories at the October pace. The ratio was 1.51 in September and 1.50 in August.
''We have not reached the point where we need to call out the Marines, but there are some warning signals,'' said Robert G. Dederick, chief economist for the Northern Trust Company in Chicago.
But Michael P. Niemira, an economist at the Mitsubishi Bank in New York, said that while businesses should be cautious, their inventory control systems should be able to adjust before problems became too serious.
If inventories were to pile up excessively, it could mean cutbacks in production and a loss of jobs, perhaps leading to a recession. However, neither Mr. Dederick nor Mr. Niemira found the ratio to be at a dangerous level.
Mr. Niemira suggested that the ratio reflected the end of the slow-growth cycle and predicted that ''things will begin to look better in 1990.''
 
Auto Inventories Fall
The Commerce Department reported that retail automobile inventories fell 3.7 percent in October, but Mr. Niemira said that represented some problems with the Government's seasonal adjustment factor, because car sales have plummeted since the end of September.
Inventories at the manufacturing level, which represent about 45 percent of the total, rose three-tenths of 1 percent. Manufacturing sales, on the other hand, dropped six-tenths of 1 percent.
Inventories of wholesalers jumped 1.7 percent, while their sales were off one-tenth of 1 percent. Over all, inventories were 4.1 percent above those of a year ago, while sales increased 6.9 percent over October 1988.

GRAPHIC: Graph of total month-end business inventories divided to total monthly businesses sales from May '88-Oct. '89 (source: Commerce Dept.) (NYT) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NORTHERN TRUST CORP (67%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE, DEPARTMENT OF

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SALES; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RETAIL SALES (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (75%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (73%); LAYOFFS (70%); 



418 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1366 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Making 'Junk Bonds' Respectable

BYLINE: By ANISE C. WALLACE

 BODY:
With more potential sellers in the ''junk bond'' market than buyers, some institutions with large junk portfolios are using a version of financial magic to turn their holdings into marketable securities with investment-grade ratings.
Thomas Spiegel, who resigned as chairman of the Columbia Savings and Loan Association earlier this week, partly because of its huge exposure to junk bonds, is working with bankers at the First Boston Corporation to explore setting up a new company - owned at least in part by Columbia - to repackage the savings association's $3.8 billion of junk bonds for new investors, subject to regulatory approval.
 
Obligations Collateralized
Adapting techniques used in collateralized mortgage obligations, they are issuing collateralized bond obligations, which typically are broken into three tranches, or units, with the lowest risk in the top tranche.
These transactions, while extremely complicated, follow acceptable accounting and investment guidelines, and the diversity of the portfolios is said to more than offset the risk of default for large investors. Not surprisingly, the collateralized obligation is attracting considerable interest from a variety of issuers. Since November 1988, when the first collateralized obligation was offered, almost a dozen companies have repackaged $2 billion of their junk bonds as new high-rated bonds and sold them in private transactions to institutional investors in the United States and Europe, according to the Standard & Poor's Corporation. 
The first tranche, usually about three-quarters of the issue, is senior to the others. The so-called class A investors receive their interest payments before any other creditors, and the yield is typically about two percentage points higher than other A-rated bonds. For instance, a recent $300 million collateralized obligation offered by Duff & Phelps, an investment firm in Chicago, included a senior tranche of $240 million with a 10.05 yield, according to Timothy P. Norman, a vice president of the firm.
Investors in the second and third tranches - known as class B and C holders - receive a much higher interest rate, but their securities have a lower rating. In the Duff & Phelps issue, the $45 million class B tranche yields 13.25 percent and the class C tranche is a zero-coupon bond yielding 15.29 percent. The yield on these units is much higher than the class A tranche because of the risk that a higher-than-expected default rate will wipe out these investors' expected interest payments - but this tranche also has a greater opportunity for appreciation.
The capital structure of the collateralized obligation also includes a group of equity holders. In many cases, the issuing companies put their own capital into the equity and third tranche. In exchange, they will receive whatever interest is left over when all of the bondholders have received their principal and interest. Their goals are to realize cash flow from the sale of the top tranches and to profit from the unusually wide yield spread between the average interest rate of the underlying bonds and the interest rate on the new bonds.
Buyers of the new collateralized obligation bonds are showing faith in the rating agencies, believing that their requirements are strict enough to protect them. And despite the fact that the buyers will not buy junk bonds directly, they seem to be buying the argument that a portfolio of diversified junk bonds is worth the risk.
The suddenly popular strategy has also been used by the First Executive Corporation, another West Coast financial institution that like Columbia invested heavily in junk bonds.
In the last year First Executive, an insurer, transferred more than $700 million of its estimated $6 billion junk bond portfolio to six companies affiliated with it. In exchange, the company received newly issued high-rated bonds issued by the six affiliates. So far, First Executive has not resold the high-grade bonds to new investors. But Mark Schoder, an insurance analyst at Conning & Company in Hartford, said company officials had told him that the transaction was performed largely to make the sale of their junk bond holdings easier.
The move, which was approved by California's insurance regulatory authorities, also allowed First Executive to reduce by $10 million a year the amount it must set aside as reserves against investment losses.
To be sure, the number of savings institutions and insurance companies that have junk bond portfolios large enough to meet the requirements for a collateralized obligation is probably quite small, investment bankers say. Nevertheless, some bankers expect the number of these collateralized obligations to double next year.
An important key to the success of the collateralized obligations is the rating that the agencies like S.& P. and Moody's Investors Service assign the newly issued bonds. Junk bond holders set up an affiliated company that buys a diversified pool of low-rated junk bonds either directly from the original owner or in some cases on the open market.
If the holdings meet S.& P.'s strict requirements concerning diversification, credit ratings and default risk, the new bonds are given an investment grade rating, at least A, because the rating officers determine that the huge amount of interest generated by a diversified portfolio of junk bonds should cover the new bonds' interest payments, even if as much as 35 percent of the junk bonds in some portfolios default, said Kurt Sampson, an S.& P. rating officer.
Based on the agency's studies of previous default patterns, the interest generated from a $200 million portfolio of diversified junk bonds, for example, should provide as much as 140 percent of the collateral necessary to finance $200 million of the new debt, he added.
With an investment-grade rating, the issuers then can sell their new collateralized obligation bonds to buyers like insurance companies and foreign financial institutions. ''This can make a market for institutions with high-yield bonds who want to sell them,'' Mr. Sampson said. However, these new bonds do not have an active secondary market. As a result, the underwriters say, the valuation of the junk bonds used as collateral in the portfolio - a source of sharp controversy in this thinly traded market - is less important because it is unlikely the underlying junk bonds will have to be sold.
''As long as the bonds are performing, that's what you look to to service the debt,'' Mr. Sampson said.
For example, issuers currently are using bonds yielding on average 14 percent to finance the interest payments on securities yielding 10 percent and for a smaller group of securities yielding 13 percent. ''I'd do that all day if I could,'' Mr. Schoder of Conning said.
Obviously, the chief risk for the collateralized obligation equity holders as well as the bondholders is the potential for default by the highly leveraged companies in the junk bond portfolio used as collateral. But if the issuer is astute enough to select bonds of companies that do not default, there will be residual interest left over.
Issuers are finding that Wall Street brokers and money managers are scrambling to help them package these bonds because in an otherwise slow year they have found that collateralized obligations are extremely profitable. Typically, bankers charge an underwriting fee of about 2 percent of the issue, and the investment managers charge an annual investment management fee of about one-half of 1 percent of the portfolio.
 
A Popular Way to Repackage 'Junk'
 
Using a suddenly popular financing technique, ''junk bond'' holders are able to issue new high-grade bonds backed by their low-rated debt. The collateralized bond obligations, as they are known, are privately sold to financial institutions. Following are some of the largest, in millions of dollars.
 
Duff & Phelps C.B.O. Partners ... $300
W.S.G.P. International Diversified Funding ... 250
Chancellor Capital Holdings ... 200
Equitable Captial Diversified Holdings ... 200
Long Run Bond ... 180
Premier Financial ... 104
 
Source: Corporate Financing Week and Underwriters

CORRECTION-DATE: December 22, 1989, Friday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
The Market Place column in Business Day on Dec. 15 about a method for turning ''junk bonds'' into investment-grade securities misstated the status of a regulatory review of the First Executive Corporation's attempt to repackage some bonds. The California Department of Insurance is conducting an examination of the transaction and has not yet reached a decision on it. A related article appears on page D6.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: CSV (NYSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (67%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (54%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (67%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS HIGH YIELD BONDS (94%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (77%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ZERO COUPON SECURITIES (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (72%); CASH FLOW (69%); APPROVALS (69%); 

PERSON: WALLACE, ANISE C



419 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: New Toyota Target: The Midwest

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: FORT SCOTT, Kan.

 BODY:
The Toyota Motor Corporation thought particularly long and hard before opening a dealership last year in this isolated and economically depressed southeastern Kansas town of 9,000 people. For one thing, communities like this and indeed the Midwest as a whole are the last bastion of the Big Three domestic auto makers, far less penetrated than other regions by Toyota and other Japanese manufacturers.
But that is beginning to change. Because of their new manufacturing plants in the United States, the Japanese companies can finally begin to produce enough cars to expand beyond their strongholds on the East and West Coasts and in the Sun Belt.
As a result, Toyota is paying more attention to the Midwest to help produce the sales growth that might help it pass the Chrysler Corporation in the 1990's as the country's third-largest automotive concern, after General Motors and Ford Motor. Chrysler has 10.4 percent of the United States car market this year. Toyota, with 7.1 percent of the market, now stands fifth in the United States, behind Honda of America, which has 7.8 percent. 
As part of its strategy, Toyota, Japan's largest auto maker, is opening dealerships in small communities like Fort Scott. The Nissan Motor Company is also focusing on the nation's midsection, although not as explicitly. And while other Japanese auto makers say they are not specifically aiming at this area, analysts agree that all will probably increase their presence.
At a time when the auto industry as a whole is reporting large sales declines in the United States, mostly because of the weakness of the Big Three, Toyota's sales have been rising and the company has been gaining market share. Far from slowing Toyota, the industry downturn is actually providing opportunities to expand in areas where its vehicles have not been as readily found.
Until recently, the availability of Japanese cars in the United States was restrained by agreements between the auto makers and the Japanese Government that limited exports. Because demand for Japanese products could not be met on the coasts and in the Sun Belt, there was no point in venturing too aggressively into the Midwest. (Japanese exports of trucks are not restrained, but most models remain subject to a 25 percent tariff, making them more costly.) Now, the Japanese car makers can expand in the Midwest because of the growing availability of vehicles produced at their United States assembly plants - in Toyota's case, at a Lexington, Ky., plant and at a Fremont, Calif., plant, where Toyota operates a joint venture with G.M.
Besides increasing availability, producing vehicles in this country also offers a way of reducing any bias against imports. ''Our salesmen tell customers who are reluctant about imports that Toyota cars are being made in the U.S.A.,'' said Joseph Bosco of Mauro Toyota in Kenosha, Wis., which opened last summer. ''We feel it's been a positive.''
 
A Different Market
Midwesterners buy a lower percentage of imported cars than people in other parts of the country. A survey by J. D. Power & Associates found that imported cars accounted for just 22.6 percent of all vehicle registrations in the Midwest in 1988, compared with 51.6 percent in the West, 36.8 percent in the Northeast and 35.3 percent in the South.
Some people attribute the weaker sales of foreign cars in the Midwest to a prejudice against imports, as well as to less availability.
But David Shepherd, whose family has been selling domestic cars and trucks in Fort Scott since 1952, noticed in recent years that ''a few people had started driving to Kansas City to buy Hondas and Toyotas.''
Fort Scott, started as an Army garrison meant to protect Indian tribes from the encroachment of settlers, was established in 1842. While Kansas City and Wichita grew, Fort Scott became increasingly removed from the beaten path. The economy of the area, which relies on tourism, farming and some light industry, has remained below the national average.
 
Sales Pass Expectations
Since Mr. Shepherd opened Shepherd Toyota - the first and only import car franchise in Fort Scott - in August 1988, sales have climbed to about 180 cars and trucks a year, well in excess of the company's initial sales projection of 75. Only about 500 new cars and trucks are registered annually in Fort Scott and surrounding Bourbon County.
Mr. Shepherd said that while resistance to import brands was waning it was still present. ''At my Rotary Club meetings I can sit across from a guy at lunch and say, 'Look, Virgil, people want a good Japanese product and Toyota is the best.' And he'll say, 'Well, I'll never drive one of those blankety-blank things.' ''
As Toyota plans over the next five years to increase its sales in the United States to 1.5 million cars and trucks annually from slightly less than a million now, new Toyota dealerships have opened or are opening in places like Bellevue, Neb.; Spirit Lake, Iowa; Dickinson, N.D.; Monroe, Mich., and Danville, Ill.
''When I was a district manager for Chrysler I used to work these areas of the Midwest,'' said Robert McCurry, now executive vice president for Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A. ''It's 50 miles between towns, and most people won't drive that far to buy cars and get them serviced. That's why we've got to be in more places like Fort Scott.''
Toyota has 1,130 dealers in the nation and plans to add 200 in five years, a third in the Midwest. Nissan, which has about the same number of dealers, has a different strategy: It will not open dealerships in small towns that can sell only a couple of hundred cars a year, said Robert J. Thomas, a Nissan vice president.
''Our plan is to get more sales out of the points we have, and that we can do by adjusting advertising budgets, setting higher objectives and then helping the dealers attain them,'' Mr. Thomas said. Basically, he said, this means providing more cars and trucks to dealers who have not been able to get enough in the past, which Nissan will be able to do because of increased production capacity at its Smyrna, Tenn., plant.
All told, ''we forecast that the Japanese auto makers will add about 1,400 new dealerships in the Midwest by 1992,'' said Chris Cedergren, an automotive analyst for J. D. Power & Associates. ''About 5,000 applications have been made. The dealers are really dying to get these franchises.''
 
Dealership Long Sought
Toyota has taken care to forge a strong relationship with its dealers. Mr. Shepherd, who also sells most G.M., Ford and Chrysler lines at two large showrooms, had been writing to Toyota and other Japanese auto makers requesting a franchise, without success, since the late 1970's. ''One rainy evening in November 1986 a Toyota manager in charge of dealer placements just walked into our showroom without warning,'' he said. ''Then I didn't hear from them again for six months.''
During that period, Mr. Shepherd later learned, Toyota conducted an extensive study of the auto market in his region of southeast Kansas. Because Toyota thinks that profitable dealerships are more effective in selling vehicles, it wanted to be sure there were enough potential customers, taking into account other Toyota dealerships, like one in Joplin, Mo., an hour's drive to the southeast. The auto maker was also concerned about the relatively low average household income in the area - $12,500.
The day his Toyota dealership opened, Mr. Shepherd was surprised to receive a plant with a congratulatory note from Yukiyasu Togo, president of Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A. It was the first gift he had ever received from an auto executive.
Mr. Shepherd's wife, Sharon, noted that spouses of Toyota executives were included and introduced at a dealers' meeting, something she had never seen at meetings with Big Three sales executives.
The sales staff of Shepherd Toyota discovered that the first shoppers were more sophisticated than those visiting his domestic franchises, Mr. Shepherd said, and seemed to know a great deal about Toyota products.

GRAPHIC: Photos of the Toyota Motor Corporation in Fort Scott, Kan.; David Shepherd, who opened a Toyota dealership in Fort Scott, Kansas (NYT/David Hutson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (98%); TM (NYSE) (98%); 7203 (TSE) (98%); FORDP (PAR) (90%); F (NYSE) (90%); 7201 (TSE) (83%); GM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (94%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (96%); KANSAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (98%); FORD MOTOR CO (90%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (83%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; MIDWESTERN STATES (US)

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); SALES FIGURES (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (73%); MARKET SHARE (68%); JOINT VENTURES (61%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P



420 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
No Consensus About Recession

BYLINE: By Leonard Silk

 BODY:
IS the economy on the verge of a recession?
There are many straws in the wind, and even some flying rooftops, that suggest that a recession may have already started.
Housing starts are off, and prices of existing houses are slipping. Car and truck sales are down sharply, and the auto companies, stuck with high inventories, are scheduling layoffs and plant shutdowns well into January. Most leading indicators are declining, including the average workweek in manufacturing, unfilled orders for manufactured goods, and contracts and orders for new plants and equipment. Profits have been receding. 
But most economists still contend that there will be no recession in 1990. The Bush Administration's economists predict that the economy, after adjustment for inflation, will grow by 2.6 percent in 1990. Private business economists are more cautious, but with few exceptions also predict that the economy will avoid a real recession next year. The consensus forecast of the 50 economists surveyed by Blue Chip Economic Indicators is for real growth in 1990 of 1.7 percent. With such slow growth, the private forecasters see the unemployment rate edging up to 5.6 percent, from 5.3 percent this year.
Why, despite the many signs that the economy is weakening, do a large majority of economists foresee no recession? The main reason is that they expect the Federal Reserve to continue easing monetary policy. ''There's little doubt that interest rates will decline substantially in the first half of 1990,'' said Eric Heinemann of Heinemann Economics and Ladenburg, Thalmann & Company. ''Alan Greenspan has no wish to become the scapegoat for a severe economic contraction.''
The monetary authorities have already been supplying more reserves to the banking system, and Stephen H. Axilrod, a former economic adviser to the Fed who is now vice chairman of Nikko Securities, said he thinks the Fed will continue to ease money markets, ''but at a cautious pace.''
''Suppose the Fed were to stay tight,'' Mr. Axilrod said. ''That would almost assuredly precipitate an economic downturn.'' The sharp rise in unemployment would then worsen the electoral prospects of Republicans in midterm Congessional elections and make it virtually impossible to cut the Federal budget deficit, lest the slump and joblessness be made worse.
But if the Fed eases quickly and sharply, he said, that will almost certainly avoid a downturn in 1990, at the cost of higher inflation than the Fed, and possibly even the country, would like. The upshot is likely to be that the Fed and the nation will get both a little more inflation and a little more unemployment than anybody wants. What might brighten this outlook? One hope is that the trade deficit will improve enough to give the economy an extra lift. In the third quarter, the trade deficit shrank by $9.4 billion, to $22.69 billion. But virtually the entire improvement resulted from a weaker dollar, which raised the dollar value of American corporations' foreign earnings.
The danger of too steep a fall in the dollar is that it would prevent the Fed from feeding monetary reserves to the economy fast enough, lest the falling dollar cut off foreign investment here. As things stand, Richard B. Hooey, David W. Rolley and Helen Hotchkiss, economists at Drexel Burnham Lambert, see the fundamentals on the dollar turning negative. But they suggest that dollar rallies could emerge from capital flight to the United States ''if events in Eastern Europe are disappointing.''
Is there a chance that eased tensions in Eastern Europe and improved prospects of arms control arrangements might brighten the economic outlook? The reductions in military expenditures would reduce the United States budget deficit enough to permit a greater relaxation of monetary policy, bringing down interest rates and spurring investment, without intensifying inflationary pressures, the optimists say. The drop in the deficit would increase net national savings and trim American dependence on foreign capital inflow.
That is a hopeful long-term prospect, but it looks premature to expect such an outcome in 1990. In the context of sluggish economic growth, rising unemployment and recessionary dangers, sharp cuts in military outlays would probably be resisted by both the Administration and Congress. Neither the White House nor the Pentagon has developed long-range plans for reducing military expenditures, but improved prospects for peace and economic stability could improve the psychological climate for business and the markets in 1990.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: LTS (NYSE MKT) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: LADENBURG THALMANN FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (66%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CREDIT; FORECASTS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); HOME PRICES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (71%); ELECTIONS (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: SILK, LEONARD ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 



421 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: GATT Critiques U.S. Policy

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GENEVA, Dec. 14

 BODY:
In its first examination of overall United States trade policy, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the world body that oversees trade, said today that its 96 member nations saw the United States as one of the countries most open to imports. But it added that they were troubled by persistent protection for certain parts of the American economy and a trend toward unilateral retaliation in trade disputes. 
Trade ministers agreed last December to begin detailed country-by-country examinations, to give a lift to the four-year round of negotiations to liberalize trade. The United States, the world's biggest importer, volunteered to be among the first three candidates, along with Australia and Morocco.
The report praised the United States for a ''low'' level of trade barriers ''over a broad range of products.'' But it also noted that ''certain sectors of the U.S. economy, such as sugar, dairy and other agricultural products, textiles, clothing, steel, machine tools, automobiles and semi-conductors, enjoy relatively high levels of protection'' and that the number of protected sectors has ''increased over the years.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); AUSTRALIA (79%); MOROCCO (79%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (70%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (93%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TEXTILES (66%); AGRICULTURE (51%); 



422 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 13, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Gain on 'Junk' Sales

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities moved higher yesterday, pushed by renewed selling in the high-yield ''junk bond'' market and a larger-than-expected increase in weekly unemployment claims.
Traders said most of the price move, which amounted to as much as three-eighths of a point for some securities, occurred very early in the session. The prices barely budged after the initial flurry.
''All of the action took place between 8 and 9 this morning,'' a government bond trader said. ''Since 9, we have traded in a one-basis-point range.'' 
Many of those early orders came from London, the traders said.
Reports of deepening problems at the Campeau Corporation led some market participants to speculate that a certain ''flight to quality'' aspect was behind the run-up in Treasury issues yesterday.
 
Worries Over 3 Companies
Kingman Penniman, a senior vice president and high-yield specialist at McCarthy, Crisanti & Maffei, said concerns in London about upcoming debt payments by three troubled high-yield issuers prompted the rise in Treasury prices.
''Southland Corporation, Western Union and Interco all have interest payments that are due on Friday,'' he said. ''Concern about these companies may have prompted a flight to quality.''
Reports that the Toronto-based Campeau may seek protection from its creditors under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code pushed prices of the bonds of Federated Department Stores Inc. and the Allied Stores Corporation down by as much as 2 points each. But even before yesterday's decline, the securities were trading at prices that were normally associated with companies that have filed for bankruptcy protection.
Federated's 16 percent bonds due in 2000 were trading yesterday at 16 cents to 20 cents on the dollar, Mr. Penniman said. Allied's 11.5 percent bonds due in 1997 were offered at about 14 cents on the dollar.
 
Broader Market Stable
For the most part, concern about the troubled credits had little effect on the broader high-yield market.
''Over all, the market was rather stable, in light of the heightened concern about the interest payments,'' Mr. Penniman said. By late yesterday, the prices of most high-yield issues had dipped by a quarter to a half a point.
Aside from concerns about the high-yield issues, Treasury securities also benefited from a rise of 86,000 in initial unemployment claims for the week that ended on Dec. 2.
The claims data, coupled with weak 10-day car sales figures reported by the eight domestic manufacturers on Wednesday, as well as other recent economic reports, ''says that there is a pretty good slowdown going on, and that there is a chance that there may be negative growth for a couple of quarters,'' said Edward J. Sawitz, the president of the Discount Corporation of New York, a primary dealer in Government securities.
''The improvement in prices says to me that the market, after having a number of shifts in psychology in the last few weeks, has swung back to the view that the economy really is slowing down and that the Fed is going to ease policy.'' 2019 Bonds Rise By late in the day, the Treasury's 8 1/8 percent bonds due in 2019 were offered at a price of 103 6/32, up 3/8 of a point, to yield 7.84 percent, its lowest yield level in a month.
Among note issues, the 7 3/4 percent five-year notes were offered at a price of 100 1/4, up 6/32, to yield 7.68 percent. The 7 3/4 percent two-year notes were offered at 100 2/32, up 5/ 32, to yield 7.71 percent.
Meanwhile, the rates on one-year Treasury bills sold at auction yesterday fell to their lowest levels in a year and a half.
The bills were sold at an average rate of 7.14 percent, down from 7.17 percent at the last auction on Nov. 16 and the lowest level since the auction of June 30, 1988.
Interest rates in the secondary Treasury bill market also eased.
Three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.61 percent, down by 6 basis points, or hundredths of a point. Six-month bill rates fell by 5 basis points, to a late-offered rate of 7.38 percent.
 
Secondary Prices Up
The traders in the secondary markets for investment-grade corporate bonds and for tax-exempt municipal bonds said that prices generally moved higher yesterday.
Corporate traders said prices of most issues rose by a quarter of a point or so. Municipal issues improved by a quarter to half a point in brisk trading, the dealers said.
In other developments, the Federal Reserve Board reported that two of the three measures of the nation's money supply fell during the week that ended on Dec. 4. The third and broadest measure, M-3, rose by $4.3 billion.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of one-year Treasury bills:

GRAPHIC: Graphs of 1-year treasury bills; and tax-exempt yields

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (66%); WU (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (66%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (66%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (55%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (55%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: CAMPEAU CORP (70%); ALLIED STORES CORP (66%); MACY'S INC (66%); WESTERN UNION CO (55%); 7-ELEVEN INC (55%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY, DEPARTMENT OF THE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; MONEY SUPPLY (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BONDS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (87%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); MONEY SUPPLY (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); RETAIL SALES (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (69%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (69%); DEPARTMENT STORES (69%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



423 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 14, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Mixed as Gold Slips Abroad but Is Stable in U.S.

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar finished mixed yesterday in dull trading on world currency markets.
Gold prices slipped overseas but appeared to stabilize in the United States. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery settled at $408.30 an ounce, up 20 cents from late Wednesday. The Republic National Bank in New York quoted a late bid for gold at $408.30 an ounce, up 30 cents.
Traders said the market was extremely quiet. ''Everybody is on the sidelines,'' said Stephen Flanagan, a vice president at the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company.
Dealers and investors had been awaiting the release today of United States economic data, including merchandise trade figures for October and producer prices and industrial production data for November.
Dealers have been expecting October's trade deficit to register somewhere between $9 billion and $10 billion. But the Canadian Government's report yesterday showed the nation's first monthly trade deficit in 13 years was cause for some speculation that the American deficit may have benefited.
''A lot of people track the two against each other since Canada is our largest trading partner,'' Mr. Flanagan said.
Others suggested Canada's weak showing might reflect a slowdown in the United States economy. Mr. Chandler said that since Canada's major exports to the United States are autos and auto parts, a decline in United States auto sales might have contributed to Canada's shortfall.
In New York, the dollar finished at 144.15 yen yesterday, up from 144.05 yen late Wednesday. It cost $1.6010 to buy 1, more expensive than Wednesday's $1.6000.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Wednesday, included: 1.7344 West German marks, up from 1.7280; 1.5630 Swiss francs, down from 1.5645; 5.9285 French francs, up from 5.9070; 1.1598 Canadian dollars, unchanged, and 1,292.25 Italian lire, up from 1,289.00.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (93%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); GERMAN MARK (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); 



424 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: President Rejects Plan to Ground Nuclear Airborne Command Post

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 15

 BODY:
President Bush today rejected a recommendation by Defense Secretary Dick Cheney to halt the round-the-clock flights of an airborne command post that could be used to wage a nuclear war, Administration officials said.
Mr. Cheney had endorsed a proposal by the Air Force's Strategic Air Command that the planes be kept on the ground some of the time because of the military's belief that there is a reduced risk of a surprise Soviet nuclear attack.
The Defense Department's recommendation was to have been formally transmitted to the White House today as part of Mr. Cheney's budget request for the fiscal year 1991. But after the White House learned of it in The New York Times this morning, the President rejected it, Administration officials said. 
 
Objection to Its 'Symbolism'
Brent Scowcroft, Mr. Bush's national security adviser, called Mr. Cheney this morning to veto the proposal, objecting to its ''symbolism,'' Administration officials said.
White House officials did not explain why Mr. Bush differed with the judgment of civilian and military officials in the Pentagon that continuous flights were no longer necessary.
But the White House apparently felt that ending the round-the-clock flights might create a public perception that the United States was moving too fast to cut military capabilities.
 
An Assertion of Authority
The President's rapid move to preserve the flights, and his use of Mr. Scowcroft to deliver the message to Secretary Cheney, appeared to represent an assertion of White House authority over Pentagon planning and reinforced Mr. Scowcroft's power as a Presidential adviser.
It is not unknown for the White House to reverse planning recommendations by the Defense Department; earlier this year, for example, it rejected Mr. Cheney's recommendation to kill the Midgetman missile. But the disclosures about the airborne command post made Mr. Bush's decision something of a public rebuke for his Defense Secretary and for the Air Force.
After the telephone conversation with Mr. Scowcroft, Mr. Cheney, talking to reporters, said of the command-post plan, ''I do not propose to go forward with it.'' He made no mention of the White House objection or of his earlier decision to support the Air Force proposal.
 
Unlikeliness of Surprise Attack
Bruce G. Blair, an expert on nuclear command systems at the Brookings Institution, a Washington research center, said the Strategic Air Command ''does not consider surprise attack to be a plausible threat in peacetime, not only because of the improvement in superpower relations but also because the Soviet threat to command aircraft on ground alert has been diminishing since Moscow withdrew missile-firing submarines from our coasts a couple of years ago.''
He also said the Strategic Air Command does not like the continuous flights because they place a great demand on the command's generals, who take turns manning the flights about once a week.
The planes, a military version of the Boeing 707, have been kept aloft on a rotating basis since 1961. Each flight is commanded by a general from the Strategic Air Command, based in Omaha, who would assume control of nuclear forces if nation's top leaders were killed in a nuclear war.
The President's decision was disclosed as the Pentagon submitted its proposed budget for 1991 to the White House. That budget would provide the Defense Department with about $295 billion in spending authority, a cut of about 3 percent in purchasing power compared with the budget for the current fiscal year, after accounting for inflation.
 
Scramble to Cut Programs
Department officials have been scrambling to cut military programs to make them fit within the proposed 1991 budget.
Pentagon officials said Thursday that the department would ask for $4.4 billion in spending for the ''Star Wars'' program to develop an anti-missile shield. That is about $1 billion less than the Pentagon had initially planned to ask for the 1991 budget. But it is still $800 million more than Congress approved for the Pentagon's program in the current fiscal year.
In other proposed cuts, the Pentagon plans to end production of the M-1 tank, the Air Force's Maverick anti-tank missile and the Navy's Harpoon anti-ship missile, Defense Department officials said. In addition, the officials have been developing plans to retire two of the Navy's four battleships.
Defending his budget proposal, which has not been officially disclosed, Mr. Cheney lashed out today at Congressional critics who have complained that spending cuts are being made without a strategy.
''Hogwash - it's simply not true,'' the Defense Secretary said in a speech here to the Princeton Model Congress, a gathering of high school students.
 
Increased Warning Time Cited
Sam Nunn, the Georgia Democrat who heads the Senate Armed Services Committee, has questioned whether the Pentagon's budget plans have adequately taken account of new intelligence estimates about the increased warning time of a Soviet attack. American intelligence experts have concluded that the United States would have one to three months before a full-scale Soviet attack on Europe, instead of the 14 days' warning time that have been assumed by Pentagon planners.
''Sam's a good friend of mine, but I was puzzled,'' Mr. Cheney said in reply to a student's question after his speech. ''He hasn't seen the plan. We are, in fact, taking into account in our long-range planning the changes that are under way in Eastern Europe. Senator Nunn is just wrong.''
Mr. Cheney also complained about members of Congress who have said military resources should be diverted to civilian needs now that Soviet military programs are being cut back. Jim Sasser, a Tennessee Democrat who heads the Senate Budget Committee, stressed the benefits of such a ''peace dividend'' in a hearing this week.
Mr. Cheney said, ''It is irresponsible, it seems to me, for members of Congress to suggest that there is some kind of peace dividend to be cashed in, to buy all the goodies everybody on Capitol Hill can think about buying.''
Military spending cannot be cut ''willy-nilly on the basis of a few members of Congress who have always had projects they wanted to fund,'' the Defense Secretary continued, adding, ''They never supported a strong national defense, and now they are prepared to find ways to cut money out of the defense budget and go spend it on domestic programs.''
Mr. Cheney also said it was ''far too soon'' to conclude that the economic and political changes brought about by President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union were irreversible.

GRAPHIC: Brent Scowcroft, the national security adviser, who advised Defense Secretary Dick Cheney of the President's veto (The New York Times) (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); 

COMPANY: US AIR FORCE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: STRATEGIC AIR COMMAND (SAC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIR FORCES ARMED FORCES (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); VETO (79%); BUDGETS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CHENEY, DICK (SEC); SCOWCROFT, BRENT DICK CHENEY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



425 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Government That Exiled Him Hurries to Mourn Sakharov

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Dec. 15

 BODY:
The Soviet Government, which once exiled Andrei D. Sakharov for being a human rights champion, today embraced him in death. President Mikhail S. Gorbachev mourned the national loss of ''a man of conviction and sincerity.''
The Government moved swiftly to seek a state funeral and marshal Politburo tributes for the tart-tongued humanist who died on Thursday night, only hours after delivering another denunciation of the Communist monopoly of the nation.
But the Sakharov family was reported working on other plans for the burial of the 68-year-old Nobel laureate and deputy to the new national legislature who collapsed from a heart attack and died alone in his study.
The sudden news swept this hard-pressed nation with much of the political and emotional power that Dr. Sakharov wielded in two decades of singular criticism of the Kremlin. 
Many Soviet citizens felt that with this death, President Gorbachev had lost a badly needed, greatly respected moral goad. And Dr. Sakharov's nation had lost another embattled individualist who demonstrated the virtue of resisting the regime at personal risk in the service of others' freedom.
''As long as he was alive, we all felt safe,'' said a woman who stood mourning on the street below his apartment, her face wet with tears and snow.
''Uzhasna,'' she muttered in Russian: terrible.
No less lamentable than the death of the physically frail, spiritually relentless man were the political ironies that ensued before the eyes of Muscovites: guards of the K.G.B., who once kept Dr. Sakharov at bay in his apartment, cleared a path to his front door this afternoon so a quickly assembled Government funeral commission could express sad-faced grief to his widow, Yelena G. Bonner.
Tass, the Government press agency, which once denounced Dr. Sakharov as a traitor deserving his six years of internal exile in Gorky, issued warm posthumous descriptions of him as a civil rights battler and even offered videotapes of his final days for sale to foreign correspondents at $1,500.
Dr. Sakharov's death was the opening story on the evening television news program, ''Vremya.'' The account focused briefly on the moment of silence observed in the Congress rather than on a detailed biography of Dr. Sakharov and his long history of resisting the Kremlin. Izvestia, the Government newspaper, had no mention in its evening edition.
''Zglyad,'' the alternative Friday television program of current events, now the most popular in the nation, devoted considerable time and sympathy to Dr. Sakharov in the recollective style reminiscent of American television's treatment of the assassination of Senator Robert F. Kennedy and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Most poignant was a moment when Dr. Sakharov's widow paused in mid-interview as it dawned on her what she was discussing.
''My God,'' she said, her eyes welling with tears. ''My God.'''
 
'A Terrible Mistake'
''They did all they could to kill him,'' lamented Boris Fayants, one of the many ordinary Soviet citizens who seemed clearly to feel that Soviet political life, with its fresh seeds of hope born when President Gorbachev ended Dr. Sakharov's exile, had been drastically altered by the death.
''For us, it was wonderful to see him elected to the Congress, but for him it was a terrible mistake,'' Mr. Fayants, a mathematician, said, grasping at his own heart.
Mr. Gorbachev said, ''This is a big loss,'' choosing to comment not from the Congress rostrum but in a corridor outside in a brief interview with reporters. ''This was not some sort of a political intriguer, but a person who had his own ideas, his own convictions, which he expressed openly and directly.''
The death of Dr. Sakharov, a physicist who evolved from designing the Soviet hydrogen bomb to leading the nation's antiwar movement, deprives the Soviet leader of a badly needed force for credibility.
 
Gorbachev Gained Credit
Mr. Gorbachev was obviously peeved at times to see Dr. Sakharov arise regularly from his sixth-row congressional seat to deliver sharp-toned blasts at Gorbachev programs. But the President seemed far more mindful of the fact that he gained credit for having invited such political change and goading in the first place.
It was credit from the outside world more than the members of the Communist majority in Congress. After Dr. Sakharov's death, they all had to stand for a moment of silence in his memory this morning.
Sakharov associates complained that the funeral commission included prominent party officials who did nothing to help him a decade ago when the Government ostracized him for refusing to cease his criticism of the Soviet combat role in Afghanistan, and he was exiled to Gorky.
The body of the slender, stoop-shouldered physicist was discovered by his wife. He had returned to their eighth-foor apartment near the center of the city after another long day of congressional debate and caucusing with the opposition group he helped to found.
 
Green Sackcloth
Needing to work further on a congressional speech on the economic crisis, Dr. Sakharov had gone down to his study, a separate apartment on the seventh floor.
''He was in his undershirt, probably getting undressed, and he fell to the floor with a heart attack,'' said a friend, the poet Vladimir Kornilov.
Dr. Sakharov's body, wrapped in a green sackcloth and strapped to a stretcher, was carried down to a waiting ambulance at 1:30 this afternoon. Wet, thick snow fell on the city. ''There is no one in the Congress to take up his leadership,'' said Igor Belkov, a passer-by watching the scene. ''He was the real leader in the real perestroika.''
In Congress, Dr. Sakharov's admirers had the same thought. Anatoly A. Sobchak, normally a steely eyed analyst of things politic, was teary-eyed in conceding the enormous loss of Dr. Sakharov.
 
'One on One'
''This was a man whose uncompromising fight in the period of stagnation - one on one against the whole Government apparatus, beaten down, betrayed - was maintained with all his strength so that this day, today, would come,'' he said.
Funeral plans had not been announced by tonight. The Government's offer to hold a large-scale ceremony at the Academy of Sciences reportedly was rejected by the family in favor of a less officious memorial on Monday at a sport arena more accessible to the public. Miss Bonner reportedly preferred that burial be in her family plot at Vostryakovskoye Cemetery at the southwestern edge of the city. President Gorbachev gave no clear answer as to whether he will be at the funeral.
 
Opposition Loses Leader
Dr. Sakharov died in the midst of a campaign to demonstrate to the nation the value of opposition voices in the one-party legislature. The stilling of his own special voice now makes this point most dramatically, but raises questions of how the nebulous early opposition caucus he helped found, the Interregional Group, will carry on without him.
Both the opposition and Mr. Gorbachev seemed to benefit from Dr. Sakharov's treks to the rostrum. The last public exchange of the two men on Tuesday was typical. Legislators groaned as Dr. Sakharov came up to speak. Mr. Gorbachev had been busy brushing aside other speakers, but not Andrei Dmitrivich.
In one sentence, squinting and craggy-voiced, Dr. Sakharov ripped into the Government's failure to move toward its promises on land reform. In the next, he turned toward Mr. Gorbachev wielding a sheaf of telegrams like a fiery sword, speaking for citizens demanding that Congress repeal the Communist Party's power monopoly.
''That's all,'' Mr. Gorbachev snapped, growing short with the man he freed from exile. Dr. Sakharov retreated from the uncertain new legislature for the last time looking unsurprised and unsatisfied, as if he harbored every intent of complaining another day.

GRAPHIC: Flowers adorning the seat of Andrei D. Sakharov in the Soviet national legislature. The Nobel laureate died of a heart attack on Thursday (Associated Press) (pg. 1); members of the Congress of Peoples Deputies remembering Andrei D. Sakharov yesterday (Reuters); the body of the human rights champion being removed from his apartment amid a throng of mourners (Associated Press) (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (84%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (76%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (74%); ASSASSINATION (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); NOBEL PRIZES (55%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); 

PERSON: SAKHAROV, ANDREI D; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; CLINES, FRANCIS X MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); 



426 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International 3-12
 
The East German exodus to the West has continued unabated. While 10 million East Germans have visited West Germany and returned home, each day about 2,000 have chosen to settle. 1
 
Warsaw's relations with East Berlin and Bonn have come under economic and political strain from the side effects of the revolution that has swept East Germany since October. 8
 
Andrei Sakharov's death was grieved by the Government that once exiled him for speaking out on human rights. The Kremlin moved quickly to seek a state funeral, but his family reportedly has other burial plans. 1
 
Carnations and candles at Sakharov's doorstep 10
 
A possibile settlement in Afghanistan hinges on whether Moscow would exclude President Najibullah. But White House officials are divided over how to interpret the signals given by President Gorbachev. 3
 
Moscow's five-year economic plan fails to include fundamental structural changes that would reorient the the Soviet Union to a free market system, the Secretary of State said. 10
 
East's turn to West puts Comecon in peril 35
 
The European Community has a role in reshaping Europe, French officials say. President Francois Mitterrand is expected to voice concerns about NATO's presumed predominance when he meets President Bush. 9 
 
The Czech-West German border should be open, said Prague's Defense Minister. He also vowed to shorten compulsory military service and reduce the active military reserves by 90,000. 9
 
In Bulgaria, what price democracy? As boisterous crowds rally in Sofia, the rattled Communist Party is trying to keep pace with demands, and both sides are testing the limits of dissent. 9
 
A Colombian drug baron was killed along with his son and 15 bodyguards in a shootout with Colombian security forces in the north coast city of Cartegena. 1
 
Man in the News: Patricio Aylwin, President-elect of Chile, has closed the breach with his old adversaries on the left while extending a reassuring hand to those on the right. 5
 
A Chinese dissident may flee China with his wife soon. The fate of Fang Lizhi, who is hiding in the American Embassy in Beijing, was brought up with the Chinese Government by the national security advisor, Brent Scowcroft. 7
 
Beijing's plan for Hong Kong dims hopes for a democracy 6
 
Sectarian killings in India's Punjab have scarred the prosperous Sikh state. Last week, Prime Minister V.RP. Singh promised to heal the ''heavy, bleeding hearts.'' 6
 
Soviets oppose repeal of U.N.
Zionism resolution 7
 
Five jailed South Africans are free after the country's highest court reversed their treason convictions. The five anti-apartheid campaigners were convicted last year after the longest political trial in memory. 6
 
Mercenaries quit Indian Ocean isles 6
 
National 13-14, 28
 
A plan to ground an airborne fleet was rejected by President Bush. Defense Secretary Dick Cheney had proposed halting the round-the-clock flights of an airborne command post that could be used to wage nuclear war. 1
 
U.S. troops fired on drug smugglers for the first time along the nation's Southwest border. A Marine Corps contingent of about 50 men have been assisting the Border Patrol since Thanksgiving. 1
 
Script for Bush's drug deal yields a comedy 12
 
A medal for a Jewish war veteran has been rejected by the Army, which said there was evidence he did not perform the heroic actions during World War II that he claimed. 1
 
Two states join Vermont suit on age discrimination 14
 
Immigration chief considers ban on asylum in 3 southern cities 28
 
California is pressing auto makers and fuel companies to cooperate with plans to clean up polluted air over Los Angeles and other cities by designing low-polluting cars for the future. 13
 
The New Orleans District Attorney, Harry Connick, was indicted by a Federal grand jury for illegally helping a well-known Louisiana bookmaker and his gambling business. 14
 
Jet safe in Alaska after flying through volcanic ash 13
 
Scarlett and Rhett take Atlanta again 13
 
Savings incentive plan studied 35
 
Trade gap is widest in 10 months 35
 
G.M. to buy half of Saab car unit 35
 
Regional 29-32
 
Staten Island could secede from New York City, but only after a long process, under a measure approved by Governor Mario Cuomo. 1
 
An influx of Soviet Jews to New York has overwhelmed an already overcrowded housing market and strained the resources of resettlement agencies. 29
 
Fare hikes for subways and buses were approved by the New York Transit Authority, over the shouts of protesters. 29
 
New York State's top drug-treatment official resigns 29
 
Judge allows tests of the police for drug use 30
 
Ad executive killed in East Village was attacked twice 31
 
The trees for a New York Christmas are sold by hardy souls who travel from around the world to make a few dollars on the city's frigid streets. 29
 
New Jersey schools's fight over tuition goes to court 30
 
SoHo gift to Wall St.: A 3 1/2-ton bronze bull 31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); CHINA (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); FRANCE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); BULGARIA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); INDIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); INDIAN OCEAN (68%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (85%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (73%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (87%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (83%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (63%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (60%); 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 



427 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East;
Bush and Mitterrand Meet Today on Europe's Role

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Dec. 15

 BODY:
Reflecting France's traditional distrust of NATO, President Francois Mitterrand is expected to emphasize the European Community's claim to a predominant role in reshaping Europe when he meets President Bush on the Caribbean island of St. Martin on Saturday.
French officials said that Mr. Mitterrand views a continued United States presence in Europe as a useful counterweight to a reunified Germany, but that he does not believe that Western Europe should speak principally through the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
NATO Foreign Ministers meeting in Brussels this week endorsed a United States proposal that the 16-nation alliance assume a more active political role in preparing for what Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d has called ''the new Europe and the new Atlanticism.''
In a major policy statement in Berlin last Tuesday that served as a backdrop for debate at the NATO meeting, Mr. Baker also called on the United States and the European Community to establish new institutional and consultative links in face of turbulent change in Eastern Europe. 
 
Independent Nuclear Force
While France is a member of NATO, it does not take part in the alliance's joint military command and has traditionally insisted on the independence of its nuclear forces. It has also long viewed NATO as something of an instrument of United States policy.
Le Monde today quoted the French Foreign Minister, Roland Dumas, as saying it was premature to create ''a new architecture'' for Europe as suggested by Mr. Baker. He also expressed distrust of NATO's tendency ''to take care of everything in every area,'' the paper said.
''Europe within the alliance, but also Europe as an independent and responsible entity should reaffirm its political and security roles on the East-West scene,'' Mr. Dumas was quoted as remarking after the NATO session in Brussels.
Although President Mitterrand is expected to echo France's concerns when he meets Mr. Bush on Saturday, he is also well placed to speak for Western Europe as a whole since, over the six months ending Dec. 31, he has held the rotating post of President of the 12-nation European Community.
 
An Impromptu Meeting
In this capacity, he called an impromptu summit meeting of community leaders in Paris on Nov. 18 to organize a regional response to events in Eastern Europe. He also presided over a regular twice-a-year summit meeting in Strasbourg last week, where community leaders spelled out the conditions under which German reunification would be acceptable.
Further, after the Soviet-American summit meeting off Malta this month, Mr. Mitterrand traveled to Kiev for talks with President Mikhail S. Gorbachev. His meeting with Mr. Bush, scheduled a month ago, also fits into his strategy of insuring that the European Community is not forgotten in the new Soviet-American dialogue.
French and American officials said Mr. Mitterrand and Mr. Bush were in broad agreement on many aspects of the Eastern European challenge, above all on the need for German reunification to take place gradually in the context of existing East-West accords and recognized borders.
''I can only observe that, regarding the issue of German reunification, Mr. Baker spoke in terms very close, if not identical, to the view expressed in Strasbourg last Saturday,'' Hubert Vedrine, Mr. Mitterrand's spokesman, said. This week, NATO also endorsed the conditions laid down by the community.
 
Strengthening Relationship
French and American officials said that, having known each other since the early 1980's, the two Presidents have a good personal relationship, and that it has been strengthened by frequent meetings and telephone conversations since Mr. Bush became President.
''It's clear that Bush and Mitterrand prize their ability to talk to each other about their views and concerns,'' an American official said, ''and this has not always been the case with French and American Presidents.''
Yet with Britain dragging its feet on European integration and West Germany increasingly distracted by events in East Germany, political experts here said Mr. Mitterrand now believes France has the primary responsibility for keeping the community on the fast track toward economic union.
The French leader has made no secret of his view that a strong European Community offers the best opportunity of insuring that West Germany - or a united Germany - remain committed to the values of an integrated Europe. France has even suggested informally that the community assume a security role.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (93%); BELGIUM (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); UKRAINE (79%); MALTA (78%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); SAINT MARTIN (73%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (57%); ALSACE, FRANCE (57%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; FRANCE

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN; MITTERRAND, FRANCOIS (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



428 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: Baker Says Gorbachev's Economic Plan Lacks Basic Changes

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Dec. 15

 BODY:
Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d expressed some disappointment today with President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's new five-year plan for the Soviet economy, saying it failed to include the kind of structural changes that would begin to re-orient the Soviet Union to a more productive free-market system.
The Secretary of State chose his words carefully when discussing Mr. Gorbachev's latest economic blueprint, outlined in Moscow on Wednesday, but he left no doubt that the Bush Administration viewed it as a somewhat shortsighted, watered-down program that would only worsen Soviet economic troubles by retaining control of production and distribution in the hands of central planners.
Mr. Baker gave his assessment at a news conference after a two-day NATO foreign ministers' meeting. In their final communique, the 16 NATO ministers gave a general endorsement to many of Mr. Baker's recent suggestions for transforming the alliance into more of a political body that could help manage change in Europe as the Soviet threat diminishes. 
The ministers also reached agreement on an approach to the ''Open Skies'' negotiations, which will begin with the Warsaw Pact in Ottawa in February. In a speech on May 12, President Bush proposed that NATO pursue an Open Skies arrangement with the Eastern bloc, which would allow reconnaissance flights over each other's military installations.
 
Doubts About Gorbachev
Mr. Gorbachev's latest economic moves were also discussed among the 16 NATO ministers. Several officials said the seeming inadequacy of Mr. Gorbachev's proposals, combined with the appearance that he has lost control over the process of change he initiated in Eastern Europe, had set off another of the periodic waves of pessimism in the West about his prospects. The mood was graphically captured on the cover of this week's British-based The Economist magazine, which showed Mr. Gorbachev standing alone atop Lenin's tomb. Beneath him was the headline, ''Yesterday's Man?''
Speaking of the discussions among the NATO ministers, a senior State Department official said: ''While everyone is very pleased and excited about the reform process in Eastern Europe, and they obviously recognize the role that Gorbachev has played in at least permitting that process to proceed, one should go into 1990 with one's eyes opened about the difficulties the Soviet Union still faces and the fact that their leadership has, in the view of many NATO members, not come to grips with some of the key economic decisions they must make.''
Just over a week after President Bush offered Mr. Gorbachev a package of economic incentives and technical advice to help Moscow establish a system of real prices, a convertible currency and access to international financial institutions, Prime Minister Nikolai I. Ryzhkov presented to the Congress of Deputies in Moscow the leadership's blueprint for the next five-year plan, the standard Soviet framework for economic planning. The plan retained most of the traditional limits on privately owned businesses and property, and took virtually no steps toward phasing out subsidies, establishing market-base real prices or a convertible currency.
Ask for his reaction to the plan, Mr. Baker, reading from notes, said: ''I don't think it is particularly useful for us to be overly critical, but speaking as a former Secretary of the Treasury, I think that what has happened is that political concerns have tended to dominate economic considerations. Now, that happens from time to time, not just to closed economies but free-market economies as well, because you can only reform to the extent that you have the political support necessary to accomplish reform.
 
Emphasis on Short Term Seen
''What appears to me has happened,'' Mr. Baker added, ''is that there is going to be a short-term reliance on the planned economcy to produce goods to the possible detriment of the long-term needs to move toward an increasing free market economy.''
On his first trip to Moscow in May, Mr. Baker urged Mr. Gorbachev to make the hard choices now - both because they were economically correct and because the Soviet leader could still blame his predecessors for the inflation and unemployment that would necessarily accompany such radical steps.
In their final communique, the NATO ministers echoed Mr. Bush's four-point, step-by-step framework for German unification and endorsed, in very general terms, the ideas outlined by Mr. Baker in his Berlin speech on Tuesday calling for a ''new architecture'' for the new era in Europe. No specific measures, however, were adopted by NATO to translate that architecture into any new concrete structures.
The mood among European diplomats at the NATO conference seemed to be that it is satisfying to know that the United States plans to continue playing a role in Europe - which will both help counterbalance any unified Germany and maintain a general balance of power with the East - but that given the pace of change now taking place today on the Continent, trying to carry out any ''new architecture'' now would be like trying to build a house in the middle of an earthquake.
Nevertheless, drawing from Mr. Baker's speech, the final communique declared that NATO ''will increasingly be called upon to carry out its political function.''
 
New Ideas on 'Open Skies'
As for the NATO ministers' agreement on how to approach the ''Open Skies'' negotiations, it contained several interesting elements.
For instance, each NATO and Warsaw Pact country will be assigned a quarterly ''quota'' of overflights they will have to allow over their territory, depending on their geographical size. The country conducting an observation flight could use only ''unarmed, fixed-wing civilian or miitary aircraft'' that would also have enough room to carry an ''observer'' from the country being overflown, NATO proposed.
The aircraft making the reconnaissance flight could carry a variety of cameras and sensors, with the exception of ''devices used for the collection and recording of signals intelligence.'' That is, equipment that could intercept phone calls or radio messages.
The observer monitors from the host country who would go along on each flight ''would insure that the aircraft is operated in accordance with the flight plan and would monitor operation of the sensors,'' NATO said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



429 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Scarlett and Rhett Take Atlanta Again

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Dec. 15

 BODY:
Just as it did 50 years ago, this city gave a brazen and bosomy hug this week to the 50th anniversary of the premiere of ''Gone With the Wind,'' a weeklong promotional frenzy that included a costume ball, a parade, tours of antebellum homes, star-gazing and memorabilia-hawking.
The chief sponsor was none other than Atlanta's own enfant terrible of the entertainment business, Ted Turner, whose company, Turner Entertainment Company, owns the rights to the film classic.
Wearing a cream-colored frock coat and slacks, his fingers curled around a stiletto-thin cigar, Mr. Turner addressed the more than 1,500 period-costumed guests Thursday night at a re-enactment of the 1939 ball that accompanied the premiere. He said that if he were an alien from another planet the film would be his textbook and primer in understanding human behavior. 
''Not what happened in Tiananmen Square or the dropping of the Iron Curtain, but 'Gone With the Wind,' '' Mr. Turner said.
 
The Stuff of Scholarship
If popularity is the standard, Mr. Turner's hyperbolic paean seemed justified. The movie has earned the equivalent of $800 million in inflation-adjusted dollars and Margaret Mitchell's book has sold over 25 million copies in 27 languages.
Discussion of the film's impact on the public is long past the romance and chivalry; it has entered the realm of scholarly debates on historiography and sociology.
It is perhaps the depiction of the South before and after the Civil War and its perpetuating and burnishing of the mythic genteel, aristocratic plantation South that accounts for much of the movie's endurance, said Charles Wilson, a professor of history at the University of Mississippi and co-editor of the Encyclopedia of Southern Culture.
But ''Gone With the Wind'' has proved over time to be a wonderfully adaptive film, Professor Wilson said, which not only can glorify a part of the Old South but can also symbolize the New South in the indomitability, toughness and adaptability of Scarlett O'Hara.
Amid all the discussion, he said, it is clear that the book and the 1939 film premiere here put Atlanta on the map culturally.
 
Atlanta as South's Capital
''There has long been an argument about whether there was a cultural capital of the South, and this book and, to a greater extent, the film as much as anything validated Atlanta's claim to that title nationally and more importantly, regionally,'' Mr. Wilson said. ''Virginia had been viewed as the dominant state since colonial times, but ''Gone with the Wind,' coming in the midst of a Southern literary renaissance, shifted the center of the story of the lost cause to Georgia and Atlanta.''
While the recreation of the 1939 parade today drew only a few hundred spectators, the scene at the Fabulous Fox Theater where the ''re-premiere'' was held duplicated the 1939 scene, complete with spotlights raking the sky, limousines and mock columns flanking the marquee.
Atlanta has a reputation for promoting itself at the drop of a hat, and Mr. Turner's celebration triggered a reflexive self-indulgence.
From beginning to end, everybody seemed ready to join the party, including 10 of the surviving actors in the film who returned here for a reunion.
They included Butterfly McQueen (Prissy), Ann Rutherford (Careen O'Hara), Evelyn Keyes (Suellen O'Hara), Fred Crane (Brent Tarleton) and Rand Brooks (Charles Hamilton, Scarlett's first husband). Five others played children in the film.
 
Where They Were Then
It was a time for trivia questions and trading of memorabilia for the thousands of devoted fans who came to Atlanta. ''I was born the same week the film opened,'' said Bill Quigley of New Rochelle, N.Y., as the performers reminisced on a stage at Rich's department store. ''I've seen the film 24 times and read the book five times, and I just had to be here.''
Masako Nomura recalled first reading the book and seeing the film 20 years ago while she was a university student in Tokyo. ''I was fascinated by Scarlett's personality,'' Mrs. Nomura said. ''She's a strong personality and my ideal. She's not like women were in my country.''
Fans were given rare insights into the filming to add to the trove of trivia it has already generated. Cammie King Conlon, who portrayed the doomed Bonnie Blue Butler, Scarlett and Rhett Butler's child, told listeners that a 35-year-old man had been her double in the scene in which she fell from her pony.
And Greg Geiss, as the newborn Bonnie Blue Butler, when he was barely seven months old, said he was paid $95 for the role and still has the contract.
 
'We All Had Ancestors . . .'
The antebellum ball in the Georgia International Convention and Trade Center in College Park, at $100 a ticket, was not quite the exclusive affair that the Junior League-sponsored ball here was in 1939, but it was no less a party.
For Colquitt Carter, who was president of the Junior League in 1939, the festivities brought back the excitement of 1939.
''It was so personal to everyone because we all had ancestors who had lived through that time,'' she said.
Six Southern governors attended the 1939 premiere and ball, recalled Louise Allen, the wife of former Mayor Ivan Allen of Atlanta, and ''suddenly it was the greatest thing that had happened to Atlanta up to that time.''
 
'It Is an Affront to Us'
Not everyone was happy. Atlanta's black population stayed away from the 1939 festivities, partly because of anger at the film's stereotypical depiction of blacks.
But the choir of Atlanta's Ebenezer Baptist Church, in slave garb, sang at that ball. Edgar Goff, the grandnephew of Hattie McDaniel, who won an Academy Award for best supporting actress for her role of Mammy, said his great-aunt and other black actors could not find adequate hotel accommodations in 1939 Atlanta and did not attend the premiere.
There were many blacks at this celebration, but the acceptance was not universal. The current Ebenezer choir declined Mr. Turner's invitation to recreate the 1939 performance, said Rev. Joseph Roberts Jr., pastor of the church.
''It's a great old classic,'' he said, ''but it is an affront to us, and I just felt that with what has happened in the civil rights movement and especially what has emanated from this church under Martin Luther King Jr., people have a different status now.''
 
Atlanta in the 20th Century
Perhaps as an indication of the film's adaptability to a new South, Mayor Andrew Young, who is black, made a videotaped welcome to the ball and celebration that depicted the city's progress and growth as the work of the ''spiritual heirs of Scarlett and Rhett and those of Mammy, Prissy and freedmen.''
That was fine with Mr. Goff, a retired Los Angeles architect who said the film was as much about his great-aunt -''the archmother and global mammy'' - as about Scarlett O'Hara.
''Hattie couldn't be here back then,'' he said, ''but I thought someone from the family ought to be here this time.''

GRAPHIC: Dancers at the 50th anniversary ball for the premiere of ''Gone With the Wind'' Thursday night in Atlanta. (The New York Times/Alan S. Weiner); Robert Noll and Emily Schapmann, winners of the Rhett Butler and Scarlett O'Hara look-alike contest at the ''Gone With the Wind'' ball. (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: GONE WITH THE WIND (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TURNER ENTERTAINMENT CO (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ATLANTA (GA)

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); FILM (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); HISTORY (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); FILM SCHOOLS (75%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (74%); LITERATURE (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (70%); BOOK SALES (68%); SOCIOLOGY (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD TED TURNER (92%); 



430 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Books of the Times;
Slaves' Historian Changes His Mind

BYLINE: By Herbert Mitgang

 BODY:

Without Consent or Contract
The Rise and Fall of American Slavery
By Robert William Fogel
539 pages. W. W. Norton. $22.50.
It isn't often that a historian reverses himself, but that, in effect, is what Robert William Fogel has done in ''Without Consent or Contract: The Rise and Fall of American Slavery.'' His new book is a much more humane work than his cold-blooded and controversial ''Time on the Cross: The Economics of American Slavery,'' which he wrote 15 years ago with Stanley L. Engerman, a fellow cliometrician. 
Cliometricians (after Clio, the muse of history) are scientifically oriented historians who maintain that statistical analysis, based upon various records rather than human testimony, can take the guesswork out of the past. By contrast, traditional historians appreciate any kind of new evidence but consider modern techniques as merely tools; they believe that statistics alone cannot rebuild the complex house of history.
Mr. Fogel, director of the Center for Population Economics at the University of Chicago, doesn't quite give up the ideas he advanced in ''Time on the Cross'' but instead takes a moral stand against slavery for the first time. In ''Time on the Cross,'' he strongly disputed previous works in the field, like ''The Peculiar Institution: Slavery in the Antebellum South'' by Kenneth M. Stampp (Knopf, 1956). Mr. Fogel left the impression that, judged by his extrapolation from plantation and other old records, slavery wasn't all that bad.
''Time on the Cross'' maintained that the slave system in the South yielded a higher rate of economic growth; that slave plantations were more efficient than free farms; that food, clothing, shelter and health care were far better than traditional historians had imagined; that the average income of a prime field hand in the South was 15 percent greater than the income he would have earned as a free agricultural worker in the North, and even that slaves weren't really whipped too often because punishment would have cut down their productivity. This view largely overlooked the auction of men and women like chattels, the breakup of families, the fundamental human desire to be free and the cruel punishment -what Lincoln, in his Second Inaugural Address, called ''every drop of blood drawn with the lash.''
Now, in the aptly titled ''Without Consent or Contract,'' Mr. Fogel admits that he originally did not emphasize the horrors and human cost of slavery. At first, he notes: ''I had not thought very deeply about the substance of the moral issues because they seemed so obvious. The brutalities of the slave trade, slave breeding, and the extremely hard conditions of labor spoke for themselves.''
In ''Without Consent or Contract,'' Mr. Fogel says his beliefs about slavery have been continually changing for more than a quarter of a century. He constructs what he calls a modern indictment of slavery that rests on four counts, all of which seem perfectly obvious ideas that were advanced by the abolitionists a century and a half ago. Nevertheless, Mr. Fogel leaves no doubt that, personally, he is opposed to the idea of slavery.
He writes: ''The first, and overarching, count in the new indictment is that slavery permitted one group of people to exercise unrestrained personal domination over another group of people.'' His second count, which he also calls new, is that slavery meant ''denial of economic opportunity.'' The third count is ''denial of citizenship,'' and the fourth count he calls ''denial of cultural self-identification.''
Taking a larger view, Mr. Fogel concludes that the Civil War achieved more than just inflated wealth for Northern capitalists and partial freedom for blacks. Giving the war a meaning for the present time, he writes: ''It preserved and reinforced conditions favorable to a continued struggle for the democratic rights of the lower classes, black and white alike, and for the improvement of their economic condition, not only in America but everywhere else in the world.''
''Without Consent or Contract'' amounts to a partial mea culpa. For this Mr. Fogel's book deserves attention because it adds to the debate about the nature of slavery instead of fueling it anew. But he has not conceded that cliometric conclusions can be as speculative as any economic interpretation of men and events. In rather elusive language that does not help his cause, he continues to justify some of his previous notions. What the cliometricians fail to recognize is that there is no heartbeat inside a computer.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Robert William Foget (Jonathan Perloe)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WITHOUT CONSENT OR CONTRACT (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS SLAVERY (91%); HISTORY (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); STATISTICAL METHOD (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); EVIDENCE (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); FARM LABOR (65%); AGRICULTURE (62%); 

PERSON: MITGANG, HERBERT; FOGEL, ROBERT WILLIAM



431 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Baker's First Draft for Europe

 BODY:
If the Bush Administration doesn't think hard and convincingly now about America's place in the Europe emerging from the current earthquakes, Washington will lose the constructive role it has played for two generations.
Recognizing the need, Secretary of State Baker has now taken a useful and welcome first step. In West Berlin on Tuesday he sketched out ''a new architecture'' built on the ''old foundations'' of NATO, the European Community and the European Security Conference. 
Mr. Baker correctly gave pride of place to NATO, which serves as a cornerstone of Western security and as America's main bridge to Europe. As the Soviet withdrawal from Eastern Europe continues, Washington will face growing doubts about the alliance.
Americans will wonder why a large-scale U.S. troop presence is still needed. Europeans will ask whether NATO is simply a cold war relic. As such sentiments swell, Washington will have to do much more than simply reduce its 300,000 troops. It will have to redefine NATO's role.
Mr. Baker started doing just that in Berlin. He mentioned expanding alliance capabilities to monitor arms control pacts. That's constructive, and the idea could easily be broadened to include cooperative verification arrangements with the Warsaw Pact. He spoke of enhanced consultations on regional conflicts. That suggestion never got anywhere before, but it's worth talking about again. He also spoke vaguely but suggestively about turning the alliance into more of a political organization to improve links to the East.
The secretary also addressed trans-Atlantic economic ties. Recognizing that economic frictions may abrade these connections, he called for new forms of consultation between the U.S. and the European Community. For as Western Europe moves toward economic integration, it is also creating openings to Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. Mr. Baker reminded the Community to find a place for the U.S. as well.
But the emerging Europe is more than military blocs and economic markets. It is becoming whole. Mr. Baker understands that. He joined his allies in welcoming Moscow's call for a summit meeting next year of the 35-member Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe.
This group's mandate already covers the appropriate all-European agenda. The elements include peaceful resolution of disputes, protection of human and minority rights, guarantees of existing borders and freer flows of people and goods.
Secretary Baker does not pretend that his blueprint is more than a draft. But he skillfully blends old and new. Europeans welcome the effort, and the beginning of the most important alliance conversation in 40 years. The new architecture has a new architect.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN SECURITY SYSTEMS (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EDITORIALS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLD WAR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); POLITICS (64%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC)



432 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: Letter: On Medicare;
Catastrophic Care Is a Community Task

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''The Limits of Medicare'' (editorial, Nov. 27) once again asserts that ''the families paying the surtax [for Medicare catastrophe insurance] rebelled . . . they resented subsidizing insurance for the poor and paying for benefits that many already received from former employers.'' Though stated as fact, that assertion is only theory. It is one of the many possible explanations for resentment. 
Some of us, not yet Medicare beneficiaries, opposed the financing mechanism, believing that while a social insurance program such as Medicare should involve transfers to assist low-income persons, these transfers or subsidies should be paid for by affluent individuals of all ages. We believe in principles of community and in acts of sharing. Our definition of ''community'' is broader than that utilized in the Medicare catastrophic legislation; we think of Americans regardless of age as members of the American community; the law defined community in terms of age (only the old would be subject to the surtax). The unwillingness of the general population to share in the costs of the catastrophic program represented an implicit redefinition of the term ''community'' that many Americans of all ages found a troubling development.
The young charge the elderly, who presumably were unwilling to pay for the poor, with being selfish. It could as easily be asserted that it is the young who are selfish: Have they supported legislation requiring that they help pay for the costs of catastrophic care of the less affluent (including young disabled)?
Congress has not seen fit to enact a tax that would ask all of us, of all ages, to finance universal health care. Surely the prospects for legislation that addresses financing issues in more comprehensive fashion are not enhanced by ascribing base motives to those who advocated restructuring catastrophic insurance because they believe its flawed financing provisions set an undesirable and dangerous precedent.
 
RASHI FEIN
 Boston, Nov. 27, 1989
 
The writer is professor of medical economics, Harvard Medical School.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; TAXATION; AGED; MEDICARE LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); WRITERS (73%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); HEALTH CARE (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); CATASTROPHE REINSURANCE (57%); 

PERSON: FEIN, RASHI



433 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Administration Supports Family Planning

 BODY:
To the Editor:
To paraphrase my fellow Missourian Mark Twain, assertions of the demise of United States support for family planning in developing countries are highly exaggerated and without foundation. Many opinion leaders, including you, have concluded that because the Bush Administration opposes abortion and coercive sterilization, it opposes family planning (''Abortion and the Real George Bush,'' editorial, Oct. 23; ''How to Embarrass Americans,'' A. M. Rosenthal column, Oct. 24). The Bush Administration is strongly committed to family planning assistance to developing countries. The United States is the world's leading source of such aid, providing more than 40 percent of donor funds for international population programs. 
Since 1981, the United States has obligated $2.3 billion for population activities through the Agency for International Development. In 1989 alone, A.I.D. allocated $250 million for voluntary family planning in 95 developing countries, including 45 in sub-Saharan Africa.
Nor does the bulk of this go to natural methods. Consider the following:
* A.I.D. is the source of 75 percent of donor-provided contraceptives for the developing world. Since 1968 this has included 4.5 billion condoms, 630 million cycles of oral contraceptives and 37.5 million intrauterine devices. Two-thirds of the condoms, three-fourths of the IUD's and nearly half the oral contraceptives have been provided since 1981.
* A.I.D. has trained some 150,000 family planning service providers in 120 countries - two-thirds of them since 1981.
* A.I.D.'s research program has revolutionized our understanding of population dynamics, with 139 demographic surveys in 65 countries. We are the world's largest supporter of such research in the developing world.
* In 1988 alone, more than 30 million couples received family planning services through programs supported by A.I.D.
The 28 countries with the largest A.I.D. population programs have seen a 26 percent decline in the average number of children per woman, from 6.1 in the 1960's to 4.5 today.
When Indonesia expanded family planning in 1974, women were averaging more than 5 children each; by 1987 the rate had plunged to 3.3.
In Mexico, fertility dropped from 6.3 children per woman in 1973 to 3.8 in 1986. The drop reflects changes in Mexico's population policy and a national family planning program begun in the early 1970's.
This Administration opposes abortion and coercion as methods of family planning. But to leap from that to a conclusion that we no longer support family planning is a canard, pure and simple.
 
MARK L. EDELMAN
Acting Administrator, Agency for International Development
 Washington, Nov. 27, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); AFRICA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); INDONESIA (78%); 

COMPANY: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (94%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID)

SUBJECT: BIRTH CONTROL AND FAMILY PLANNING; FOREIGN AID; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS FAMILY PLANNING (93%); CONTRACEPTION (92%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); ABORTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); FERTILITY RATES (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); EDELMAN, MARK L GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



434 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: School Districts' Battle On Tuition Goes to Court

BYLINE: By GEORGE JAMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RIDGEFIELD PARK, N.J., Dec. 15

 BODY:
A neighboring borough that sends its students to this Bergen County community's high school has refused to pay its tuition bill since the beginning of the school year. As a result, the Ridgefield Park Board of Education contends it may have to borrow money to meet its payroll next week.
School officials in the borough, Little Ferry, which sends 202 students to the 546-student high school, say a partial audit several years ago raised suspicions that Ridgefield Park has overcharged them by hundreds of thousands of dollars in recent years.
But the Ridgefield Park Board of Education, which says tuition has not been inflated, sued this week in Superior Court in Hackensack to collect the $558,943 in monthly tuition charges it says Little Ferry owes, $186,314 in tuition charges that come due this month and $130,000 in underpayments for two previous school years. 
Ridgefield Park has also taken the unusual step of asking the court to freeze Little Ferry school board assets unless the total amount, $875,258, is paid within 24 hours of a court order. A hearing is scheduled for Monday before Judge Arthur J. Lesemann of Superior Court.
 
Case Said to Be 'Rare'
The situation is highly unusual, said Dr. Seymour Weiss, director of the State Department of Education's Bureau of Controversies and Disputes.
''I'm not familiar with any other circumstance where a district in New Jersey has refused to pay tuition because officials believed the tuition calculations were improper,'' Dr. Weiss said.
And while it is not unusual for school districts to sue each other or municipalities, he said, suing for delinquent tuition payments with the threat of seizing another district's assets is ''rare.''
The suit contends that Ridgefield Park has been put into ''an extremely precarious financial situation.''
''If this court does not order Little Ferry to immediately make back tuition payments, the Ridgefield Park Board of Education will not be able to meet its employee payroll on Dec. 22,'' the brief said.
But the Ridgefield Park School Superintendent, Charles Juris, said the district would take out a loan if necessary. ''We're not going to allow that to happen,'' he said.
 
Up to $8,244 for a Student
Among the 591 school districts in New Jersey, 151 send students to other towns, said a spokesman for the Department of Education, Ron Shapella.
Little Ferry, a borough of 1.5 square miles and 9,900 people, has sent its high school students to this neighboring 1.92-square mile village of 12,000 people, since 1953. In the mid-1960's the towns agreed that a new high school was needed, Mr. Juris said. Opened in 1968, the two-story brown-brick structure sprawls next to the New Jersey Turnpike down a steep hill from modest two-story houses.
This school year, tuition for Little Ferry students will amount to an estimated $1.6 million, up to $8,244 a student from $6,000 last year, said the Little Ferry School Superintendent, Stacy Holmes.
Underpayments or overpayments occur because of the difference between anticipated costs per pupil made at the beginning of the school year and the actual cost at the end. The actual costs are verified by the State Department of Education.
In court papers, Little Ferry contended it was overcharged $203,000 in 1985 and $285,000 in 1986 and said Ridgefield Park ''improperly and illegally included teachers' salaries which exceeded those actually expended.''
Ridgefield Park says it is owed $130,000 for that period.
 
Awaiting Results
In November 1987 Little Ferry filed the first of two petitions to the Education Commissioner, Dr. Saul Cooperman, requesting it be allowed to audit Ridgefield Park's records dating to 1974. The first was rejected on technical grounds. The second drew a response from Dr. Weiss of the Department of Education that the law does not allow one district to audit another. A district could, however, ask for an audit by the department's Division of Compliance and then appeal that audit to the Commissioner, he said.
Mr. Juris of Ridgefield Park said an audit by the division ''corroborated our figures,'' but Mr. Holmes said the Department of Education had refused to share it with Little Ferry.
On Nov. 1 Ridgefield Park filed a petition with the Commissioner, and on Nov. 16 an administrative law judge, Ward Young, ordered Little Ferry to make its fall tuition payments and some past underpayments. Dr. Cooperman must now decide whether to adopt the decision.
Mr. Holmes said any move to end the relationship with Ridgefield Park must be approved by the Commissioner and would involve a costly legal process. Mr. Juris said the loss of 40 percent of the student body would have an adverse economic impact on the quality of education.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RIDGEFIELD PARK (NJ); LITTLE FERRY (NJ)

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TUITION; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; EDUCATION (SECONDARY) TUITION FEES (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); JUDGES (69%); 

PERSON: JAMES, GEORGE



435 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: SoHo Gift to Wall St.: A 3 1/2-Ton Bronze Bull

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
Wall Street awoke to a gigantic bull on its doorstep yesterday - a 3 1/2-ton 16-foot-long bronze sculpture by an artist from SoHo who deposited it outside the New York Stock Exchange and declared it a Yuletide symbol of the ''strength and power of the American people.''
Hundreds of people walked around, gawked at, admired and stroked the long-horned whip-tailed bull, the image of a surging market in the lore of high finance.
But the symbolism was apparently lost on the Police Department, which said the work had no permit and was obstructing traffic at the busy intersection of Wall and Broad Streets, and even on the stock exchange, which hired a trucking company and had the humongous thing carted away. 
By day's end, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 14.08 points. And while analysts spoke of obscure economic forces, the clerks and sidewalk cognoscenti on the nation's street of dreams were bemoaning the unceremonious removal of Arturo Di Modica's ''Charging Bull.''
 
Inspired by Crash
''We're very disappointed,'' said John Levinson, an analyst with Goldman Sachs, who arrived with a colleague, Judy Comeau, too late to see the sculpture. ''It's a tragedy that artists aren't allowed to express themselves in the spirit of Christmas and friendship.''
Mr. Di Modica, who was born in Sicily, created the black-patina bull of bronze and stainless steel in his studio at 54 Crosby Street over the last two years in response to the market crash in 1987. ''He wanted to encourage everybody to realize America's power,'' said Kim Stippa, his assistant.
The Library of Congress said the earliest known reference to bulls and bears as market symbols was in a 1714 book, ''Country Lasses'' by C. Johnson. ''You deal in bears and bulls,'' the author wrote.
On Thursday night, Mr. Di Modica and some friends loaded the bull on a flatbed truck, drove to the deserted financial district and set down the work on the yellow center line of Broad Street, outside the exchange, facing Wall Street.
Daylight brought crowds, and hundreds stopped to admire and analyze the bull, which was charging under the branches of a 60-foot Christmas tree, also set in the middle of Broad Street. Mr. Di Modica handed out copies of ''The Bull,'' a paean-in-a-flier to his work.
 
The Law Steps In
But even as the bulls and bears went to work, security officials at the exchange were calling the police. ''In effect, they told us there was a very large statue of a bull there, and it wasn't there yesterday, and to the best of their knowledge shouldn't be there,'' said Officer Joseph Gallagher, a police spokesman.
The police said that it was a traffic obstruction and that Mr. Di Modica had no permit. ''He had a negative reaction in the past and decided not to apply for a permit,'' Ms. Stippa said.
As the police were considering how to remove the bull, the exchange hired a company from Queens to truck away what a spokeswoman for the exchange, Sharon Gamsin, called ''The Beastie.''
''We were concerned about safety, security, public access,'' she said. ''That's a very busy thoroughfare.'' As for the bull's effect on prices, she added, ''I'd be delighted to give you the names of several market analysts who make their living doing such things.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of Kiernan O'Connell, left and Leonard McDonald of the Harbor Rigging Company with the 16-foot-long sculpture in a warehouse in Queens after it was removed from the financial district. (NYT/Don Hogan Charles)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYS)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WALL STREET (NYC)

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ART SCULPTURE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); BONDS (79%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (79%); POLICE FORCES (75%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (72%); TRUCKING (69%); LIBRARIES (67%); WRITERS (67%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (62%); 

PERSON: DI MODICA, ARTURO; MCFADDEN, ROBERT D



436 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Frederick Nolting Jr., U.S. Envoy To Saigon in 60's, Is Dead at 78

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE

 BODY:
Frederick E. Nolting Jr., who was United States Ambassador to South Vietnam from 1961 to 1963, died on Thursday at the University of Virginia Medical Center in Charlottesville, Va., a spokesman for the center said.
Mr. Nolting was 78 years old and lived on an estate near Charlottesville in Albemarle County, Virginia.
The spokesman, Jeffrey N. Ware, said he was admitted to the hospital Nov. 13 suffering from heart problems and died of cardio-pulmonary arrest as a result of an aneurism, or swelling, of his aortic artery. 
President Kennedy named Mr. Nolting, a veteran diplomat, as Ambassador to Saigon during the administration of Ngo Dinh Diem.
After taking up his duties, Mr. Nolting voiced the view that military efforts against the Vietnamese Communist forces were more important than political reforms. #1962 Speech Criticized In a 1962 speech in Saigon, he said, ''What a marvelous transformation would take place in this country if all those who criticize their government would decide to work with it and for it.''
The Asia expert Stanley Karnow, in his 1983 book ''Vietnam: A History,'' contended that the statement was ''an astonishing display of naivete'' and that Mr. Nolting had carried out a policy of appeasing Mr. Diem.
Mr. Nolting's tour as Ambassador ended in August 1963. In a statement when he left Saigon he praised what he called the progress made in South Vietnam in agriculture, education, health and commerce and ''in the inculcation of democratic principles.''
But critics have contended that Mr. Diem's authoritarianism undercut support for his Government and therefore hampered efforts against the Communist forces.
 
Born in Richmond
Mr. Nolting was succeeded as Ambassador by Henry Cabot Lodge. Mr. Diem was overthrown and slain in a coup mounted by South Vietnamese generals in 1963.
Frederick Ernest Nolting Jr. was born on Aug. 24, 1911, in Richmond to Fredrick Ernest Nolting Sr. and Mary Buford Nolting. He grew up in Richmond and earned a B.A. degree in History in 1933 from the University of Virginia, in Charlottesville, where he went on to earn a master's degree and a doctorate in philosophy. He earned a second master's degree in philosophy from Harvard.
After being a member of a Richmond investment concern and a Navy officer in World War II, Mr. Nolting joined the State Department in 1946 and went on to be special assistant to Secretary of State John Foster Dulles for mutual security affairs.
Before he became Ambassador in Saigon, his other diplomatic assignments included serving as deputy chief of the United State mission to the North Atlantic Treaty Organiztion and to the Organization for European Economic Cooperation.
 
Retired From Service in 1964
He retired from the Foreign Service in 1964 with the rank of Career Minister, was for some years an executive of the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, based in Paris and New York, and went on to hold teaching and administrative posts at the University of Virginia. He retired there in 1982.
Mr. Nolting was the author of a 1988 book ''From Trust to Tragedy'' and a former board chairman of the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation.
He is survived by his wife, the former Olivia Lindsay Crumpler, whom he married in 1940; four daughters, Molly Nolting Bruner and Jane Nolting Meniktos, both of Charlottesville, Grace Lindsay Nolting of Columbia, Va., and Frances Nolting Temple of Geneva, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
A memorial service is to be held at 11 A.M. on Monday at Saint Paul's Church in Ivy, Va., near Charlottesville.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Frederick Nolting Jr. (1963)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (51%); JPM (LSE) (51%); 8634 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); VIETNAM (95%); VIET NAM (94%); FRANCE (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (95%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (51%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIETNAM

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); COUPS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); HISTORY (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

PERSON: NOLTING, FREDERICK E JR; PACE, ERIC JOHN F KENNEDY (58%); 



437 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
The Economy
The U.S. trade deficit widened sharply in October, to $10.2 billion, and imports jumped to a record, the Commerce Department reported. Many analysts saw the figures as a setback, although some contended that they did not mean consumers were continuing to spend freely, which would help to insure the continuation of a seven-year business expansion. [Page 35.] 
Industrial production rose a lackluster 0.1 percent in November despite rebounding from a major strike and the devastating California earthquake, the Federal Reserve said. [37.] Producer prices fell 0.1 percent last month. The Labor Department put the annual inflation rate of 4.6 percent for the first 11 months of 1989. [37]
The Bush Administration is studying a plan to create a new type of long-term savings account. The interest would be wholly exempt from taxes, and depositors would be allowed access to their money before they retire. [35.]
 
 
 
Companies
G.M. will buy half of Saab-Scania's car-making operations. The move enlarges G.M.'s European presence and plugs a hole in the company's product line. Saab has been looking for a partner. [35.]
Chrysler broadened the scope of its rebates and low-interest financing programs. Rebates will be offered for the first time on the company's highly successful mini-vans. [35.]
Bank of New England's problems in real estate lending are far more severe than previously estimated, the company said, and will result in a substantial loss for the year. [35.]
Manhattan Lawyer magazine will cease publication as a weekly next week, and reappear as a monthly in the spring, its president said. [36.]
Executives of some big newspaper companies predicted that 1990 would be another tough year for advertising sales, but most said a recession was unlikely. [36.]
Gillette will cut 750 jobs, sell some European units and reorganize its U.S. operations. [37.]
Eastman Kodak said its fourth-quarter earnings would be reduced by $273 million, or 85 cents a share, by write-offs of assets and payments to employees who are losing their jobs. [37.]
 
 
 
Markets
Stocks closed moderately lower after falling more sharply earlier in the ''triple witching'' day. [38.] Wall Street awoke yesterday to find a 3 1/2-ton bronze bull on its doorstep. Irritated Big Board officials hired a trucking company to cart away the sculpture, a Soho artist's tribute to the power of America. [31.]
Prices of Treasury securities were largely unchanged after strong opening gains were erased later in the session. [38.]
Gold prices rose sharply, with futures settling $5.50 to $5.60 higher on the Comex, as traders reacted to Panama's latest declaration of hostility against the U.S. Energy prices also surged amid fears that shipments through Central America could be disrupted. [43.] The dollar finished mostly lower in light trading.. [43.]
 
International
Comecon is rapidly disintegrating, many Eastern European officials and economists say. The Soviet bloc's trade organization will soon become an empty shell, some say; others suggest that it could survive, but as a wholly different organization. [35.]
China will devalue its currency by 21.2 percent against the dollar, effective today. It is the first devaluation since 1986. [39.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
When investing for retirement, it is vital to accumulate a portfolio that will outpace inflation, because many retirees can expect a 20- or 25-year retirement. Your Money. [36.]
A ''Roto Rooter'' for clogged arteries was patented by a Stanford cardiologist and his father, a physicist at Johns Hopkins. It could provide an alternative to current techniques. Patents. [36.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (NYT)

TICKER: SCV.B (STO) (56%); SCV.A (STO) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (56%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); PANAMA (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SCANIA AB (56%); BANK OF NEW ENGLAND CORP (54%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); INFLATION (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); SCULPTURE (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); US DOLLAR (70%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (68%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); LAWYERS (65%); DISMISSALS (63%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%); TRUCKING (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 



438 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Bank of New England Says It Will Post Large 1989 Loss

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
The Bank of New England Corportion announced yesterday that its problems in real estate lending were far more severe than previously estimated and would result in a substantial loss for the year.
The Boston-based banking company, the second largest in New England and the 18th largest in the nation, also said it was considering a merger and the sale of assets. In addition, the company said it might rescind a 34-cents-a-share stock dividend to be paid in early January, which it had announced just a few weeks ago. 
After earning nearly $122 million in the first nine months of the year, Bank of New England could lose more than $500 million in the fourth quarter and more than $350 million for the year, analysts estimated.
The loss will result from a large increase in the company's reserve for loan losses, which it said yesterday would rise to more than $1 billion, from $354 million at the end of September. Earnings will also be weakened by a rise in delinquent loans to about $1.6 billion, from $900 million at the end of September.
Investors and analysts were well aware that Bank of New England was one of many banks facing big losses from its real estate lending in the slowing New England economy. In late November, when the company said it expected to announce a large loss for the fourth quarter, investors concluded that the problems were not so large as those disclosed today because the company also declared its stock dividend.
In active trading on the New York Stock Exchange that was more than 10 times the normal volume, the company's stock fell $3.375, to $9, a 27 percent decline on the day, with more than 4.6 million shares traded. In 1987, before the problems began to emerge, Bank of New England stock traded above $30 and the company was highly recommended by many analysts.
''People are not sure this is the bottom of the bank's credit problems,'' said Virginia Adair, an analyst at Drexel Burnham Lambert. ''If there is a recession in 1990, as we expect, credit problems would continue to rise.''
The possible rescinding of the stock dividend was especially bothersome to investors, analysts said. ''When management says the problems are serious enough that they are reconsidering a dividend they declared just a few weeks ago, it raises a lot of questions,'' Ms. Adair said.
The bank said yesterday that a special committee of directors had hired Lazard Freres & Company, the investment banking firm, to study possible mergers or additional sales of assets. It also said that Hugh M. Taylor, executive vice president, had been named head of the real estate group, replacing James M. Sweeney, executive vice president, who was assigned other duties.
In October, the Bank of New England announced plans to sell 53 branches and cut about 800 jobs. In addition to the $20 million to $30 million gain it expects from the branch sales, it recently sold part of its leasing business to the Bank of Tokyo for $110 million and is trying to sell other leasing businesses for $20 million to $30 million.
Analysts said other assets that the banking company might readily sell include its credit card loan portfolio, which totaled $628 million at the end of 1988, and some of its banking holdings. Among its more attractive bank holdings are the Connecticut Bank and Trust Company of Hartford.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW ENGLAND CORP (90%); LAZARD FRERES & CO LLC (61%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF NEW ENGLAND CORP

SUBJECT: FORECASTS; FINANCES REAL ESTATE (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DIVIDENDS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); EXECUTIVES (84%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); MERGERS (76%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL



439 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Savings Incentive Studied

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 15

 BODY:
The Bush Administration is studying a plan that would create a new type of long-term savings account in which interest would be wholly exempted from taxes and depositors would be allowed access to their money before retirement, Administration officials said today.
The purpose of the account, which would require that the money be kept on deposit for a number of years, is to raise the chronically low rate of personal savings in this country. Economists have warned for years that this low rate has been undermining business vitality and future economic growth.
The Administration officials said that the so-called family savings plan was under intense study by the White House and the Treasury, and represented an effort to fulfill a campaign promise by President Bush. Although family savings plan is a working name, the proposal under study would not necessarily apply only to married people with children, the officials said. 
 
No Agreement on Details
The timing of the plan might be advantageous to the White House, since it could permit the Administration to take the lead in the savings debate. Lawmakers said today that the plan would become part of the sharp debate begun this fall between Republicans who want to cut capital gains taxes and Democrats who want to expand the availability of individual retirement accounts.
Government officials cautioned that no details of the proposed account had been agreed upon. But they confirmed a report published Friday in The Wall Street Journal that Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady presented such a proposal on Tuesday to the White House Economic Policy Council.
Under the Brady plan, any interest earned on deposits kept in the account for a 10-year period would be exempt from taxes, both as it builds up and when the funds are withdrawn. The plan initially outlined by the Treasury Secretary would permit savers to contribute up to $5,000 a year to such an account, and provide for penalties on early withdrawal.
 
'A Very Firm Consensus'
One Government official said, however, that the structure of the account could change, with the deposit limit being lowered to $4,000 and early-withdrawal penalties varying according to a sliding scale.
''It is no secret that some kind of savings plan has been bandied about in the Administration for some time and there has been this working group studying the issue,'' said one White House official. ''The only real thing that was done on Tuesday was a very firm consensus that we should do something. However, the council wants to see some very realistic proposals that would be true incentives for individual savings, not gimmicks.''
Indeed, the details are still so sketchy, one official said, that it was not entirely certain what kinds of institutions would be able to offer these accounts. He surmised, however, that all commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions, all of which carry Federal insurance on deposits up to $100,000, would be able to offer them.
The new savings approach is different from current tax-favored accounts, such as the individual retirement account and 401(k) plans, in several ways. Most significantly, the I.R.A. and 401(k) plans merely defer payment of taxes until retirement, while the new account would exempt all interest from any tax.
 
Withdrawl Penalty Likely
Also unlike the I.R.A., which is set up by an individual, and a 401(k), which is employer-sponsored, the new account is not geared toward retirement. It is intended to run only for a fixed period of time, say 10 years. It is also meant to serve such non-retirement needs as education expenses.
However, like the I.R.A. it is expected that the Adminstration would require a penalty for early withdrawal.
Some members of Congress have opposed the type of savings plan offered by the Administration, arguing that only the wealthier middle class and upper class could afford to commit such sums for 10-year periods. But economists argue that these taxpayers are the only real sector of the economy that can generate a large new increase in savings.
Moreover, the plan is also likely to encounter opposition from those who argue that it will be costly for the Treasury. But Government officials said today that this savings plan would give up far less revenue than some of the proposed I.R.A. plans in Congress.
 
A Skeptical View
Some lawmakers and Government officials took a skeptical view of the proposed account, arguing primarily that it did not adequately encourage individuals to generate new savings. They predicted that depositors might instead simply shift money from other accounts into these tax-favored accounts.
''I think the spotlight on savings is welcome, but I am not sure that this provides enough of an incentive,'' said Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat who is a member of the House Banking Committee. ''The benefits are so long term and so far away, and Americans seem to be obsessed with short-term payoffs.''
This fall the Adminstration tried unsuccessfully to push a cut in the capital gains tax through Congress, while the Democrats tried in vain to pass a counter measure that would expand the availability of individual retirement accounts. Neither passed in a legislative standoff.
Though the low savings rate, which has averaged 4 percent of after-tax income over the last four years, has not held center stage as a national issue the way the budget deficit has, many economists say it is an even more pernicious problem. That, they say, is mainly because the rate of savings at the Government, corporate and personal levels in the United States is at nearly an all-time low and is significantly behind that of most of the nation's major trading partners. The personal savings rate in Japan, for instance, has averaged 15.5 over the last four years.
 
The Importance of Savings
Personal savings, which comprise deposits at banks, investments in mutual funds, stocks and bonds, as well as equity ownership in homes, is central to the nation's economic health because businesses essentially borrow the savings to invest in new plant and equipment.
When savings are scarce, the scramble to borrow becomes more intense, which tends to push up interest rates, meaning some corporations cannot invest in modernized plants. That in turn reduces their productivity and profitability, and can result in lower wages for workers.
It also means that businesses may look overseas for new investment capital, possibly selling key assets to foreign investors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; TAX CREDITS; SAVINGS ACCOUNTS AND CERTIFICATES PERSONAL FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (78%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); SAVINGS RATES (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); CREDIT UNIONS (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (72%); MARRIAGE (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); NASH, NATHANIEL C GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



440 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Trade Gap Widest in 10 Months

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 15

 BODY:
The nation's trade deficit widened sharply in October to the highest level in 10 months and imports soared to a record level, the Commerce Department reported today.
The $10.2 billion deficit was higher than expected, and many analysts regarded the report as a setback despite some heartening elements, particularly a rise in exports despite a strike at the Boeing Company, one of the nation's largest exporters.
The $2 billion jump in imports startled some analysts, and some contended that it did not mean that consumers were continuing to spend freely, which would help to insure the continuation of the nation's seven-year business expansion.
''To import the goods is one thing,'' said Stuart G. Hoffman, senior economist at the Pittsburgh National Bank. ''To sell them profitably is another.'' 
 
Little Growth Expected
Most recent indicators have indicated that the economy is markedly slowing. and many analysts now expect little, if any, growth in the quarter that ends Dec. 31. The Labor Department reported today that producer prices fell by one-tenth of 1 percent in November, the third decline in five months. And the Federal Reserve said industrial production rose by a lackluster one-tenth of 1 percent last month. [Page 37.] Earlier this week, the Government reported that retail sales had been virtually unchanged in recent months and that business inventories had begun to swell.
In addition to raising fresh questions about the durability of the trend toward lower trade deficits, the report released today raised the prospect of more trade friction with Japan. The deficit with Japan jumped to $4.9 billion, from $4.1 billion in September, and accounted for 48 percent of the October deficit. Imports of Japanese cars accounted for nearly half of the rise.
 
Oil Bill at $4.4 Billion
The nation's bill for imported oil, reflecting both increased volumes and higher prices, climbed to $4.4 billion, or 43 percent of the overall deficit.
Under Secretary of Commerce Michael R. Darby called the rise in imports ''disappointing'' but stressed that trade data are subject to wide monthly fluctuations. Indeed, the department today raised its deficit total for September to $8.5 billion, from the $7.9 billion initially reported, mainly because of weaker exports.
Yet exports did better than expected in October, particularly since the Boeing strike had idled the company for most of the month. A Boeing spokesman said that the strike's effects had not yet been fully calculated, but that Boeing delivered only four 747-400's costing $125 million each to foreign buyers in October, compared with nine in September.
Walter K. Joelson, chief economist for the General Electric Company, another large exporter, said its export business continued to be ''very strong'' even as the country's manufacturing sector slumped over all. He predicted a further improvement of some $20 billion in the trade deficit in 1990, compared with a reduction of about $10 billion this year and $34 billion in 1988.
The October export total was $31 billion, $329 million higher than the revised level for September.
 
Pressure on Federal Reserve
Even though the October report is not as current as other recent data covering November, economists generally saw it as putting more pressure on the Federal Reserve to relax its monetary policy.
Milton W. Hudson, an economist at the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, expressed the hope that the central bank would soon cut interest rates to avoid what he said could be a situation of ''weakness begetting weakness'' in the economy and the financial markets.
There have been signs that goods ordered during the summer are piling up unsold and that soft real estate prices are causing consumers to feel less wealthy, he added. At the same time, however, there was widespread agreement that strength in European economies, especially in West Germany, would be likely to cushion a downturn in this country.
 
Exports of Capital Goods Down
Today's trade report showed that the biggest gains in exports for October were a $700 million advance in the ''other merchandise'' category and a $300 million rise in vehicles, parts and engines. Exports of capital goods fell, however, by $900 million.
In imports, the main changes were a $1.4 billion increase in industrial supplies and materials and a $300 million increase in foods, feeds and beverages.
While October is a month for bringing Christmas goods into the country, the $10.2 billion deficit figure - the biggest since December 1988 - was adjusted to make allowance for this seasonal pattern. On an unadjusted basis, the deficit climbed to $11.5 billion, from $8.6 billion in September, revised from $8 billion, the report showed.
 
Disappearance of Fluke
By country, the most significant changes - apart from the jump in the American deficit with Japan - were the rapid disappearance of what seems to have been a fluke September surplus with Western Europe and a worsening of the deficit with Hong Kong, South Korea and Singapore. The deficit with Taiwan remained practically unchanged.
The October deficit with Western Europe totaled $460 million, following a $1.2 billion surplus the month before, and the year-to-date deficit now totals $1.1 billion.
With Canada, the nation's biggest trading partner, the deficit climbed to $843 million, from $610 million in September.
On a three-month moving average, the deficit for October is $9.6 billion, up from $9 billion in September and $8.8 billion in August.

GRAPHIC: Graph showing the balance of trade - deficit is the excess of imports over exports (source: Commerce Dept.) (NYT) (pg. 37)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%); GNE (PAR) (81%); GEC (LSE) (81%); GE (SWX) (81%); GE (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (81%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (84%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (81%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE, DEPARTMENT OF

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); RETAIL SALES (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR



441 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: G.M. to Buy Half of Saab Car Unit

BYLINE: By PAUL C. JUDGE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Dec. 15

 BODY:
The General Motors Corporation surprised the auto industry today by announcing it would buy half of Saab-Scania A.B.'s troubled car-making operations. The move enlarges G.M.'s European presence and plugs a hole in the company's product line, which needs models that can compete with imports like BMW and Mercedes-Benz.
G.M. attributes Saab's trouble primarily to its small size and figures it can bring economies of scale to the Swedish company, benefiting both partners. G.M. will pay $500 million for 50 percent of a new company, Saab Automobile A.B., that comprises Saab's auto making assets.
Saab has been looking for a partner for several months as its sales and profits have dwindled, and even some company insiders were betting on Fiat S.p.A. Volvo A.B. and the Ford Motor Company also made offers for Saab, but it rejected those three, reportedly because it was unwilling to give up a controlling interest. 
Instead Saab approached G.M., which only six weeks ago lost out to Ford in a bid for Jaguar P.L.C.
Saab-Scania will keep its profitable truck making, aircraft and military operations. The joint venture requires approval by the Swedish and United States Governments, and is expected to be completed by mid-January, G.M. officials said.
In addition to its equity investment, G.M. is committing $100 million to the company for use as operating capital to cover salaries, materials and equipment purchases for Saab, a G.M. spokesman said. Saab's sagging car business lost $188 million in the first eight months of this year.
The cars built by the new company will be sold under the Saab name through Saab's independent dealer network both in the United States and abroad, an attempt to preserve the prestige and customer base that Saab has built up, analysts say.
''It's less expensive for a car company to buy a luxury division than it is to make one from scratch, mainly because of the high costs of setting up distributors,'' said Scott Merlis, an auto industry analyst with Morgan Stanley & Company.
 
Advantages for G.M. Debated
Analysts said the financial advantages of the deal were less compelling than the improved position it provided for G.M. in Europe.
''G.M. will lose money on this in the first year, but the numbers are small enough that it's not critical,'' said Harvey Heinbach, an analyst with Merrill Lynch.
But some analysts questioned the wisdom of the deal.
''I don't see what G.M. has gained,'' said Maryann N. Keller, an analyst with Furman, Selz, Mager, Dietz & Birney. ''The Opel product line in Europe is already very strong, with models that aren't all that different from the cars that Saab sells.''
Unlike Jaguar, which can bring out new models in a year or two with the help of Ford's investment, ''Saab has nothing in the pipeline,'' Ms. Keller said. Manufacturing costs in Sweden are among the highest in Europe, she noted.
''G.M. will probably make Saab profitable in a year or two if the currency situation is favorable, if component costs are saved and if costs at Saab's plants are cut,'' Mr. Merlis said.
 
Saab's View
''Our problem has been that our volume is too small,'' said Kai Hammerich, an executive vice president with Saab-Scania in Sweden. The company's market share in Europe is less than 1 percent. G.M. already has an 11.4 percent share through its Opel and Vauxhall subsidiaries.
''With a strong partner, we can get the resources to expand our business,'' Mr. Hammerich said, adding that Saab expected to increase production and broaden its product line.
The deal does provide G.M. with an option to make cars at Saab's three plants. In North America G.M. has too much car-making capacity, but in Europe, the only place it has earned profits on car-making operations this year, G.M. believes it could use more.
 
Saab's Potential Output
G.M. officials estimate that the three Saab plants - two in Sweden, one in Finland - could turn out between 180,000 and 200,000 cars a year - about as much as a single American plant. But the Saab factories have been running at half to three-quarters capacity since the mid-1980's, because of slumping sales.
With the company's future uncertain, Saab's sales in the United States have fallen 16 percent so far this year from a year earlier.
G.M. also plans to acquire a large stake in Saab's automotive electronics business, which will be spun off into a separate company, Saab-Scania Automotive Electronics A.B. Saab will retain majority ownership of the electronics business, which is of interest to G.M. primarily because it makes a new direct ignition device that improves cold starting and prolongs spark-plug life.

GRAPHIC: Photo of a new Saab-Scania automotive plant in Malmo, Sweden. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); FSOR (PAR) (91%); F (BIT) (91%); VOLV.B (STO) (84%); VOLV.A (STO) (84%); MS (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (91%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (81%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (81%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (91%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); SWEDEN (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (93%); SAAB-SCANIA AB (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); FIAT SPA (91%); NATIONAL ELECTRIC VEHICLE SWEDEN AB (91%); AB VOLVO (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (81%); JAGUAR PLC (68%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAAB-SCANIA AB; GENERAL MOTORS CORP

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; AUTOMOBILES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); JOINT VENTURES (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); APPROVALS (66%); 

PERSON: JUDGE, PAUL C



442 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Your Money;
Retirement Plan To Beat Inflation

BYLINE: By Jan M. Rosen

 BODY:
WITH life expectancies increasing, many people who stop working at age 65 can expect a 20- or 25-year retirement. That makes it vital to accumulate an investment portfolio that will provide returns that outpace inflation. And those who accept a lump-sum pension distribution and roll it over into an individual retirement account will need to manage it with long-term needs in mind.
That is because, even if inflation rates remain low, the cost of living in the later years of retirement will considerably exceed that of the earlier years, and few pensions are adjusted for inflation. 
''Ten thousand dollars in Treasuries today won't buy $10,000 worth of goods 10 years from now,'' because of inflation and taxes, said Gerald Morlitz, director of Arthur Andersen & Company's personal financial planning group in New York, who conducted a seminar this week for executives on planning to retire. ''I think you are making a big, big mistake if you have everything invested in fixed income.''
If inflation remains a moderate 4.5 percent, it would take $1,553 to buy goods in 10 years that cost $1,000 today; in 20 years, it would take $2,412. At the inflation rate of the last decade, 6.46 percent, it would take $1,870 in 10 years and $3,497 in 20 years.
Many people prefer to avoid risks, choosing ''safe'' investments that will let them sleep at night, Mr. Morlitz said, but they are focusing on market risk while overlooking business risk (affecting a particular holding where one has a big stake such as the A. H. Robins-Dalkon Shield case), interest rate risk and purchasing power risk.
Diversification is a key to managing these risks, he said. That means diversifying assets and changing one's investment styles over time. Many executives have accumulated blocks of their employer's stock but have been so immersed in their work that they have not taken time to redirect their assets into a diversified portfolio.
Even geography is part of diversification. ''If you own a block of I.B.M. stock, don't buy a rental property in Westchester County,'' Mr. Morlitz said. ''If I.B.M. moves south, think what will happen to Westchester real estate.''
A retired person might have time to manage a rental property, however, and therefore might wish to buy one elsewhere, or might want to diversify the stockholdings and buy the rental property close to home.
Mr. Morlitz advised people nearing retirement to pay off their debts because in retirement they may not have enough cash flow to cover those debts. The exceptions to the debt-free rule, he said, are home mortgages and debt incurred to buy an income-producing asset like a rental property.
When it comes to securities portfolios, ''we're proponents of professional management,'' he said, because it takes ability, as well as time and willingness to do well in the market. ''How are you going to go out and compete with people who are immersed in the market day to day and make their living by it?'' he asked. ''It's a pipe dream.''
For portfolios of $500,000 or $1 million or more, Mr. Morlitz recommended that investors select a well-regarded firm that manages individual accounts, like Neuberger Berman, Lazard Freres, Sanford Bernstein or Morgan Guaranty. For smaller accounts he recommended no-load or low-load mutual funds, like those in the Fidelity and Vanguard groups. Arthur Andersen, an accounting and consulting firm, does not manage investments.
One favorite investment for retirement is a tax-deferred annuity sold by insurance companies, and here Mr. Morlitz advised that the company be carefully chosen. Some insurance companies have invested heavily in ''junk bonds'' and could suffer large losses, affecting their ability to pay out on annuities. Others, like Northwestern Mutual, Massachusetts Mutual and New England Mutual Life, have lower-risk portfolios, he added.
 
Help in Retirement Planning
T. Rowe Price Associates Inc., the Baltimore-based investment management firm, is offering a free retirement planning kit to help people figure out how much money they will need for retirement and how to reach their goals. The kit can be ordered by calling 1-800-638-5660.
The kit has a 16-page, letter-sized workbook developed with Coopers & Lybrand that explains how to calculate income and expected retirement needs, allowing for various rates of return on investment and inflation. It guides people through the process step by step. Steven E. Norwitz, vice president of Price, estimates that it will take people who have well-organized records an hour to work through the booklet.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP (69%); 

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT; PRICES; FINANCES, PERSONAL; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); COST OF LIVING (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (64%); 

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M



443 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Top Newspaper Executives Predict Tough Year for Ads

BYLINE: By ALEX S. JONES

 BODY:
Top executives of some of the nation's largest newspaper companies predicted this week that 1990 would be another tough year for advertising sales, but most said they thought a recession was unlikely.
In what has become an annual ritual, the company representatives went before dozens of media analysts during Paine Webber's ''Conference on the Outlook for the Media'' to describe the last year and project the year to come.
While each company had a somewhat different assessment of its prospects, the cumulative message was characterized by several of the analysts as positive but cautious. ''They were mildly optimistic,'' said J. Kendrick Noble Jr., a media analyst for Paine Webber Inc. who organized the conference. ''But they were mildly optimistic last year and the year before, and it got worse, so this year they're even more tempered.'' 
 
Shift of Emphasis
Several analysts also described a widespread, if subtle, shift of emphasis among the newspaper executives.
After several years of belt-tightening, many companies can no longer depend on reducing costs to maintain the double-digit annual increases in profitablity that were routine in the early and mid-1980's.
While virtually every company mentioned a determination to control costs, there was new emphasis on increasing circulation in order to raise advertising rates.
And with competition fierce for advertising dollars, there was a new emphasis on finding inventive ways to increase advertising volume. These methods include everything from more aggressive volume discounting to creating new publications and offering promotions that give ''added value'' - the buzz words of the week - to newspaper advertising.
 
Tribune Company's Plan
The Tribune Company, whose holdings include The Chicago Tribune and The Daily News in New York, devoted much of its presentation to the importance of its impending negotiations with The News's 10 unions.
James Hoge, publisher of The News, told the analysts that The News would probably show a loss for the year and said that he was determined to win the power to hire, supervise, assign work and determine overtime. With union concessions, he said, plans to build a color printing operation would proceed, but he declined to estimate what that would cost in buyouts and other expenses.
The New York Times Company emphasized its circulation growth during the last year, in which daily sales went above 1.1 million for the first time. A slide presentation described the company's new highly automated printing and distribution plant in Edison, N.J., which is expected to begin operation next year.
 
Decline in Ad Linage Expected
Walter E. Mattson, president of the company, said The Times would continue to struggle with a soft local economy and that he expected the paper to experience a 7 percent decline in advertising linage in 1989.
Mr. Mattson said 1990 would probably be another difficult year for The Times, with a further but smaller loss in advertising linage. He said he expected the trend to reverse in 1991.
Knight-Ridder Inc. gave special attention to the start-up of its joint operating arrangement with the Gannett Company in Detroit. On Nov. 27, after nearly four years of seeking Government approval, the companies were allowed to merge the production, advertising and distribution operations of their respective papers, The Detroit Free Press and The Detroit News.
James K. Batten, the company's chairman, said The Free Press was expected to show its first profit in 12 years in 1990, though he declined to say what that profit would likely be.
The Detroit papers have raised circulation and advertising rates.
Gannett said 1990 would mark the first full year of profitability for U.S.A. Today, and it added that it would also be the first year the national daily pays all its own expenses. Some expenses were previously carried by other Gannett papers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; FORECASTS; ADVERTISING; NEWSPAPERS; FINANCES MARKETING & ADVERTISING (94%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (78%); 

PERSON: MATTSON, WALTER E; JONES, ALEX S



444 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Output Rose A Slim 0.1% Last Month

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 15

 BODY:
Industrial production rose by a lackluster one-tenth of 1 percent in November despite rebounding from a major strike and the devastating California earthquake, the Federal Reserve Board said today.
Many economists said the weak gain, accompanied by moderating inflation, suggests that the Fed should permit another easing of short-term interest rates to stimulate the economy.
''Manufacturing production continues to slow,'' said John Silvia, an economist with Kemper Financial Services in Chicago. ''It's not collapsing, but it is slowing. And I think the Fed is sensing that it has some type of leeway to ease.'' 
In today's report, the Fed attributed the slim gain, the first in three months, to a recovery from the Boeing Company strike, which ended in late November, and from the lingering effects on the computer and related industries of the San Francisco Bay-area earthquake in October, when output had slumped six-tenths of 1 percent.
''Excluding the impact of these events, the total index would have been little changed in both October and November.'' the Fed reported.
The manufacturing sector has been among the hardest hit by the Fed's tight-money policies as the central bank tries to contain inflation by slowing the economy without tipping it into a recession.
 
Producer Prices Drop
But in the latest report on inflation, the Commerce Department said today that producer prices dipped one-tenth of 1 percent in November, the third decline in five months.
Industrial output had not risen since a gain of four-tenths of 1 percent last August and that followed a drop of one-tenth of 1 percent in July. It was down three-tenths of 1 percent in September.
Output at manufacturing plants making both durable and nondurable goods rose two-tenths of 1 percent in November after falling eight-tenths of 1 percent in October and four-tenths of 1 percent in September.
Production of durable goods -items expected to last more than three years - rose five-tenths of 1 percent last month after falling 1.8 percent in October and seven-tenths of 1 percent in September. Nondurable manufacturing fell two-tenths of 1 percent after rising five-tenths of 1 percent in October and one-tenth of 1 percent in September.
 
Operating Rate Dips
In another report reflecting sluggishness, the Fed said the operating rate of the nation's factories, mines and utilities edged down one-tenth of one percentage point, to 82.7 percent, in November, reaching its lowest rate since April 1988.
''That's one of the reasons you're seeing producer prices falling,'' said Donald Ratajczak, economic forecasting director at Georgia State University. ''When you have excess capacity, that's when you see price concessions.''
The closer the nation's industry gets to full operating capacity, the greater difficulty it has in producing enough to meet demand, leading to shortages and subsequent price increases. Analysts generally consider an operating rate of 85 percent or above as an indication of inflationary pressures.
Factory use had dipped in October to 82.8 percent, from 83.4 percent in September. The rate posted 10-year highs of 84.3 percent last December and January.

GRAPHIC: Graphs of industrial production from June '88-Nov. '89 (source: Commerce Dept.); capacity utilization from June '88-Nov. '89 (source: Federal Reserve Board) (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (70%); BAB (BRU) (70%); BA (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (70%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (70%); KEMPER FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (71%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (71%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); RECESSION (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MINING OUTPUT (78%); INTEREST RATES (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); 

PERSON: CLARE SHORT (57%); 



445 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Producer Prices Down By 0.1% in November

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 15

 BODY:
A sharp drop in the cost of gasoline helped to push producer prices lower in November, the Government said today.
The annual rate of inflation, as measured by the Labor Department, was 4.6 percent for the first 11 months of the year, up from 4 percent for all of 1988 but much lower than had been feared earlier this year.
The Producer Price Index dipped one-tenth of a percent last month after rising four-tenths of a percent in October and jumping nine-tenths of a percent in September. The index declined five-tenths of a percent in July and four-tenths in August. 
From June through November, the index averages out to an annual inflation rate of about 1 percent in contrast to a 9 percent-plus rate for the first five months of the year.
''If ever there was an example of inflation coming in like a lion and going out like a lamb, it was this year,'' said David Jones, an economist with Aubrey G. Lanston & Company, a Government securities dealer in New York. ''That has to be good news for everyone, particularly the consumer.''
Energy prices declined 3.3 percent last month, their sharpest drop since August. A 7.7 percent plunge in gasoline prices more than compensated for a one-tenth of a percent rise in natural gas costs and a seven-tenths increase in heating oil prices.
Analysts credit the taming of inflation to the tight-money policy that the Fed pursued through the spring. As evidence, they cited a separate report by the Federal Reserve on industrial production in November.
The operating rate at the nation's factories, mines and utilities eased a tenth of a percentage point, to 82.7 percent, well below the 10-year high of 84.3 percent at the start of the year, the central bank said.
 
Fed Reversed Course
Since summer, the Fed has reversed course on monetary policy, hoping to avoid a recession by permitting interest rates to fall. Lower American rates could help the deficit by depressing the value of the dollar, stimulating exports and discouraging imports. The latest round of economic reports may encourage the Fed to lower rates further, although some economists do not expect a drop until after the first of the year.
The producer price report showed food costs rising a substantial eight-tenths of a percent in November, after a 1.4 percent jump in October, the biggest in 22 months. Food prices generally declined from April through September.
Pork prices jumped 7.1 percent after rising 9.5 percent in October. Prices for turkeys and eggs also rose and dairy prices were up 3.3 percent, the fifth consecutive increase exceeding 1 percent.
The increases were partly offset by a 15.1 percent drop in vegetable costs, which had risen 18.9 percent a month earlier, and a 6.5 percent decline in fresh fruit prices. Prices for fish, chicken, coffee and rice also fell.
The price of goods excluding the volatile food and energy categories -a measure many analysts consider a better gauge of underlying inflationary pressures in the economy - rose a modest two-tenths of 1 percent last month after rising one-tenth in October.
Before adjusting for normal seasonal variations, the Producer Price Index stood at 114.8 in October. This meant that a hypothetical basket of goods cost $114.80 last month, compared with $109.80 a year earlier and $100 in 1982, when the index's base was set at 100.
The inflation news was also favorable for earlier stages in the production process. The price of goods in the intermediate stages of production fell a tenth of 1 percent in November, compared with no change a month earlier. Prices of crude goods rose four-tenths of 1 percent after holding steady in October. Excluding food and energy, crude goods prices dropped 2.3 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph of index of finished goods prices from June '88-Nov. '89 (source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AUBREY G LANSTON & CO INC (69%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX PRODUCER PRICES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); GASOLINE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); MONETARY POLICY (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (73%); PORK (73%); HEATING OIL (73%); HEATING OIL PRICES (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (63%); 



446 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Dow Drops 14.08 on 'Witching' Day

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. COLE

 BODY:
Stocks closed moderately lower yesterday, after recovering from earlier sharp losses, as investors reacted to the ''triple witching hour,'' the quarterly time when stock options, stock-index futures and stock-index options all expire.
Monte Gordon, research director of the Dreyfus Corporation, said, ''You're likely to get substantial volatility on triple witching day.'' The market was further roiled yesterday by reports that Panama considered itself at war with the United States, which set off heavy computer-directed selling programs, and by rumors of a new insider trading scandal.
Mr. Gordon also cited the October trade deficit of $10.2 billion, which was far higher than expected. But he said the figures Washington reported for producer prices, industrial production and capacity were in line with expectations. 
Mr. Gordon called it disappointing that there was no news to suggest that the Federal Reserve would vere from present policy. As a result, lower interest rates seem unlikely before the end of the year, he said.
 
Dow Up 8.11 for Week
The Dow Jones industrial average, which was down almost 45 points around midday, closed off 14.08, to 2,739.55, For the week, it gained 8.11 points. Yesterday, the Dow transportation average slumped 14.93, to 1,170.70, and the utility average rose 1.32, to 235.98, its sixth straight high.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index fell 0.52, to 193.45, with 924 issues down and 619 ahead, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 0.79, to 350.14. Volume rose to 240.4 million shares, from 178.7 million shares Thursday.
Elaine M. Garzarelli, executive vice president of Shearson Lehman Hutton, said, ''We're stuck in a trading range for the next year of 2,500 on the downside and 3,100 on the upside.''
Traders said some takeover stocks were depressed by a column in The Daily News by Liz Smith, who said that there were rumors at a party, which she did not attend, that a new inside trading indictment would ''shake Wall Street again to its foundations.''
 
'The Arbs Got Nervous'
''The arbs got nervous and started selling,'' a trader at one major firm said. ''The rumor went around that Coniston was involved.'' Coniston Partners said it knew of no investigation, but UAL, in which it owns a major stake, fell to as low as 156 1/4 before rallying to 160 1/4, down 3 for the day.
One Wall Street trader said that arbitragers had been so battered this year that many overreacted, selling big blocks of Hilton Hotels, Georgia Gulf, USX, MGM/UA, Aristech Chemical and Lin Broadcasting, all stocks involved in deals that have already been announced.
Leading the Big Board's most-active list, Bank of New England fell 3 3/8, to 9, on a volume of 4.6 million shares, after it said it expected a big loss because of the real estate slump in New England. Bank of Boston fell 1 5/8, to 17 1/8, possibly in sympathy.
General Motors, which announced it would take a 50 percent stake in Saab-Scania, the troubled Swedish auto maker, fell a point, to 42 1/2, on 2.4 million shares.
I.B.M. fell during the day to as low as 94, close to its low point near 92 1/2 in 1983, but closed at 95, off only 1/8 point.
DiGiorgio gained 1 3/4, to 27 3/4, after the food company said it had resumed talks on a $32-a-share takeover bid.
Prices fell on the American Stock Exchange and in over-the-counter trading. The Amex market-value index declined 1.32, to 375.50, and the Nasdaq composite index was down 3.64, to 443.84.
In the over-the-counter market, Apple Computer fell 1 1/8, to 33 3/4, on 4.6 million shares after Thursday's copyright infringement suit by Xerox. Apple also told analysts yesterday that it would not meet its growth targets for the October-December period.

GRAPHIC: Favorite Stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (72%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (50%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: DREYFUS CORP (72%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); HILTON WORLDWIDE (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (91%); FUTURES (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); INSIDER TRADING (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CHEMICALS (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); BONDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PRODUCER PRICES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); SCANDALS (70%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (69%); HOTEL CHAINS (60%); INDICTMENTS (60%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: COLE, ROBERT J ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 



447 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Lower in Light Day, Hurt by Economic Data

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar finished mostly lower yesterday in trading that remained thin despite the release of important economic data.
The Government's latest reports on the economy proved bearish for the dollar. The Commerce Department said the trade deficit widened to $10.2 billion in October, greater than the $9 billion traders had expected. A large deficit makes a case for a lower dollar, which helps improve the trade gap by making imports more expensive and exports cheaper.
Separately, the Labor Department said producer prices slipped one-tenth of 1 percent in November, bucking predictions that called for a one-tenth of 1 percent gain.
After the figures were released, ''the dollar came off fairly substantially,'' said Bob Morrissey, senior trader at the Bank of Boston's New York office.
The dollar fell below the important 1.7210 level against the West German mark, leading traders to believe the currency is gathering momentum to move lower.
In New York the dollar closed at 144.15 yen, unchanged from late Thursday. And one pound cost $1.6030, more expensive than Thursday's $1.6010.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Thursday, included: 1.7190 West German marks, down from 1.7344; 1.5480 Swiss francs, down from 1.5630; 5.8785 French francs, down from 5.9285; 1,283.50 Italian lire, down from 1,292.50, and 1.1608 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1598.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; FUTURES TRADING CURRENCIES (91%); US DOLLAR (91%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FUTURES (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); GERMAN MARK (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); 



448 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Raising Money Tops Colleges' Agenda for 90's

BYLINE: By LEE A. DANIELS

 BODY:
Colleges and universities, facing many of the same competitive pressures as big corporations, are trying to raise huge amounts of money to prepare for the 1990's, a decade that many educators think will bring expensive and potentially disruptive changes to their institutions.
Prestigious private schools like the University of Pennsylvania are aiming for a billion dollars or more. The major state universities, long used to being supported largely by public money, are increasingly matching the major private institutions in their fund-raising ambitions. And less well-known colleges and universities, like Ball State University in Muncie, Ind., which says it needs $40 million in outside donations over the next five years, have joined the now-crowded field. 
All these schools differ in many respects. But, says Hanna Holborn Gray, president of the University of Chicago, they share concerns about things like continuing to be able to attract and give financial aid to students, attract and pay new faculty and meet the increasing expense of buying equipment and supporting faculty members doing advanced research.
''Our entire society now must make do with more limited resources,'' Dr. Gray said. ''For higher education, that means sharpened competition for students, faculty and dollars at all levels.''
That has made getting private dollars ''absolutely essential to the quality of management in higher education,'' says George A. Brakeley 3d, former chairman of the American Association of Fund Raising Counsel.
The reason, Mr. Brakeley and others knowledgeable about higher education declare, is rooted in the growing pressure the changed American economy has put on these institutions to cut costs, streamline management, raise new capital and produce a better ''product'' - that is, improve their educational quality.
Among the growing pressures on colleges and universities are these:
* Rising costs for salaries and benefits of faculty and staff (the average salary for a full professor at a four-year college is $50,420 for the 1988-89 school year, according to the American Association of University Professors), for building upkeep and for services and financial aid to students.
* Growing public concern over tuition increases, as evidenced by a current Justice Department investigation of some colleges' tuition-setting practices.
* The extraordinary diversity, in terms of race, ethnicity and age, of undergraduates, and the costs of serving these more diverse students, some of whom need significant remedial help.
* New developments in scholarship, such as the increasing collaboration of faculty in different disciplines in combined research projects, which not only tend to be far more expensive but have disrupted many traditional practices.
 
The 'Typical' Student Changes
Higher education has undergone tremendous change during the 1980's. For the first time, more than half of the nation's undergraduates, now 11 million strong, entered college as adults, not teen-agers. Also, numerous studies show that increasing numbers of undergraduates are taking longer to gain their degrees and attend more than one college.
In addition, a recent study predicted that, barring a two-thirds increase in the number of new Ph.D.'s, colleges and universities will face a big shortage of faculty members in the early 1990's.
In response, the larger public and private universities are more aggressively hunting for private money. The University of Miami in Florida and Ohio State University are each among the handful now trying to raise more than $400 million.
Even the University of Pennsylvania's gigantic effort will not break new ground. It is the fourth institution, after Boston University, New York University and Stanford University, whose campaigns got under way in the mid-1980's, to try to raise $1 billion. Cornell University will probably launch a billion-dollar campaign next year.
 
Harvard Reaches High
And Harvard University will likely up the ante in 1991 by mounting a campaign to raise $2 billion, according to sources at the school.
To be sure, the major private universities as a group remain the most proficient fund-raisers, according to a study in the recent issue of Currents, the magazine of the American Association of Fund Raising Counsel.
But John A. Dunn, Jr., vice president of planning at Tufts University in Medford, Mass., one of the study's authors, notes that now 6 of the 20 most successful fund-raisers are public institutions, among them the University of Minnesota, the University of Illinois and the University of Wisconsin at Madison.
Over all, Mr. Dunn says, public universities account for 20 of the top 50 institutions in total gifts.
And, as with Ball State, institutions which have previously done relatively little fund-raising have joined in the hunt. For example, the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, Va., is trying to raise $65 million in its first major effort.
Giving to higher education fell last year for the first time since 1976 even as total gifts to philanthropy increased. Experts attributed the decline, to just under $8.2 billion from $8.5 billion the previous year, to the impact of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, which affected big donors by tightening some rules on deductions for charitable giving. Fund-raisers expect donations to rebound next year.
School officials hope the rund-raisers are right. ''We've raised our tuition by 6 percent, but that's our limit,'' says John E. Worthen, Ball State's president. ''We're loath to go higher, because then we'd be pricing ourselves out of range of the students we think we can attract.''
 
Finding Their Niche
Dr. Worthen said the campaign's other compelling cause was to secure a ''niche'' as a teaching university.
''We're a mid-sized university,'' he said. ''Our people do research, but they do less of it, so we can't compete with an Indiana or an Illinois. But we can be excellent in teaching undergraduate and graduate students.''
Officials at major institutions talk about their niche as well. But their eyes are set on the very top of higher education's pecking order.
Sheldon Hackney, Pennsylvania's president, speaks of his university being part of ''a new set of leadership institutions'' among the major research universities - those which, having planned properly, will emerge from the coming decade rich and strong.
 
The View From New York
This vision - and ambition - is one shared by John Brademas, president of New York University, and Edward T. Foote 2d, president of the University of Miami.
''We don't have any small plans here,'' said Dr. Foote.''We're striking to become one of the greatest research universities in the world.''
Mr. Brademas said the ''restructuring'' he envisions will not be ''a matter of some institutions there now declining in quality. It's the question of who can rise to that level of excellence in these difficult times.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (62%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA HEALTH SYSTEM (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%); BALL STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); BALL STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES; SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; TUITION COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (93%); FUNDRAISING (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); TUITION FEES (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (67%); ETHNICITY (64%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); 

PERSON: DANIELS, LEE A HOLBORN 'HANNA' GRAY (70%); 



449 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-35
 
Vaclav Havel may become President of Czechoslovakia until elections are held. The playwright appeared close to an agreement with former Prime Minister Alexander Dubcek to lead the opposition's fight for the vacant post. 1

 
The East German sports authority has begun an agressive new marketing plan to raise money to keep the nation's elite athletes successful, in spite of Government cutbacks. 1

 
East German Communists confront their party's collapse 30

 
Technology exports to the East bloc could resume. Cocom, the allied agency that has restricted trade of sophisticated goods since the cold war, will soon relax export curbs, White House officials say. 1

 
Sakharov's supporters decide not to form opposition party 31

Bulgarian opposition urges help for Muslim minority's plight 30

Cold war's thaw might reach clear to the South Pole 28

 
India's new Parliament will convene on Monday and debate a package of legislation that Prime Minister V. P. Singh says will restore dignity, integrity and democracy to the nation. 3

 
Misery replaces hope in a battered Afghanistan 26

Beirut decree cuts funds to renegade commander, Gen. Aoun 18

Wife of missing Israeli airman says he is held by Iran 19

 
China's economic laboratory is a sun-drenched island on the southern frontier. This hub of entrepreneurial activity is feeling the tug of Beijing's renewed orthodoxy. 16 
 
 
Bush defends China visit, but says sanctions should remain 32

 
China draws fire for effort to curb U.N. on rights 34

U.N. asks Hong Kong to delay deportations 12

Japan to deport Chinese hijacking suspect 11

 
Diplomatic posturing in Cambodia has picked up as warfare continues. An Australian plan for a U.N. trusteeship that would prepare for new elections is generating interest. 15

 
De Klerk says South Africa does not aid Mozambique rebels 24

White supremacists imperil Pretoria's push for change 22

Sudan cracks down on internal opposition 23

Benin government is growing fragile 25

 
Mexico City's drivers will be curbed one day each week under a Government plan to reduce toxic emissions in the world's most crowded and polluted metropolis. 4

 
Opposition leader in Panama rejects Noriega peace offer 5

Fighting in El Salvador prompts a new exodus 8

F.B.I. scales back Felix Bloch inquiry 3

 
NATIONAL 36-47
 
A Federal appeals judge was killed by a bomb explosion at his home in a suburb of Birmingham, Alabama. The judge, Robert S. Vance, died instantly when a mail bomb exploded. 1

 
Corruption charges against agents of the Drug Enforcement Administration have undermined morale and crippled many investigations, agents say. Seven agents face trial for ''crossing the line,'' as corruption is known. 1

 
Universities are racing to raise funds for the 1990's, a decade that many educators think will bring expensive and potentially disruptive changes to their institutions. 1

 Endowment embattled over academic freedom 42

 
Now Americans are taping everyone from friends to business associates on inexpensive answering machines. Recordings of conversations, used in divorce cases or business dealings, are often illegal. 46

 
Teamster denies fighting U.S. through his union 37

 
The crane collapse in San Francisco that killed five people was no fluke. Scores of people die each year in accidents involving construction cranes, which are all but unregulated. 36

 
Marcos's estate and widow are held liable in U.S. killings 36

Hunt's assets will pay creditors, court rules 36

Louisiana plantation owners sell history to preserve it 44

 
REGIONAL 50-58, 61-64
 
Staten Islanders debated secession the morning after Governor Cuomo announced he would allow the borough to vote in a referendum on the issue in November. 50

 
A gay man was ordained as a priest in New Jersey by Bishop John S. Spong, head of the Episcopal Diocese of Newark, despite the strong protest of traditionalist bishops. 54

 
Loyalty may have been anti-drug chief's downfall 50

Vallone approves big raises for five top council aides 58

New York G.O.P. still seeks challenger to Cuomo 54

Farewell notes to Mayor Koch offer jobs and hugs 51

Goldin to open a financial consulting firm 55

The N.A.A.C.P. celebrates its 80th anniversary in style 56

 
Neediest Cases 99

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CHINA (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PANAMA (79%); BULGARIA (79%); SUDAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); HONG KONG (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (70%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (70%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); COLD WAR (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (86%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (84%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); JUDGES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); SPORTS (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); EXPORT CONTROLS (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); MARKETING PLAN (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); HIJACKING (64%); DEPORTATION (64%); CORRUPTION (63%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (60%); EMISSIONS (60%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%); 

PERSON: VACLAV HAVEL (74%); VISHWANATH PRATAP 'V P' SINGH (56%); 



450 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 6, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Left or Right? Brazilians Will Decide Today

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Dec. 16

 BODY:
Brazilian voters will choose on Sunday between two presidential candidates offering radically different paths for Latin America's most populous nation: socialist or free market.
The three most recent polls show the two candidates in a technical tie.
After tumbling steadily in polls in the last 10 days, Fernando Collor de Mello, the center-right candidate, is believed to have benefited from a strong performance in a nationally televised debate on Thursday night.
Today, however, the leftist and union candidate, Luis Inacio da Silva, predicted confidently that he would win by three to four percentage points. 
In interviews at their campaign headquarters, the candidates displayed sharply differing styles and sharply differing visions for solving the country's pressing problems: mass poverty, 1,700 percent annual inflation and a $110 billion foreign debt, the largest in the developing world.
Interviewed in Brasilia, the 40-year-old Mr. Collor argued energetically in favor of privatizing state companies, encouraging foreign investment and injecting competition into Brazil's monopolistic brand of capitalism. ''We have a corrupted, degenerate capitalism,'' Mr. Collor said. ''We have to reduce the participation of the state in the economy.''
In foreign affairs, Mr. Collor advocated closer trade links with the United States, Japan and Europe. He said he hoped that by the year 2000 Brazil would join the ranks of the superpowers.
 
New Approach to Debt
On the debt, he advocated allowing each Brazilian debtor company to negotiate directly with creditor banks -a violation of most loan contracts. Brazil has not made service payments on the debt since July.
From May until last week, Mr. Collor led in opinion polls. But in recent days, Mr. da Silva severely damaged his rival's standing by painting him as the establishment candidate.
The son of a wealthy family, Mr. Collor had a privileged upbringing in Rio and Brasilia, where he became a national karate champion. In 1979, at the age of 29, he was appointed by Brazil's military Government to be Mayor of Maceio, the capital of Alagoas State. While a member of a succession of parties that supported the military government, he became a congressmen and then Governor of Alagoas.
Unwilling to be labeled a rightist, Mr. Collor declined to make campaign alliances after Brazil's first elimination round of voting on Nov. 15. Campaigning alone, but with heavy financial support from businessmen, he crisscrossed the interior of Brazil, conducting as many as 10 rallies a day in small cities.
In sharp contrast to Mr. Collor, Mr. da Silva grew up in the interior of Brazil's impoverished northeast, ended his time in school at the primary level, and fled to Sao Paulo in the back of a truck when a drought threatened to kill his family.
 
Jailed by the Military
In Sao Paulo, he rose to the top of the trade union movement, frequently crossing verbal swords with Brazil's military. In 1979 he formed the Workers' Party and the next year the military jailed him for a month for leading an ''illegal'' strike. In 1986, he was elected congressman for his party, a coalition of trade unionists, Socialists and Marxists.
In last month's vote he was the furthest to the left of the top six vote-getters. Since then, he has moderated some of his stands to win endorsements from more moderate leftists.
In an interview last week, the stocky 44-year-old called for ending all debt payments until a political solution is found, for giving workers seats on the boards of state enterprises, and for distributing unused land from large estates to landless peasants.
Asked if his candidacy was out of step with recent developments toward private enterprise systems in Eastern Europe, he replied with a phrase that has won cheers on the campaign circuit: ''We are going to knock down our own Berlin wall - a wall of hunger, prostitution, illiteracy and poor health.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRAZIL

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EXTERNAL DEBT (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); CORPORATE DEBT (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); INFLATION (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); MARTIAL ARTS (67%); APPOINTMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: DA SILVA, LUIS INACIO; COLLOR DE MELLO, FERNANDO; BROOKE, JAMES



451 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 12, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Asks Hong Kong to Delay Deportations

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GENEVA, Dec. 16

 BODY:
United Nations refugee officials are asking Hong Kong not to forcibly return any more boat people to Vietnam until an international meeting next month tries to come up with a new approach to the problem.
But United Nations officials reject claims that the British colony's forced repatriation of 51 boat people on Tuesday violated international law regarding refugees.
''The 51 who were sent back were determined by the Hong Kong authorities as well as us to be non-refugees,'' said Raymond Hall, a spokesman for the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. ''There was no question of a violation of refugee law in that case.'' 
The meeting in Geneva on Jan. 18 and 19 is to be attended by representatives of more than 25 nations, including the United States, Vietnam, Britain and Southeast Asian countries. They make up a panel named at an international conference here in June to seek a new strategy to resolve the problem of the boat people.
The committee has been deadlocked since its establishment, largely because of United States opposition to forced returns. Britain, which says the forced repatriations have been temporarily suspended, insists that the colony has no choice but to carry them out.
At the June conference it was unanimously agreed that the Vietnamese should be screened and that those determined to be economic migrants and not legitimate political refugees should return to Vietnam. Those at the meeting agreed that refugees should be persuaded to return ''voluntarily.'' But participants could only agree to a vaguely worded proposition that ''alternative'' solutions should be found if voluntary repatriation did not work ''after a reasonable period of time.'' Amnesty International and other human rights groups have protested that the deportations should end because screening is not done fairly. United Nations officials share some complaints about the speed of the procedure and the quality of language interpretation for the Vietnamese.
But they say Hong Kong officials have been improving the screening process. ''We have safeguards in Hong Kong which don't necessarily exist in other countries,'' said Dennis McNamara, deputy director of refugee law and doctrine at the High Commissioner's office.
Under an agreement with the British colony, the High Commissioner's office has played a large role in screening the boat people.
The United Nations criteria are based on a 1951 refugee convention that defines a refugee as anyone outside his or her country who has ''a well-founded fear of persecution'' on political, ethnic, religious or other grounds.
 
Cases Subject to Review
The United Nations has about 20 lawyers stationed in Hong Kong monitoring the screening and intends soon to increase the number to 35. Under an agreement with the British colony, the High Commissioner's office may review the cases of all Vietnamese determined by Hong Kong to be non-refugees.
Whenever United Nations officials believe a determination is mistaken, they have the right to change that person's status to that of a refugee. Hong Kong is allowing those determined to be refugees to remain on its territory until they are resettled by a country of permanent asylum. About 8,000 of the nearly 57,000 boat people in Hong Kong have been screened so far, according to the High Commissioner's office. Eight hundred forty-one were granted refugee status by Hong Kong officials, and another 65 by United Nations refugee officials.
Although the repatriations have been suspended by Britain, Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher has defended the practice and said it will continue.
British officials have accused the United States of hypocrisy on the issue. In November, after a meeting with President Bush, Mrs. Thatcher pointed to the United States policy of intercepting boats filled with Haitian asylum-seekers and forcing them back to Haiti.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (91%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (53%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIETNAM; HONG KONG; GREAT BRITAIN

SUBJECT: DEPORTATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES REFUGEES (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEPORTATION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); 



452 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 29, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: Greek Communists Face Revolts in the Ranks

BYLINE: By PAUL ANASTASI, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATHENS, Dec. 16

 BODY:
Like many Communist parties that have relied heavily on the support of Eastern European governments, Greece's Communist Party is battling for survival.
''All members are called upon to struggle toward the development of a new type of party,'' a Communist statement said after a Central Committee meeting last week to discuss the crisis in its ranks. ''It has been determined that the party's influence is waning among the poorer classes.''
The Communist Party has averaged 12 percent of the vote, or about 750,000 voters, in recent elections. Now, in an attempt to stem an erosion of public support, Communist leaders have resorted to several moves, including the formation of a more moderate left-wing umbrella party that has secured Communists a place in government for the first time. 
Other senior party officials have defected to the rival Socialist and conservative parties, while a large number of hard-liners have broken off and threaten to form a separate Communist party.
Founded in 1918 soon after the Bolshevik Revolution, the Greek Communist Party went so far as to denounce the defense of Greek soil against the Nazi invasion, reversing its stand only when the Soviet-German alliance collapsed.
At the end of World War II, it tried to seize power by force. After a four-year civil war, the Communists were defeated, largely as a result of British and then American military and economic aid. Outlawed in 1947, the party was not legalized again until 1974.
The party never deviated in its loyalty to Moscow, opposing Greece's membership in NATO and the basing of American troops on Greek soil, and supporting the Soviet interventions in Hungary in 1956, in Czechoslovakia in 1968 and in Afghanistan in 1979.
But Mikhail S. Gorbachev's liberalization programs caught the Greek Communists by surprise. Not until 1987 did the party leader, Harilaos Florakis, declare his support for perestroika. And as international Communism foundered, he soon joined more moderate leftist parties to form the Coalition of the Left and Progress, which won 13.1 percent of the vote in the inconclusive elections in June and 10.8 percent in the November voting.
In an unprecedented move earlier this year, and as evidence of further moderation, the leftist coalition joined the conservative New Democracy Party in a three-month interim Government. At present, the Communists are part of an all-party Government.
But such ideological concessions have brought a revolt from the hard-liners. Fifteen members of the party's Central Committee have either resigned or been dismissed. Some have expressed disillusionment with Communism because of developments in Eastern Europe. Others have protested that the leadership has abandoned its ideological purity.
 
Yeltsin Is Avoided
This has so debilitated the party leadership that when Boris N. Yeltsin, a leader of Soviet political forces that think perestroika is proceeding too slowly, visited Athens two weeks ago, Mr. Florakis was the only Greek party leader to decline a meeting. His concern was to avoid further reaction from hard-liners.
Other Greek Communist leaders have joined rival parties. Markos Vafiades, the leader of the rebel Communist government set up during the civil war, joined the Socialists after denouncing his former comrades as K.G.B. agents and secret members of the Soviet Communist Party. Mikis Theodorakis, the renowned composer, left the Communists two months ago and joined the conservative party.
Mr. Florakis supports changing the party's name and turning the present left-wing alliance into a permanent party structure.
A West European diplomat here who specializes in Communist affairs said: ''The Greek Communist Party had always been an affiliate of the Eastern bloc. With the parent company discredited and in disarray, it would not be surprising if the subsidiary branch in Greece closed down or changed its business altogether.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GREECE (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); HUNGARY (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREECE

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); WORLD WAR II (71%); CIVIL WAR (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); ARMED FORCES (64%); 

PERSON: ANASTASI, PAUL



453 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 36, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: San Francisco Crane Collapse Was No Fluke

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 16

 BODY:
When a construction crane fell more than 16 stories into the heart of San Francisco's financial district last month, killing five people, it was one of the worst such accidents on record. But it was no fluke.
Scores of people, nearly all of them construction workers, die in less spectacular crane accidents every year, and hundreds more are injured in inherently dangerous work made even more perilous because it is all but unregulated.
In all states, people need licenses or other forms of certification to be architects, building inspectors, surveyors, plumbers, electricians and truck drivers. 
But except for New York State, New York City and a few other states and municipalities, no license is needed to run machines that are vastly more powerful than automobiles.
''Any idiot can get out there and operate a crane,'' said Joseph A. Kinney, executive director of the National Safe Workplace Institute in Chicago.
 
Few Inspections of Construction
The Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration, like most state safety agencies, has regulations for cranes, and some are stringent and precise. But like most of the state agencies, OSHA says it lacks the money and personnel to investigate construction sites for hazards before accidents happen. It investigates afterward.
In addition, few authorities require contractors to keep someone at their building sites who is responsible for overall safety, including the health of workers. The condition of the San Francisco operator, Lonnie Boggess, who died in the collapse, has come into question because of reports that he drank and was suicidal.
And few states or cities - New York City is the principal exception - require contractors to give advance notice of crane maneuvers, like the process of raising a tower crane that was a factor in the collapse in San Francisco.
There are no reliable records of construction accidents, much less of those involving cranes, but construction vies with agriculture, mining and heavy manufacturing as the nation's most hazardous business, the Labor Department says.
 
Injury Rate Is Highest
And in a survey of eight major business sectors in the economy, including mining and manufacturing, the Labor Department found that the injury rate at companies with fewer than 500 workers - the vast majority of companies - is highest in construction.
Crane operators are the elite workers on a construction job; tower crane operators, masters of machines that can be as complex as a small airplane, are the elite of the elite. In California, unionized operators earn $22.22 to $27.45 an hour, plus another $10.47 in benefits - more than any other construction workers - so they can often count on annual wages exceeding $50,000.
The machines they operate include slender, one-legged tower cranes, like the one in San Francisco, and long-nosed behemoths that crawl over the ground hoisting and delivering their loads with the might of hundreds of men.
In the hands of inexperienced operators, ''cranes are very, very dangerous, and they can cause a lot of havoc,'' said David V. MacCollum, a construction safety consultant in Sierra Vista, Ariz., who formerly ran safety programs for the Army Corps of Engineers and is a former president of the American Society of Safety Engineers.
With their big iron hooks and their loads, cranes can slam workers, he said. The cranes can also tip over and crush workers, drop them to their deaths when lifting them or electrocute them when crane booms run into high-voltage power lines - the most common cause of crane-related deaths.
Mr. MacCollum was an expert witness in a case against a crane company in Seattle that was involved in an accident there four years ago, which he said appeared similar in its mechanical aspects to the one in San Francisco.
Scott Dearing, an experienced tower crane operator, then 30 years old, plunged 324 feet in his crane's cab. As in San Francisco last month, the crane was being ''jumped,'' a delicate and time-consuming procedure used to move up the top of a tower crane as floors are added to a building.
 
Fault Is Called Widespread
In the Seattle case, workers on the crane removed too many bolts at a critical moment. The remaining bolts broke, and the cab and the big horizontal boom tipped over. The boom struck the pavement first, apparently breaking Mr. Dearing's fall. Remarkably, he survived with minor injuries but suffered stress and is unable to work, he said in a lawsuit.
Mr. Dearing won a $465,000 settlement from the company that operated the crane. ''My accident happened because the company that held the franchise did not adequately supervise or train their employees,'' he said.
''But others were at fault here too -the unions, the state and the Federal Government - not just the crane contractor,'' he said. Not once did Washington State's job safety authorities or Federal inspectors examine the crane, he went on, adding: ''They just examined my reports. What kind of safety inspectors are these?''
In the 1988 and 1989 fiscal years, OSHA dispatched investigators to 73 sites where 75 fatalities resulted from violations of OSHA's safety standards for cranes. The agency's penalties, an object of criticism by labor unions and safety experts, were as low as $320 and rarely more than $3,000.
New York City and New York State have written the toughest safety restraints in the nation, but only after the deaths of pedestrians in Manhattan.
 
Accident Kills Pedestrian
Seven years ago, a crane dislodged chunks of a rooftop at Madison Avenue and 53d Street. They fell 44 stories, killing Warren F. Levenberg, an executive on the sidewalk below. And four years ago, a crane crushed the legs of Brigitte Gurney, another pedestrian, in an accident at Third Avenue and 63d Street. On Oct. 3, a crane tipped over in Midtown, just missing midafternoon crowds and the Russian Tea Room.
John V. Moran, an official of the Laborers' National Health and Safety Fund, which is financed by labor and business, said New York State ranked sixth, after South Carolina, Maryland, Massachusetts, Arizona and New Jersey, among 36 states he surveyed for the fatality rate of construction workers over five years.
Besides requiring certification for crane operators and contractors to supply safety managers on construction sites, New York City requires that builders put netting around their projects to trap falling debris. ''And we inspect all building sites twice a week,'' the city building commissioner, Charles M. Smith Jr., said. ''They check 85 items.''
California is likely to give new consideration to adopting restraints on crane operation for the same reason New York did: because someone outside the construction crew - Kathleen Tay Holden, a school bus driver - was killed. ''Cranes don't get attention when they fall on workers,'' said an official of the state OSHA.
Even the building industry in California acknowledges that some additional regulation may be desirable, because it would bring into line some builders who take excessive risks. ''Our industry is so competitive that there are those who will cut corners,'' said Richard B. Munn, executive vice president of the Associated General Contractors of California in Sacramento. ''It would be my guess that there will be a real push for crane operation licensing as a result of this.''

GRAPHIC: photo of toppled crane in San Francisco (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SAFE DEPOSITORY (56%); OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF)

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); DERRICKS AND CRANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (90%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); SURVEYING & MAPPING (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); DEREGULATION (72%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (70%); TRUCK DRIVERS (70%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 



454 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 39, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Hawaii to Screen for Potential Child Abusers

BYLINE: By CAROL LAWSON

 BODY:
In an ambitious effort to combat child abuse, Hawaii has begun the nation's first effort to screen all parents for danger signs.
By 1992, the state aims to evaluate every new parent so that those most likely to abuse their children are identified. Those considered most prone to commit abuse are offered five years of counseling and home visits intended to help troubled families cope with economic and psychological problems.
Experts say that although there are other prevention programs around the country an effort with the scope of Hawaii's has never been tried before in the United States. Studies have shown that intensive early intervention in the home can sharply reduce the incidence of child abuse. 
''Hawaii has a strong, exciting program,'' said Heather B. Weiss, director of the Harvard Family Research Project. She said the program, Healthy Start, ''has the potential not only to prevent abuse, but also to promote family development.''
 
Increase in Reported Abuse
Nationwide, there were 2.2 million reported cases of child abuse in 1987, the most recent year for which figures are available, according to the American Association for Protecting Children, a divison of the American Humane Association.
Hawaii's program, now in its first year of statewide operation, screens about 60 percent of new parents and offers weekly home visits to the 20 percent who are judged to be at risk. Officials said that only about 5 percent of the parents approached had declined to take part. About 75 percent of the parents served by the program are mothers on welfare.
Healthy Start officials said they had heard concern from outside the state that the program's widespread screening could be viewed as an invasion of privacy. But Hawaii state officials said that care is taken to avoid labeling families as potential abusers and to offer help without threats.
 
'There Is No Coercion'
''I don't see this as an invasion of privacy,'' said Betsy Uohara Pratt of the Hawaii Family Stress Center, which supervises the training of counselors in the program. ''We are providing help to families that need it before something goes wrong. Our services are voluntary. There is no coercion.''
Healthy Start begins with the screening of new parents in the hospital shortly after the birth of their child to assess marital status, income, housing, history of substance abuse, family support network and desire for a child.
Ms. Pratt said Healthy Start screeners can often glean danger signs from hospital charts, which, for example, can show that a parent lacks a telephone or a permanent address. Such danger signs lead to follow-up interviews with the parents.
Interviewers try to determine if parents were abused as children if the parents seem to lack self-esteem, if they have difficulty getting along with children and other adults, or if they are hostile or impatient with babies or have been violent toward children in the past.
Parents thought to be prone to commit abuse are offered the services of Healthy Start home visitors, following the family with visits and telephone calls in the years that children are at the highest risk of serious abuse - up to 5 years of age. The visits are weekly for at least six months and then gradually become less frequent. The visitors help teach parents how to deal with their children and also, in an effort to stabilize the family, to help low-income parents make use of social services in the community.
The program is expected to cost about $6 million annually.
While the results of Healthy Start will not be known for several years, the program has already run into one unexpected problem. ''We are finding more severely high-risk families than we expected because of the spread of drug abuse,'' said Gail F. Breakey, director of the Hawaii Family Stress Center in Honolulu, which conducted the three-year pilot program upon which Healthy Start is based.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HUMANE SOCIETY (55%); AMERICAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION (55%); AMERICAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION CHILDREN'S DIVISION (55%); AMERICAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION (55%); HUMANE SOCIETY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAWAII

SUBJECT: CHILD ABUSE CHILD ABUSE (92%); PARENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (89%); FAMILY SERVICES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (76%); MENTAL HEALTH (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); ANIMAL WELFARE (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (71%); 

PERSON: LAWSON, CAROL



455 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 44, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Plantation Owners Sell History to Preserve It

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Dec. 15

 BODY:
Along the back roads of Louisiana's plantation country, among white-columned mansions and gardens perfumed with sweet olive trees, marketers are busily trying to sell history.
The owners of the graceful houses built more than a century ago, trying to preserve some of the nation's major architectural treasures, have thought up dozens of ways to attract paid visitors, from house tours to bed and breakfast inns to re-enactments of Civil War battles.
But this year the plantation country is roiled by unusual worries. A dozen or more of the great houses are for sale, in large part because of the high cost of mortgages and maintenance. In some cases there is dissension among the descendants of earlier owners. 
 
'Demolition by Neglect'
''Our biggest problem,'' said Donna Fricker, a state historian, ''is demolition by neglect. The climate here is cruel to people and to buildings. Some of these houses may be in the hands of 12 heirs who can't agree on anything and the houses are just falling down.''
What the houses mean to the history-conscious region is more than the price they would bring on the market.
''These are our chateaus of the Loire Valley, our castles on the Rhine,'' said Eugene Cizek, an architecture professor at Tulane University. ''The same kinds of people created them.''
''The design of these houses is as fine as you'll see anywhere in the nation,'' he said. ''On the eve of the Civil War there was more money in the Lower Mississippi Valley per capita than any other place in the New World.''
Keith Marshall, owner of Madewood Plantation House in Napoleonville, said what is going on now is ''almost a replay of the post-Civil War period,'' when economic problems threatened to bring down many of the 400 plantation houses that had survived the Union troops.
 
Decreasing by One a Year
Since then, 300 houses have vanished like the culture that spawned them, victims of demolition, fire or neglect. The houses are now vanishing at the rate of one a year.
''Around the time of the 1984 World's Fair, people thought these houses were great investments,'' Mr. Marshall said. ''Everybody thought they were going to make millions - that the South shall rise again.''
But the hopes of the homeowners were shattered, along with the hopes of the whole region, by the economic downturn in the oil industry.
In most of the best-kept houses, visitors are diligently sought. Oak Alley, on the Mississippi River in Vacherie, built a Christmas bonfire on Dec. 9 and gave a party for 200 people at $50 a ticket.
The bonfire was just one event among many fund-raising efforts for Oak Alley that include house tours, a restaurant, a bed and breakfast operation and, this year, a re-creation of a Civil War battle.
Oak Alley is owned by seven cousins who inherited the house from their great aunt, Josephine Stewart. One of them, Zeb Mayhew, lives in the overseer's cottage and supervises Oak Alley's commercial endeavors. It is satisfying work, he says, but a losing battle in the face the harsh economies to pay high maintenance costs.
But four of the cousins, who live in the Northeast, prefer to sell; Mr. Mayhew does not fault them. ''So much money and effort have already been put into the place by family members,'' he said. ''You can't keep going to the family well.''
And so the house has been on the market for two years. Its price: $4.8 million.
Mrs. Fricker, the historian, believes that the home is a treasure worth preserving. ''I hate to sound magnolia-mouthed,'' she said, ''but Oak Alley represents the pinnacle of 'Gone With the Wind' plantation architecture.''
At Madewood, the price of preservation is vigilance and a range of commercial activities, Mr. Marshall said.
Madewood has rented rooms for several years, ever since an electric bill arrived that was ''$450 larger than the largest bill we'd ever had,'' he said.
''I was in a state of shock,'' he said. Then came a call from three couples asking for overnight accommodations. $150 per Couple per Room ''Without skipping a beat, I said yes,'' Mr. Marshall recalls of the somewhat arbitrary method he chose for setting a price. ''I divided $450 by the three couples and said the price would be $150 per couple for the room dinner and breakfast.''
Without overnight guests, he said, ''We'd have to pay the bills out of our paychecks.'' Mr. Marshall is owner of an art supply business; his wife, Millie Ball, is a reporter for The Times-Picayune.
Mr. Marshall and Ms. Ball entertained 150 people for an early Christmas dinner Dec. 9 at $50 per guest, an event to promote the house as well as to finance a scholarship program for young artists.
On occasion, plantation house owners must take on onerous tasks to promote the past. Mr. Marshall said that one day when a television crew arrived, he dragged his wife ''kicking and screaming into a hoop skirt.''
''She stayed red as a beet all day long,'' he said. ''They wanted us to wave from the balcony. Finally I had to take her hand from behind and lift it for the camera.''

GRAPHIC: Some owners of graceful old plantation houses in Louisiana are selling history. This year a dozen or more of the houses are for sale, mostly because of the high cost of mortgages and maintenance. Recently the owners of Oak Alley in Vacherie, La., on the Mississippi River, held a bonfire and party to raise money. The house is also a restaurant and bed and breakfast inn and is open to house tours (The New York Times/Matt Anderson); the owners of Madewood plantation in Napoleonville, La., have rented rooms for several years to help meet mortgage payments and upkeep (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (93%); CENTRE-VAL DE LOIRE, FRANCE (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW WORLD LIBRARY (53%); NEW WORLD WINES (53%); NEW WORLD SOFTWARE (53%); TULANE UNIVERSITY (54%); TULANE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOUISIANA

SUBJECT: PLANTATIONS; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES CIVIL WAR (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); HISTORY (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (71%); FUNDRAISING (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 



456 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 45, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Motorcyclists Lose in Battle With the Tortoise

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 16

 BODY:
Three desert motorcycle races have been denied Federal operating permits. The denials marked a victory for environmentalists trying to save the desert tortoise.
Ed Hastey, state director for the Federal Bureau of Land Management, said on Monday that the permits for the annual Barstow-to-Las Vegas motorcycle race, the Johnson Valley-to-Parker, Ariz., race and the Parker 400 would be denied indefinitely.
The tortoise was added to the nation's endangered species list as an emergency measure on Aug. 4. Its status will be reviewed next April. The Barstow-to-Las Vegas race, the most popular among off-road enthusiasts, has been fought in court over the years by the Sierra Club, the Wilderness Society and other groups that say it damaged the environment. 
 
Put on Hold in 1975
The race, first run in 1967 with thousands taking part, was put on hold by the bureau for seven years in 1975. It was reinstituted under guidelines that limited participants to 1,200.
In recent years, the Barstow-to-Las Vegas race has ended at the Nevada border, although the name remained. More than 1,100 participants rode this year.
Off-road cyclists said Tuesday that their way of life was the real target in the Government's latest action.
''More ravens kill tortoises than off-road vehicles,'' said Ken Boyd, president of District 37 of the American Motorcycle Association, which oversees the Barstow-to-Las Vegas race. ''But you can't control ravens. It's easier to dictate to people.''
 
Vow to 'Do It Anyway'
Jim Hayes, owner of a Yamaha-Suzuki dealership in Beaumont, said that he has ridden motorcycles in the California desert since 1949 and that many riders will not stop.
''There are so many people who really love this sort of thing and they are going to go out and do it anyway,'' Mr. Hayes said. Some runnings of the Barstow-to-Las Veags race, which is held on Thanksgiving, have seen groups like Earth First! claim responsibility for mismarking courses and laying tire spikes.
A bureau spokeswoman, Barbara Maxfield, said there were problems despite legitimate controls.
''We did find at least two burrows adjacent to the course that were crushed,'' Ms. Maxfield said.
Members of the Sierra Club reported that they, too, had seen riders leaving designated areas and widening corridors that should have been narrow passages. ''To this date, not one single tortoise has been injured or killed,'' said Mr. Boyd of the motorcycle association.
 
Environment Is Also Protected
But because the tortoise is an endangered species, its delicate environment is also protected.
The tortoise's future became critical over the summer, when tortoises began dying of a respiratory ailment. Its survival rate is already threatened by urban sprawl and natural enemies like ravens that peck at its young.
Motorcyclists see a threat to their way of life - for instance, communal gatherings of families at favorite spots for weekends. And while Ms. Maxfield noted that about 100 desert races were not affected by the decision on Monday, motorcyclists interviewed said it was only a matter of time until the rules were widened.
''Don't close down the land,'' said Allen Barbor, of Palmdale. ''Most of it has been used for desert riding for years. You really can't get there by foot, so why not let motorcyclists enjoy it?''
The wear on terrain is precisely the problem, argued a Sierra Club official, Elden Hughes. ''The desert is not there for everyone to destroy,'' he said.
Steve Kassanyi, race director for Score International, sponsor of the Parker 400, called the decision unfair and said it will be challenged.
The ruling is sure to have an adverse economic effect on Barstow, 100 miles northeast of Los Angeles. Attendance for the race is estimated at 4,000 to 5,000 people, raising hotel occupancy to 90 percent of the city's 1,500 hotel rooms.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (84%); BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (84%); SIERRA CLUB (56%); THE WILDERNESS SOCIETY (56%); THE WILDERNESS SOCIETY (56%); AMERICAN MOTORCYCLIST ASSOCIATION (54%); AMERICAN MOTORCYCLIST ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTERN STATES (US); CALIFORNIA; NEVADA

SUBJECT: TURTLES AND TORTOISES; MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR BIKES AND MOTORSCOOTERS; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); MOTORCYCLES (90%); DESERTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); WILDERNESS (73%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (69%); NEW CAR DEALERS (65%); CYCLING (58%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (50%); THANKSGIVING (50%); 



457 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 46, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: With More Machines, That Phone Conversation May Be on Tape

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
A growing number of Americans, accustomed to taping everything from college lectures to television shows, now own answering machines or other devices that allow them to record conversations with their families, friends and business associates.
People tape conversations to keep track of business agreements, to preserve the voices of loved ones and to seek advantage in divorce cases.
They make recordings despite state laws and little-known regulations that ban such activity and in some states make it a crime. But in most states it is not a crime to record your telephone conversations. 
 
Equipment Cheap and Plentiful
And in recent years more and more people are recording their calls. Whereas in the past only telephone companies sold such recording equipment and showed little interest in doing so, today the equipment is as close as the neighborhood electronics store for a modest price.
A survey last June found that 28 percent of American households have answering machines, up from 3 percent at the end of 1983, according to a spokeswoman for the Electronic Industries Association. Major manufacturers say nearly half the models now sold have a feature that permits instantaneous and secret taping of both sides of the conversation.
The growing sales of devices that allow the secret recording of telephone conversations make it ''not at all problematic or unreasonable to conclude that a great many calls of a business or personal nature may be recorded,'' said H. W. William Caming, who retired in 1984 after 19 years as the American Telephone and Telegraph Company's senior counsel for privacy issues and who now advises the American Bar Association on privacy matters.
The technical difficulties of detecting such recording activity has prevented effective regulation, Mr. Caming said.
Federal law makes it a criminal offense for anyone without a court order to intercept other people's conversations without their consent. Sixteen states also make it a criminal offense for people to tape their own telephone conversations without the knowledge of all parties to the calls.
 
Rules Are Seldom Enforced
Little-known regulations passed by the Federal Communications Commission and most state regulatory authorities also bar taping without the knowledge of all parties or without the use of a beep tone. But the regulations are seldom enforced, and their legality has been in question since Congress passed a law in 1968 that said taping by one party in the conversation is not a Federal crime.
Yet, lawyers and sociologists specializing in privacy issues said, the ability to record telephone calls with a home answering machine that sells for less than $100 at most consumer electronics stores may be making Americans less disapproving of the practice and more guarded in their conversations.
Many people are becoming inured to secret recordings, said David F. Linowes, a professor of political economy at the University of Illinois who was the chairman of a Presidential commission that studied privacy issues after revelations in 1973 that President Richard M. Nixon secretly and routinely recorded his conversations.
''Right now, we're offended when that occurs,'' Mr. Linowes said, ''but we're becoming less and less so. We're becoming hardened, emboldened. We're learning to reflect on what we say in communications, especially on the telephone.''
The recording of telephone calls received national attention earlier this month when a kicker for the Dallas Cowboys football team, Luis Zendejas, said he had secretly taped a conversation with a Philadelphia Eagles coach. Mr. Zendejas alleged that Al Roberts, the Eagles' special-teams coach, told him a bounty had been offered to any player who could injure Mr. Zendejas or the Cowboys' quarterback, Troy Aikman.
After a game with the Eagles last Sunday, Mr. Zendejas said, ''I record all my conversations. I'm in the public eye. I record all my friends' calls.''
The National Football League said an investigation had found no evidence to support Mr. Zendejas's allegations of a bounty. He refused to release the tape, citing the illegality of his taping an interstate call.
 
Some Machines Have Beepers
Not all answering machines permit soundless taping. The Panasonic Company makes answering machines that generate a periodic warning beep when conversations are being recorded. But the answering machines made by four large rival companies, A.T.&T., the Cobra Dynascan Corporation, PhoneMate Inc. and the Code-A-Phone Corporation, do not produce a tone. And many consumer electronics stores sell small boxes that plug into a telephone line and activate a tape recorder whenever the phone receiver is lifted. Those boxes cost $20 to $50.
''People with money always had this at their disposal, but now you see people at a lesser economic scale wanting to do the same,'' said Jairo A. Cuenca, the owner of the Proof Company, a Manhattan firm that sells investigative devices. Mr. Cuenca and privacy experts said that the falling cost and improved quality of telephone recordings, coupled with growing public tolerance, accounted for the increased interest in taping.
The Federal Communications Commission, A.T.&T. and others have made fruitless attempts to measure the extent of secret home taping. ''There's no way to tell,'' Mr. Caming said.
An electronic eavesdropping detection consultant in Clinton, N.J., Kevin D. Murray,, said it remains virtually impossible to detect a tape recorder on the other end of a telephone line.
Demand for equipment to tape telephone conversations is strong, said salesmen at three telephone equipment stores in New York, while salesmen in Cincinnati, Denver and Los Angeles stores said demand was less there.
Most customers who want to record phone calls secretly are age 25 to 40, said Calvin Rowland, a salesman at the Phone Booth, a store in midtown Manhattan. Shoppers looking for an answering machine tend to be very enthusiastic when shown how to record a conversation, he said. ''When you mention that it's a feature on an answering machine, they say, 'That's great, I can really use that.' ''
 
Confusion Exists Over Laws
Other vendors say they suspect that few customers take advantage of the capability. ''It's just a feature that's on there; I don't think many people use it,'' said Robert B. Miller, the vice president for merchandising at Radio Shack, one of the nation's biggest retail sellers of answering machines.
Considerable confusion exists about the laws and regulations governing the taping of telephone conversations.
At the end of a recent telephone interview with somone in Manhattan, Jon S. Hiltunen, the manager of media relations at the Dictaphone Corporation headquarters in Stratford, Conn., was asked whether he had secretly taped the conversation. Mr. Hiltunen said he had, since Connecticut requires only one party in a conversation to consent to any recording.
''You bet I will exercise my prerogative'' to tape, Mr. Hiltunen said. ''I see nothing wrong with that.''
But a lawyer with the Federal Communications Commission, Angel M. Cartagena of the common carrier bureau, said Mr. Hiltunen's action, al though not a violation of Federal eavesdropping statutes, was nonetheless a violation of the commission's rules requiring that all parties to an interstate or international be aware they are being taped.

GRAPHIC: A variety of gadgets are now available to people who want to record their phone conversations. Yash Jesrani, owner of the Phone Boutique in Manhattan, demonstrated a device that silently activates a tape recorder (The New York Times/Linda M. Baron)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (58%); ELECTRONIC INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION OF JAPAN (55%); ELECTRONIC INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION (55%); ELECTRONIC INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION (55%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES; WIRETAPPING AND OTHER EAVESDROPPING DEVICES AND METHODS FAMILY (90%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (89%); WIRETAPPING (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); LITIGATION (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (71%); FAMILY LAW (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); SOCIOLOGY (68%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (56%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH RICHARD NIXON (50%); 



458 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 55, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Goldin to Open a Financial Consulting Firm

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
Harrison J. Goldin, who failed dismally in his attempt to spring from the City Comptroller's office to the mayoralty, plans to open a financial consulting firm specializing in advising troubled businesses and municipalities.
Mr. Goldin said on Friday that the firm, which will be called Goldin Associates, will open on Jan. 2 with offices in the General Motors Building. It will be a joint venture with Baker Nye Investments, a long-established firm in Manhattan. He described Baker Nye as ''my investors'' but said he will be the major owner of the new firm. 
The 53-year-old Mr. Goldin, who leaves the Comptroller's post this month after 16 years, said he is eager to begin his new career. He considered other job options after finishing at the bottom of a four-man Democratic mayoral primary on Sept. 12, but decided financial advising ''is a niche for which I am exceedingly well suited.''
 
Less Than 3 Percent of the Vote
''We are entering a period, unfortunately, of economic distress in this country,'' Mr. Goldin said. ''You can hardly pick up the newspaper every day without reading about companies that are over-leveraged when the underlying business is sound, ones in which the financial structure is killing what would otherwise be a workable enterprise. It's clear that a number of those situations are going to explode.''
Mr. Goldin received less than 3 percent of the vote in the Democratic mayoral primary, in which David N. Dinkins, the Manhattan Borough President, also defeated Mayor Edward I. Koch and Richard Ravitch, the former head of the Charter Revision Commission. Mr. Dinkins will be sworn in as mayor on Jan. 1, as will Elizabeth Holtzman, who succeeds Mr. Goldin as comptroller.
Mr. Goldin, who earned $105,000 for running the 1,000-person Comptroller's office, said he will enjoy the financial advantages of the private sector.
''I'm very satisfied with my financial prospects,'' he said. ''It represents an extraordinary opportunity to make up to my family what they might have had in the many years I was in public service.
 
Living Higher 'Off the Lamb'
''Maybe we'll live a little higher off the hog, or I should say a little higher off the lamb,'' said Mr. Goldin, who does not eat pork.
Mr. Goldin, who had a political reputation as both cerebral and ambitious, appeared serene while reflecting on his public career, including his failed attempt to become mayor.
''I think what happened was clear,'' he said. ''An early poll showed me at 20 percent and that seemed a very good base from which to launch a mayoralty campaign. What happened was the focus at one point became a two-man race and voters became convinced that if they did not choose one of the two front-runners it was the equivalent of staying home.''
He said the results did not make him cynical.
''I've lost before,'' he said, referring to his unsuccessful race for state comptroller in 1978. ''I've learned that whether you lose by a hair or lose by a country mile, either way they don't pay for place or show.''
Mr. Goldin, a lifelong New Yorker, was a civil rights lawyer and investment counselor before entering politics. He was elected to the New York State Senate in 1965 and served four terms before being elected in 1973 to the first of four terms as Comptroller. He said he viewed his accomplishments as Comptroller ''with immense satisfaction,'' particularly the modernization of accounting, budget control and information systems; the sound investment of city pension funds, and the creation of revenue by investing available city funds overnight.
Determined to leave office as a statesman, Mr. Goldin had kind words last week for Mayor Koch, with whom he has waged a long and occasionally bitter feud.
''Ed Koch can look back on some important achievements,'' he said. ''He inherited a city that was dispirited . . . and by sheer verve and energy he helped to create a sense of excitement and of possibilities.''
And the Mayor's failures? ''They've been so heavily written about, why should I try to discuss them?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOLDIN ASSOCIATES; BAKER NYE INVESTMENTS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT MAYORS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICS (73%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); 

PERSON: GOLDIN, HARRISON J (COMPTROLLER); SACK, KEVIN



459 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 99, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: New Yorkers of All Ages Receive Aid From Neediest Case Fund Agencies;
Helping 'Total Child' Takes a United Effort

BYLINE: By PHILIP COLTOFF; Executive Director, The Children's Aid Society

 BODY:
Now that the excitement of New York City's election is over and a new mayor is in office, a critical task lies ahead. A new beginning is at hand with the awesome responsibility of bringing this city out of a myriad of complex economic and social problems that affect the poor and needy. But the responsibility for these changes does not lie with the mayor alone. Guided by his leadership, we all share this responsibility and need to play a part to get the city back on track - and in particular, to help the thousands of poor children and their families who are in such desperate need.
While government can set the guidelines and play a major role in overseeing this effort, it cannot handle these problems alone. There needs to be a grass-roots effort led by New York's not-for-profit organizations to bring the community together, united in the pursuit of a better city. These organizations already make up the core of our neighborhoods. They understand the issues, the problems, the people. 
New York's not-for-profit organizations have been created by civic-minded individuals or groups to provide basic, essential services often complementing or substituting for government programs. They provide the children's services, run the local libraries, operate the zoos - often at a lower cost, more efficiently, with clearer accountability and more visible outcomes than those projects assumed by government. This is what The Children's Aid Society strives for and what will help us to meet the growing needs of our city's neediest people, its children.
The Children's Aid Society, one of New York's oldest private child-welfare agencies, has never settled for simply providing for basic human needs - food, clothing and shelter. As a full-service agency, we know that love is not enough, but certainly, neither are the basics. We strive to provide services to help the ''total child'' - insuring a safe and secure home life, providing health care, educational services and recreation for preschoolers through teen-agers. Perhaps our greatest contribution is offering each child a value system that will help to create solid, self-sufficient citizens.
As we look around us, we cannot avoid seeing and hearing about the problems of the city. There is more child abuse, more drugs, more crime and more spending of tax dollars to solve these problems. They are ever present and people often reach the saturation point, not wanting to hear any more bad news.
Not-for-profit organizations and social services agencies must take the lead on these issues. They have become our best hope as advocates for New York's poor, our best hope for creating solutions. We at The Children's Aid Society believe that advocacy is best accomplished through example. By tackling a problem head-on as it develops, we are best equipped to identify the cause and best qualified to argue a solution. To best serve the neediest in our city, the social service agencies must continue to work to solve these problems and then, when we propose a solution for others to carry out, we have already tested an effective cure.
And there is good news too. It is often hard to find, behind reports of crack addiction, AIDS and racial attacks. But there are young people concerned about racial tension who are getting together in Harlem, Yorkville, Greenwich Village and the Upper West Side to make sure what happened in Bensonhurst never happens in their neighborhoods. Many parents and teen-agers are concerned about positive values and are working hard to pass these values on to their children and community.
The Children's Aid Society continues to create programs to confront New York's pressing problems. Our Teen Pregnancy Prevention Program, now in its fifth year, stands as a sterling example of how a community-based effort can overcome a social dilemma, providing teen-agers with the tools to realize positive alternatives to teen-age parenthood. This autumn, as a response to the hundreds of requests from social-service agencies nationwide that seek to replicate this highly successful intervention service, we have opened our Bernice and Milton Stern National Training Center for Family Life Education, which will train social workers, educators and health professionals in our holistic approach to this crisis.
Our PINS - Persons in Need of Supervision - family court diversion and mediation program, which was begun as a pilot project 10 years ago, is now mandatory by state law. This counseling service has proven that, with proper guidance, even severe family problems can be resolved without the children having to be removed from their homes.
The Children's Aid Society Career Readiness Program provides more than 300 high school students with what it takes to reach career goals. Along with tutoring, educational guidance, preparation for job interviews, contacts and job leads, the program also provides financial assistance and lots of encouragement. This practical program has helped more than 90 percent of the participants stay in school, with some even attending prep schools and a large percentage attending college.
In further response to our concern for the ''total child,'' The Children's Aid Society is currently developing a Community Leaders Program meant to address all aspects of a child's development. The goal of the program is to foster young people with the strength of character, education, values and goals needed to transcend the problems of drugs, pregnancy and poverty - young people who can serve as community leaders and positive role models for future generations.
New York City's new administration offers us a great opportunity to take a fresh look at where we are as a city, where we need to go and how we are going to get there. It is an opportunity for the powerful voice of not-for-profits to be heard - including the hundreds of thousands of volunteers who are the backbone of New York. Not-for-profits represent every aspect of our lives and so together we can support not only the ''total child,'' but also the ''total city.'' With a strong wave of support from this city's broad volunteer sector, in the tradition and spirit of our ancestors, New Yorkers can and must come to the aid of its suffering citizens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); MAYORS (90%); CHILD WELFARE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); CHILD ABUSE (70%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (68%); 

PERSON: COLTOFF, PHILIP



460 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 89, Column 3; Society Desk

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: Michelle ArtilesTo Wed in April

 BODY:
Michelle Patricia Artiles and Jeffrey Howard Cohen, the son of Mr. and Mrs. Harvey W. Cohen of Livingston, N.J., plan to be married in April. Their engagement was announced by Lucy Artiles of Miami, the prospective bride's mother. 
The bride-to-be, 22 years old, is a credit analyst with Chemical Bank in New York. She graduated from Miami Senior High School and Rollins College. Her mother is an interior designer in Miami.
Mr. Cohen, 25, is an associate with the New York law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore. He graduated from Newark Academy and received a B.S. degree in accounting and a B.A. in economics, both magna cum laude, from the University of Pennsylvania. He received his J.D. cum laude from Harvard University. His mother, Rita F. Cohen, is director of her own educational consulting concern in Livingston. His father is chairman and chief executive officer of the Square Electric Supply Company in Parsippany, N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CRAVATH SWAINE & MOORE LLP (83%); CHEMICAL BANK (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (87%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (86%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

PERSON: ARTILES, MICHELLE P; COHEN, JEFFREY H



461 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 2; Page 8, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2284 words

HEADLINE: THEATERZ;
An Actor Relives the Sorrows of His Homeland

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG

 BODY:
John Kani wears a chip on his shoulder like a badge of honor. He has earned it, for his talents as South Africa's most prominent black actor have been forged against the anvil of apartheid.
''We look at 1989. Every white liberal and black moderate says there has been change,'' Mr. Kani said recently over lunch at Harridan's, a restaurant in the oasis of interracial informality defined by the Market Theater here. ''I still don't vote. I still live in a segregated area with inferior facilities. My children are still pumped with inferior education that makes them servants of the white man. There is now less work for more of my people. The important thing is I still haven't got the right to be.''
It is a testimonial to Mr. Kani's craftsmanship that he conveys an altogether different impression in Athol Fugard's new play, ''My Children, My Africa,'' which had its premiere at the Market Theater in June and which he is accompanying to New York for its American debut tomorrow at the Perry Street Theater in Greenwich Village. 
Mr. Kani plays Anele Myalatya, an amiable schoolteacher bubbling with a desperate good will; Mr. M., as he calls himself, hopes that by teaming up his favorite black pupil with a white schoolgirl in a national literary competition he will vindicate the ill-paid years that he has spent toiling in a separate and unequal educational system. His dream is shattered, and heself-destructs when racial unrest ravages his shabby black township. Both the play and Mr. Kani's performance were uniformly saluted in Johannesburg.
''It's a good part, it's a great part, it's a difficult part just to live with,'' said the 46-year-old actor. It is also a part he might not have accepted but for his long friendship with Mr. Fugard because he perceives of Mr. M. as a collaborator, however unwitting, with the white minority Government.
Mr. Kaniand his wife, Princess, now live in the middle-class area of Soweto, the segregated black township south of Johannesburg where they have brought up their five children, aged 5 to 22. But he came out of an areasimilar to that of Mr. M. One of his brothers spent five years as a political prisoner on Robben Island, South Africa's version of Alcatraz, and another was killed in the racial unrest that erupted across the country. John Kani himself spent 15 days in detention without charge or trial.
But when a plum role presented itself, an actor's instincts eclipsed those of a militant. ''It is an important part in the actor's career,'' Mr. Kani said of the role that Athol Fugard wrote for him. ''You can't always play the hero. You have to play the villain.'' His justification for accepting the role was that Mr. Fugard's play was based on a real incident. ''When I tell a story, I have to tell it honestly,'' he said. ''I know of teachers who are still ringing bells in the ruins of burned-out schools. All I ask is, is there a man like this who was there?''
Mr. Kani grew up in New Brighton, a black township srawling around the Indian Ocean city of Port Elizabeth. His father was a policeman who sometimes brought prisoners home for a meal before taking them to jail. He was forced into early retirement, Mr. Kani said, after he arrested a couple of white burglars and marched them handcuffed through downtown Port Elizabeth, outraging some whites who thought black policemen were paid to catch black criminals.
The family had no money to send John Kani to university. ''I woke up one morning and I stood in front of my father's house and I said, 'This is not my life.' I'd never be a lawyer, which I wanted to be. I would have a drab job like my next-door neighbor and it frightened me. I said, 'No, no, I deserve a little more than this.' '' So at 18 years of age, Mr. Kani said, he decided to become an actor because he had performed in a few school plays and loved storytelling. A friend told him that a troupe calling itself the Serpent Players needed a walk-on for a production of ''Antigone.'' The others at the rehearsal were black except for a wiry man wearing a beard and a shabby brown sweater. ''I thought he was the caretaker of the theater,'' Mr. Kani recalled.
In fact, he was Athol Fugard, at 29 the troupe's director and an emerging playwright. Mr. Kani didn't trust him. ''I was very suspicious of these white people,'' he said. ''I had heard stories of white people sucking the veins of black people and writing strange stories about us and making millions.''
But as Mr. Fugard drew a parallel between the resistance to tyranny in the ancient Greece of ''Antigone'' and the black struggle in South Africa, Mr. Kani's skepticism wavered. ''There was something about him talking to the actors that touched something within me that needed to be touched,'' he recalled. He refused Mr. Fugard's invitations to dinner, but he did begin borrowing his books. ''I'd ask, 'Give me a book to read,' and I'd stay up two nights and return it. A very important thing developed between us. I began to trust him and his motives. Then we became friends.''
It was not an easy thing to do in 1965, when crossing the color line was not only hazardous but also illegal. The authorities assumed there was something subversive about black actors and a white director putting on a play together.
Five members of the troupe disappeared into prison, Mr. Kani said, and the security police visited him at home. Mr. Fugard was labeled a Communist for consorting with blacks.
The security forces also sabotaged their performances. ''We'd work for weeks and weeks and hire a hall and the day of the opening, they'd come and close the hall,'' Mr. Kani said. But the Serpent Players managed to stage Mr. Fugard's early plays, including ''Sizwe Banzi Is Dead.'' In 1973, they were invited to perform ''Sizwe Banzi'' in London.
From London they took ''Sizwe Banzi'' and a new Fugard play, ''The Island,'' to the United States. Mr. Kani and his friend Winston Ntshona shared a Tony Award in 1975 for their performances of the plays on Broadway.
''We said, 'My God, the world is not like New Brighton. It's bigger than that,' '' Mr. Kani said. ''I came back with the realization that my dream of a nonracial society was not a hallucination. Apartheid is a lie, people can work together, people can create together.''
Mr. Kani moved through a succession of roles in Fugard plays like '' 'Master Harold' . . . and the Boys'' in which he brought the black experience increasingly to white audiences. He takes issue with those critics who have declared that black protest in the theater made its point and that it is time to move on.
Such theater, he said, is an integral part of the struggle against apartheid. ''Work that is called protest or black theater is actually work that reflects what is happening in the townships,'' Mr. Kani said. ''I should call it a theater that reminds people, talks to people, affects people.''
Even so, Mr. Kani, who has directed theater workshops in Soweto, conceded that a lot of political plays haven't been very good.
''I believe strongly that the word 'protest' is no excuse for bad work. The artist must create,'' he said. ''But we live in a country that is dominated by inequalities. We are eroded and damaged by Bantu education. There are young men with stories in their souls. Mistakes must be made. My part is to assist in my experience, to say this is the format, this is how it is done. ''We have people with stories they have to tell but no craft in telling it. But the truth they deal with is something I couldn't deny.''
Moreover, while the state's Arts Council has subsidized white theaters in South Africa - the self-supporting Market Theater is a penurious exception - Mr. Kani noted that there is not a single theater in a black township and that if he mounts a production in such a community, its quality is compromised by the poor facilities. Even the political climate, he said, will not allow it. ''The first problem black theater encounters in this country is South Africa itself. We live in a perpetual state of emergency.''
Mr. Kani said it was hard for blacks to survive as actors, politically as well as economically. ''Every artist who began to blossom was nipped in the bud by the security authorities, either by intimidation or detention.''
The current laws, he said, forbid more than a few people to assemble for political purposes under one roof. And army patrols through the townships have inhibited people from going out at night.
''Where do you do the play?'' Mr. Kani asked. ''When I as an actor want to be in a theater, I have to leave the black zone.''
The stage of the Market Theater is where Mr. Kani has usually performed. It wasintegrated long before other theaters and movie houses in Johannesburg. ''As a black person, I feel comfortable at the Market Theater,'' he said. ''I'm not here by permission.'' He refuses, he said, to perform in a theater for whites, even when it admits blacks by exception. He also turns down parts that he thinks demean blacks, which he said limited his earnings. He recently turned down a part in the action film ''Red Scorpion'' that would have required him to play a guerrilla beholden to whites. ''I don't play a role when a black takes his hat off to a white without showing he's a man,'' he said. ''That's not for me. A man must have respect and dignity.''
But he allows for those trapped in the quagmire of prejudice. His role as Mr. M. reveals the teacher's quiet rage at a flawed educational system he outwardly represents. ''I want my man to say, I am a man, not a 'boy,' '' Mr. Kani said.
Yet even Mr. Kani sometimes needs a holiday from apartheid. ''There is a side of me that must learn the craft, aside from being a fighter,'' he said. In 1987, he starred in a production of ''Othello'' directed by the South African actress Janet Suzman at the Market Theater. And earlier this year, he played the sassy chauffeur in a South African tour of the Pulitzer-Prize-winning American play ''Driving Miss Daisy.'' ''I'm not an example of how far a black actor can go in South Africa,'' Mr. Kani said. ''I am an exception. I cannot attribute it to change in this country. I am what I am without the compliments of the Government and the Arts Council.''
But Mr. Kani has matured in stature playing the kind of people that he grew up among in New Brighton. He has resisted directing, he said, because ''I'm still selfish as an artist. I want to be under the lights.'' Most of his work has been with Mr. Fugard, with the occasional film. His latest movie role was a supporting part as an investigator gathering depositions on police torture in ''A Dry White Season,'' which was filmed in Zimbabwe with Donald Sutherland, Marlon Brando and Janet Suzman.
Recognition as an actor has mellowed Mr. Kani since his angrieryouth. But his close friendship with Athol Fugard does not extend to many other whites, though he admitted that he had begun to see ''a lovely coming together among white and black South Africans.''
For now, if he had to count his white friends, the actor said, he could not complete the fingers on his hand. ''I do not believe that the black person qualifies as a human being in a white person's dictionary,'' Mr. Kani said. ''Even when white people come to understand a black person's situation, it is in the form of condescension or curiosity.''
 
HIS DAUGHTER, HIS PLAY
 Athol Fugard dedicated his new play, ''My Children, My Africa,'' to John Kani and to his daughter, Lisa Fugard, who, with Courtney B. Vance, co-stars in the New York Theater Workshop production at the Perry Street Theater.
''I wrote it with them in mind, hoping that they would take the roles,'' said the 57-year-old playwright (in photograph with his daughter), who is directing the play here, as he did its premiere production at the Market Theater in Johannesburg earlier this year.
But, he said, ''Both Lisa and I realized we were venturing into enormously dangerous territory. She is an emerging actress in her first major role, and what a responsibility for her to carry - the success of her father's play. If anything had gone wrong it could have had terrible consequences both for her career and for our relationship, which is very deep. She said she had to trust me completely, and she did, and from a potentially Oedipal situation we've developed a simple professional relationship between a director and a young actress.''
The 27-year-old actress, who has lived in the United States since 1980, has had some small roles in Off Off Broadway productions and soap operas. She said that at first she was ''sick at the thought'' of working with her father. ''It absolutely terrified me. I was afraid of being in a rehearsal room with someone who knew me so well - I wasn't sure I would allow myself to open up. But I had read the play and wanted to do the part, and when he told me that John would be playing Mr. M.''- the teacher who brings the white girl and the black student together - ''I couldn't pass it up.''
The actual process of being directed by her father was easy and direct, perhaps, she said, because ''I'm old enough now not to be connected to him in all sorts of complicated teen-age ways. Sometimes I'd look at him and think, oh, my God, that's my father, but I had to put that out of my head.''
''I had long wanted to bring John and Lisa together in the theater,'' said Mr. Fugard. ''John has known Lisa since she was very young and would bounce on his knee. That they can perform together in a play like this that tries to get at the challenges of being a South African - as they both are - is a wonderful act of defiance. It shows that you can beat the system.''
 
- Jan Benzel

GRAPHIC: Courtney B. Vance and John Kani in Athol Fugard's ''My Children, My Africa'' (Gerry Goodstein); Athol Fugard and his daughter, Lisa Fugard (Martha Swope)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MY CHILDREN, MY AFRICA (PLAY)

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (94%); AFRICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); LIBERALISM (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); 

PERSON: WREN, CHRISTOPHER S; KANI, JOHN ATHOL HAROLD LANNIGAN FUGARD (56%); 



462 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: PROSPECTS;
Why Gold Is So Bright

BYLINE: By JOEL KURTZMAN

 BODY:
Gold prices have risen sharply since September, from about $360 an ounce to $425 an ounce in early December before falling back to $408.25 at the close on Friday. Are we poised for another bull market in gold? Four precious metals analysts offer their views.
 
Vahid Fathi
Vice president, Prescott, Ball & Turben Inc., Cleveland.
When gold has consolidated itself so it has a solid base at $400 an ounce, then its next move will be to $425. This will occur in the first quarter. But over the long term, prices will be sharply higher. 
The key catalyst for the price of gold moving upward has been its price in foreign currencies. Western Europe is closer to Eastern Europe than we are and it feels the dramatic changes. The price of gold in Swiss francs, West German marks and in Japanese yen is now moving upward after declining in those currencies since 1980. This is an important factor. No one should consider it a bull market for gold if only the price in dollars goes up. It has to rise in the other currencies as well.
 
Frederick R. Demler
Metals economist, Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.
Gold will reach higher levels in the first quarter of the new year. We think it will get to between $445 and $450 an ounce in the first quarter. We think a recession will occur in the United States next year and gold usually hits its high before a recession.
The fundamentals have improved for gold since last September. The world's finance ministers met at the International Monetary Fund and World Bank and agreed that the dollar was too high. The economy is showing weakness, which has led to an easing of interest rates and that is good for gold. Volatility in the equities market has meant that there has been a shift from equities to gold. Also, the Japanese Government now allows insurance companies that don't sell life insurance to have up to 2 percent of their portfolios in gold. This is bullish.
 
James R. Steel
Metals analyst, Refco Inc.
Gold will reach $450 an ounce over the next month or so. I think it will hold that level reasonably well. There is enough demand to keep it at that level for some time.
Next year, 10 percent less gold will be mined than this year and this year 10 percent less gold was mined than last year. The most easily accessible supply has already been tapped.
There is a school of thought that says the Soviet Union will get into worse economic trouble and sell its gold. I think this is unlikely. The Soviet Union will get ample credits from the World Bank and the I.M.F., so it won't have to sell its gold. This is the bullish side.
On the bearish side, this is the era of deflation, not inflation. Japan does not have strong inflation, nor does any European country, except Britain. As far as interest rates go, I don't think they will come down to the point where there is a bullish sentiment for gold.
 
Bette Raptopoulos
Metals analyst, Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.
I expect gold to be at $450 an ounce by February. It could go even higher if the situations in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union intensify.
Gold began to move higher when the dollar fell and interest rates eased. I expect interest rates to ease further, reflecting a slower economy. The sharp sell-off in the stock market last October moved fund managers to include gold in their portfolios. Also the Japanese have been buying bullion.
There is a credible view that the Soviet Union, the second-largest gold producer, may use gold to support the ruble. This will mean that it will not sell gold and prices will go higher.
The down side for gold would be if there were a strong improvement in the economy and firmer interest rates. This in turn would firm the dollar. However, turmoil in the Soviet Union remains the dominant bullish factor for gold.

GRAPHIC: Graph of gold price, London weekly close, Jan.-Dec. 1989 (Source: Interactive Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (63%); SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (63%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); 

COMPANY: REFCO INC (63%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); GOLD MINING (79%); DEFLATION (78%); INSURANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); LIFE INSURANCE (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 



463 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2711 words

HEADLINE: Arms Makers Gird for Peace

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS

 BODY:
WAR is a dirty business. But for makers of guns, tanks and planes, it is a profitable one.
Now, with the cold war coming to an end, a new age is upon those nations that pointed weapons at each other and the companies that make the weapons. Gone is the day when America's military contractors could count on a steady stream of Government projects to fatten the bottom line. For them, there is a new battle - a fight for profits in an environment where, unfortunately, peace is bad for their business.
Here, at the General Dynamics Corporation, the nation's No. 2 military supplier, this is a time of intense soul-searching. ''As individuals, we are extremely thrilled by the recent peace initiatives,'' said Stanley C. Pace, chief executive of the company, which makes the Air Force's F-16 ''Fighting Falcon,'' the Navy's nuclear-powered Trident submarine and the Army's M1 Abrams tank. But from a business perspective, the situation is far less thrilling. Mr. Pace speaks openly about downsizing, layoffs and possible mergers - not only for General Dynamics but for the entire industry. ''We've all come from smaller companies,'' Mr. Pace said. ''We can all go back to being smaller companies.'' 
They actually may have no choice. In response to reduced world tensions and to domestic fiscal pressures, Defense Secretary Richard B. Cheney last month proposed that deep budget cuts be made, which by some estimates could reduce military spending by 40 percent or more by the end of the decade. Clearly, the nation's military industry will be very different from what it is today. By all calculations, it will be significantly smaller, and getting there will be painful. Some military contractors will survive. Some will not. Some will merge and some will be taken over. And many will become shadows of their former selves.
''For military contractors, it will be rag tag, rough and tumble and dog-eat-dog,'' said William Anders, an astronaut and former Textron Inc. executive who will become vice chairman of General Dnaymics next month and replace Mr. Pace in 1991. ''It's going to be a bloodletting and the guy with the most blood will win.''
Thanks to the cold war military buildup, General Dynamics and its arms-making brethren have become corporate giants. Some 85 percent of General Dynamics' $9.5 billion in annual sales comes from Government contracts. At Lockheed, it is 91 percent; at Northrop, 92 percent; at McDonnell Douglas, 64 percent, and at Martin Marietta, 85 percent. For some, dropping just one program can spell trouble. At the Grumman Corporation, where 90 percent of sales come from the Government, the proposed cancellation of the Navy F-14 will wipe out 20 percent of sales.
Because General Dynamics sells so broadly to all three branches of the service, it is a microcosm of military spending and a proxy for the industry. ''As the defense budget goes, so goes General Dynamics,'' said Lawrence J. Korb, a Brookings Institution director and a former assistant Defense Secretary. ''If the defense budget goes down by 50 percent, General Dynamics goes down by 50 percent. It's hard to see how they will escape.''
 
Stick to the Knitting
While hardly sanguine, the company argues that it is better situated than many competitors because of a conservative strategy charted several years ago. It decided not to extend its resources by undertaking acquisitions or risky or experimental military projects, as many have. Instead, it took a stick-to-the-knitting approach by diversifying among all branches of the service and by specializing in ''heartland'' weapons - bread-and-butter armaments that may well be needed even in the post-cold war era. ''We feel the Government will maintain heartland programs at some level,'' Mr. Pace said. ''That makes us more insulated from the cuts than our competition.''
For instance, General Dynamics believes the Government will still need M1 tanks, although fewer of them, that the SSN-21 ''Seawolf'' attack submarine will probably still be made, and that the Air Force will still need new F-16 fighter planes. It also expects programs still on the drawing board, like the Navy's A-14 advanced tactical aircraft to be funded at some modest level.
Yet even General Dynamics concedes that it may have to shrink to survive. ''Nothing says we have to be a $10 billion company,'' Mr. Pace said. ''We cut to fit. If we don't have business, we have to cut.''
Wall Street seems to respect that realism. ''General Dynamics looks at the future through gray-colored glasses,'' said Gary J. Reich, an analyst at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. ''Rose colored is optimistic. With gray, they don't see too far and what they see, they don't necessarily like.''
How individual contractors fare depends, in part, on where the budgetary ax falls and how they manage with what is left. ''Some companies will do very well, said John F. Lehman Jr., a managing director of Paine Webber Inc. and a former Navy Secretary. ''But the larger number will face a very bleak future.'' Said Robert Paulson, a director at McKinsey & Company: ''Picture a defense budget that is a third smaller. You can't keep the defense industry alive on two-thirds rations. Something's got to give.''
That simple fact raises a host of public-policy questions: Are there national interests to consider in determining which contractors survive? Should the Government step in to ''protect'' critical technologies, even at the expense of propping up inefficient manufacturers? Who should decide which companies survive - the Government, Congress or free-market forces? Is a smaller industry a weaker one? And do we, as a nation, want to fund military contractors at minimal production levels to keep capacity in reserve, or can we no longer afford that luxury?
To some, the nation's military establishment is, in effect, undergoing deregulation. ''One could think of defense as the last industry to be deregulated,'' said Mr. Paulson of McKinsey. ''It will be affected the same as airlines, banking and trucking.''
 
New Targets
With Government budgets shrinking and the Pentagon less willing to pick up the contractor's development and manufacturing costs, these companies may have to look to new places for profits - to new markets overseas, to work that was once given out to subcontractors, and perhaps into entirely new lines of business. ''You expect that big companies will take market share from weaker, less well financed and less capable ones who made just pieces of tanks, ships and planes,'' said Joseph Campbell, an analyst at Paine Webber.
But no matter what strategy a contractor chooses, there will be problems. Ironically, military contractors are ill prepared to wean themselves from the comforting bosom of what many call ''Penatagon socialism.'' Despite the strength of their products and their gigantic size, military contractors are weak when it comes to playing by the rules of free-market capitalism. They complain about the stiff infighting for contracts. Still, they have operated in a rarefied climate that has insulated them from the rougher edges of real-world competition. After all, they must keep only one customer satisfied - one that, in industry lexicon, is simply referred to as ''The Customer.''
It is an unusual and forgiving customer: one that cares primarily about performance and little about price. It is a customer that has historically kicked in for research and development and picked up some of the manufacturing costs. If there were cost overruns, well, the customer picked up that tab, too.
As a result, military contractors are masters at superb engineering, but are less schooled in manufacturing with efficiency. ''The military will do anything for a 5 percent increase in speed or accuracy,'' said Eugene J. Carroll, the deputy director of the Center for Defense Information and a retired Rear Admiral. ''Improved performance has justified massive cost increases and this makes contractors ill suited to compete with products made at a reasonable price.''
What is more, this performance orientation breeds conservatism and risk-aversion. Victory, for contractors, comes from sticking to specifications - not from challenging them.
''The Pentagon tends to ruin a company for commercial business,'' said Mr. Lehman, the former Navy Secretary. Its demands, he said, ''drive very, very high overhead rates that make military contractors, generally, not competitive in the commercial environment. Most companies will have a difficult time because they don't have the management to shift the culture from Pentagon socialism to commercial competitiveness.''
Outside the protected Pentagon environment, however, competition is likely to be cutthroat. For instance, Europe, the largest foreign market, may turn out to be more of a competitor than a customer. Already, in anticipation of the lowering of trade barriers in 1992, many European nations - most notably, West Germany - are consolidating and strengthening their weapons-related companies. They will compete with American contractors in the global marketplace - as well as at a budget-conscious Pentagon. This also comes at a time when NATO nations are expected to cut back on military expenditures because of tapering global tensions.
 
A Sharp Turn
Diversification is equally problematic. Shifting from tanks to toasters is not easy, as the industry's dismal record of switching to consumer goods attests. Take, for instance, Grumman's ill-fated forays into buses, solar energy and refrigerators. ''Government contractors are quasi-utilities,'' said Mr. Reich of Shearson. ''Just because the Government changes its requirements doesn't mean they could turn around and instead of tanks, make ice cream blenders. They are really stuck.''
Besides, it is politically unwise for military contractors to abandon defense projects too quickly. ''The industry is being held hostage,'' said Mr. Paulson of McKinsey. ''Diverting the best talent and money away from defense will not get you any more defense business.'' Mr. Korb of Brookings agrees: ''The industry can't antagonize the folks in the Pentagon. They don't want the Pentagon to say that they are giving up.''
None of the huge contractors, of course, will go out of business tomorrow. There will be much political wrangling in Washington before specific programs are cut. Besides, even with the cuts, the Government's annual expenditure for military procurement is expected to be around $150 billion - still an enormous sum.
''General Dynamics has a unique collection of capabilities, which, in light of the fairly uninspiring record in terms of humanity's ability to maintain civil discourse, is likely to be needed,'' said Wolfgang Demisch, an analyst with UBS Securities.
Still, General Dynamics has already cut about 400 of its 100,000 workers because of an order slowdown. And it plans to cut its $400 million research budget. Mr. Pace has been traveling to Washington to stress the importance, from a defense standpoint, of continuing to improve the design and manufacturing of military hardware, even at low levels. ''We cannot allow our technological capability or our production ability to go to zero or the U.S. might not have them when we need it,'' he said.
The company, after all, is vulnerable. For instance, should the Government sign a strategic arms limitation pact, it would need fewer nuclear warheads and submarines to carry them. The Navy might need only 16 or 17 Trident submarines, a big-ticket product for General Dynamics, instead of some two dozen.
The company is phasing out production of the SSN-688 Los Angeles class attack submarine, a big money-loser. Submarines accounted for about 16 percent of the company's revenues, but for only about 6 percent of its operating earnings. While it hopes to do better with its successor, the SSN-21 ''Seawolf'' attack submarine, this product may also be ill fated. Mr. Pace expects the Seawolf to be built, but at a rate of perhaps two or so a year instead of four or more. The ''Seawolf'' is an offensive weapon, designed to go under the polar ice cap to attack. But if the Russians make fewer ballistic submarines, there is less need for attack submarines to go after them.
The most profitable product in the company's arsenal is the F-16 ''Fighting Falcon,'' an Air Force attack aircraft. In 1988, the F-16 accounted for about 60 percent of the company's operating profits - or $318 million - and 35 percent of its revenues. But the F-16's operating earnings are being eaten away by the high cost of meeting the requirements of foreign buyers and by the many versions of the plane available. Worse, orders for F-16 are expected to decline.
In development are two other planes whose prospects are equally chancy. One is the Navy's A-12 advanced tactical aircraft, a heavy carrier-based plane that can drop bombs. Mr. Pace said he expects it to be financed at modest levels, although some analysts disagree. The other is the ATF advanced tactical fighter for the Air Force, a ground-based plane that drops missiles on land sites and is the successor to the F-15. General Dynamics has joined Boeing and Lockheed to develop the ATF in competition with another team in a ''win or lose'' process. So far, the company has spent about $200 million to develop the ATF, with no assurance it will get any of it back.
The company makes the M1 Abrams tank, and has the only major tank-making operation in the West. But last year, the Army cut its M1 orders to 720 a year, from 840, forcing the company to seek new clients, in the Middle East, for example, where the terrain is suited for tank warfare.
For now, the company plans to stick to its current product line and not pursue acquisitions. Part of this is due to a deferred tax bill of $975 million, due over the next two years, that will use up free cash. Still, it is not saying no too emphatically. ''There are no obvious mergers, although something may arise,'' said Mr. Rogers, the company's president. ''We're not actively pursuing it. But we're not closing the door.''
Indeed, from General Dynamics' perspective, the future may not be all that bleak. Mr. Pace takes comfort in the company's $28 million backlog in Government orders, although he admits that many of these orders may get cancelled or stretched out.
And, Mr. Pace is proud of the role he says General Dynamics played in the current Soviet attitude. It was General Dynamics' ''Stinger'' lightweight shoulder-launched air-defense missiles that were used by Afghan rebels to knock out Soviet helicopters. Not only did a General Dynamics product perform well in the battlefield, Mr. Pace said, but the Soviet Union's defeat in Afghanistan helped soften its military posture.
Still, he doesn't thing this country has turned its back on so old an enemy. ''Some say these budget cuts are irreversible,'' Mr. Pace said. ''But I think nothing could be farther from the truth. Tiananmen Square proves that. The Soviet Union has all the military power its had for 70 years. All you need is some rat-a-tat like that and we're back 70 years.''
Others are more cautious. They argue that the Soviet Union is so weakened economically that it cannot pump money into military goods, no matter who is in power. ''If I were a defense contractor, '' said William Burnett, an analyst with Charles Rivers Associates, an economic consulting firm. ''I'd take these cuts about as seriously as I'd take the devil.''
 
AT A GLANCE: General Dynamics
All dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data.

 	 	 	Three months ended	 	 	 Oct. 1	1989	1988	 Revenues	$2,517,300	$2,285,200	 Net Income	76,500	 76,400	 Earnings per share	$1.83	$1.82	 	 	 	Year ended	 	 	 Dec. 31	1988	1987	 Revenues	$9,551,000	$9,412,000	 Net Income	379,000	 437,300	 Earnings per share	$9.03	 $10.26	
 	 	Total assets, Dec. 31, 1988	 $6,118,100	Current assets	3,635,800	Current liabilities	2,045,700	Long-term debt	974,900	Book value per share,	 	 Sept. 30, 1989	$49.00	Stock price, Dec. 14, 1989	 	 N.Y.S.E. consolidated close	46	Stock price, 52-week range	42 1/2-60 1/2	Employees, Dec. 14, 1989	100,000	Headquarters	St. Louis	
GRAPHIC: General Dynamic's Trident submarine; the M1 Abrams tank; the F-16 plane (pg. 1); General Dynamics' William Anders, Herbert Rogers and Stanley Pace (The New York Times/Bill Stover) (pg. 8); graphs compare sources of revenues and operating profits, 1988 (Source: Company reports); list ranks General Dynamics among top twelve defense contrators (Source: Defense Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GD (NYSE) (85%); NOC (NYSE) (80%); TXT (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (85%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (80%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (80%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (80%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (80%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (80%); NAICS333996 FLUID POWER PUMP & MOTOR MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS333611 TURBINE & TURBINE GENERATOR SET UNITS MANUFACTURING (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (85%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (80%); TEXTRON INC (63%); US AIR FORCE (56%); US NAVY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DEFENSE CONTRACTS MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE MFG (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); ARMS TRADE (89%); AIR FORCES (79%); ARMIES (79%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (76%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (76%); MERGERS (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); NAVAL VESSELS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (64%); BUDGETS (64%); PEACE PROCESS (55%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE DICK CHENEY (59%); 



464 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2255 words

HEADLINE: Persuading Americans To Save

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
POLITICIANS here finally appear to be waking up to what economists have been telling them: The long binge of overspending and undersaving by government, business and consumers threatens to depress living standards and reduce the nation to a second-rate economic force during the next decade. Already, there are symptoms, among them lagging productivity, slow wage growth, the sale of major assets to foreign investors, stubbornly high interest rates and the huge trade and budget deficits.
Now, the Government is pressing for some remedies. President Bush has pledged to ask Congress again to cut the tax on capital gains, which he argues would stimulate investment. And last week Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady outlined to the President's Economic Policy Council a new Family Savings Account, which would let families set aside as much as $5,000 a year. Depositors would receive no immediate tax deductions, but their interest income would be tax-free if the funds were left for at least 10 years. And to encourage corporate savings, the Treasury is considering more favorable tax treatment for dividends, and less favorable treatment for interest expenses. 
Members of Congress are also searching for new strategies, particularly to encourage investments in Individual Retirement Accounts. Some plans would permit the use of I.R.A. funds for education and first home purchases. Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Democrat from Brooklyn, plans to propose an I.R.A. that would allow taxpayers to take deductions on their returns first, then have until the end of the calendar year to make their contributions.
The challenge for policy makers is twofold: to persuade the public to delay some gratification and make some sacrifices, and to be sure that any new programs actually do promote savings while not bloating the budget deficit.
Except when the Japanese step in to finance America's borrowing by snapping up a well-known asset - buying an interest in Rockefeller Center, for example - anemic personal, corporate and government savings rates are difficult to dramatize on television. No crack-infested housing projects, no corrupt savings-and-loan executives; just charts and numbers showing the United States saving rate falling well below most of the world's other big free-market economies. ''When we are stacked up against our major trading partners, we are always down near the bottom,'' Robert R. Glauber, the Under Secretary of the Treasury for Finance, said.
To date, Washington's measures to reduce debt, like limiting the deductibility of consumer interest, appear wholly inadequate. Like the drug plague, the low savings rate shows signs of becoming one of those perennial problems that mock the pronouncements of politicians.
At one time, the nation seemed to take seriously Benjamin Franklin's maxims about thrift. (''A penny saved is twopence clear.'') But now, the savings rate has fallen so low, and the federal deficit has grown so large, that the country is saving just three cents out of every dollar earned. According to public opinion polls, consumers believe that consuming less would throw the economy into a recession.
Economists, liberal and conservative, tend to disagree. Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan calls the low savings rate ''the most important long-term issue, from an economic point of view, that has to be addressed by policy makers.'' He says that replacing consumer spending with more savings would not risk a recession.
 
Curbing Consumption
Many economists call for the nation to almost double its savings rate to 10 percent by the middle of the next decade. But they are skeptical about achieving this goal, calling most proposals either politically impossible or marginally effective. ''There are some things we can do around the edges, but don't expect any one thing to do a lot,'' said James W. Christian, chief economist for the United States League of Savings Institutions.
American overspending has become deeply engraved in both laws and customs. The tax codes, as every corporate raider or buyout artist knows, give greater incentives for borrowing than saving, taxing profits that are distributed as dividends but exempting interest payments. Personal and corporate credit are plentiful, and Madison Avenue easily turns luxuries into needs. Baby boomers are said to treat B.M.W.'s and Rolex watches as talismans, with spending habits that Budget Director Richard G. Darman calls ''now nowism.''
The urge to overspend is actually nothing new. In 1899, Thorsten Veblen, the economist, observed the leisure class and commented, ''The standard of expenditure which commonly guides our efforts is not the average, ordinary expenditure already achieved; it is an ideal of consumption that lies just beyond our reach.'' Now, a much broader leisure class has extended its reach with Mastercard and Visa.
The argument that consuming too much today means consuming less tomorrow may seem paradoxical, but the economics are straightforward. Savings, whether deposited in banks or invested in stocks and bonds, give businesses the funds to invest in research, plants and equipment. Low savings limits these funds and pushes interest rates up. Businesses have to borrow less, forgoing new investment and allowing productivity to decline compared with well-funded foreign competitors. As companies become less profitable and competitive, they are less able to keep their workers or pay them rising wages.
To find capital, corporations then have to look overseas. ''It was necessary for the United States to incur nearly $120 billion in foreign debt last year even to attain a level of plant and equipment investment per worker that was half of Japan's investment rate,'' Lawrence H. Summers, an economics professor at Harvard University, said.
In return for their investments, foreigners often take ownership positions in these companies. ''People are worried about the Japanese buying Rockefeller Center. Well, if the average American saved the way the average Japanese does, there would be plenty of domestic capital for American companies and banks to bid for the Rockefeller Centers,'' Mr. Schumer, the Brooklyn Democrat, said. The United States was not always one of the world's lowest savers. According to the Federal Reserve Board, the American personal savings rate from 1870 to 1910 was close to 20 percent, while the rate in Japan and Germany was 15 percent and Britain, its pre-eminence fading, was close to 10 percent.
American savings hit a post-World War II low of 3.1 percent in 1947, as consumers who had put away more than 20 percent of their income during the war went on a buying spree. But then the rate steadily recovered, reaching 9.4 percent in the early 1970's. A long decline began in the second half of the decade, plunging to a 40-year low of 3.2 percent in 1987. Part of the drop may have been generational, as baby boomers married, had families and bought homes, economists say. Since 1987, the rate has edged up to about 5 percent, but economists point to factors like reduced auto sales and doubt there is any substantial reversal under way.
High spending has been fueled by feelings of wealth and security. The economy has been expanding for much of the decade. Pension funds and government social programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and workers' compensation, have given consumers a sense that they have no need to save for emergencies or retirement. ''I am not against Social Security and health insurance, but you have to understand that if the Government is going to give you everything you want, why save to get it for yourself?'' Joseph A. Grundfest, a commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission, asked.
Other major industrialized countries have seen their personal savings levels fall, but not as much as the United States. From 1973 to 1988, while the United States rate fell from 9.4 percent to 4.4 percent, West Germany's rate fell from 13.9 percent to 12.6 percent, Japan's from 20.4 percent to 15.2 percent and Canada's from 10.7 percent to 8.7 percent. These other countries encourage savings through lower taxes on corporate dividends, interest income and capital gains.
Mild prescriptions for healthier savings in the United States may be easy to come by, but strong medicine is unpopular. Consider the rise in mortgage debt, one of the major reasons savings declined during the 1980's. Although owners' equity in their homes counts as savings, downpayments by first-time homebuyers have been shrinking as a percentage of purchase prices. Congress has limited the deductibility of interest on mortgages for second homes, but tougher restrictions on mortgage interest and home equity loans, or higher required downpayments, are politically unpalatable.
The first challenge Washington faces is to bring down the budget deficit. ''The real savings problem is the Government absorption of savings,'' Edward F. McKelvey, a senior economist at Goldman, Sachs & Company, said. ''In the 1980's, it had clearly absorbed half the savings pool. So you've got to deal with the deficit.''
The Government's borrowing raises interest rates and makes the United States more dependent on foreign investors. But Treasury officials admit they have no new ideas on balancing the budget beyond hoping for a ''peace dividend'' from defense cuts and letting the Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction goals go into effect.
 
Discouraging Debt
To encourage investment, President Bush has said he considers a capital gains tax cut essential. The Treasury Department, with a task force set to report on savings issues this spring, wants corporations to rely more heavily on equity financing than on debt. The department might propose giving businesses credit for taxes shareholders pay on stock dividends, while slashing the interest expenses that companies could write off.
The real savings push, many policy makers and economists agree, will have to come from the middle class. This quest inevitably leads to consideration of renewed, expanded I.R.A.'s. - a condition Democrats are likely to set in return for approving a capital gains tax cut. Other new incentives might include the Family Savings Accounts under discussion at the White House last week. Lawmakers say action is much more likely this year than last. ''The trade-off of a Republican desire to reduce capital gains is not likely to be a Democratic tax increase, but a tax decrease in the form of sweetening the I.R.A. provisions,'' Representative Jim Leach, Republican from Iowa, said.
Families with more than $50,000 in taxable income lost their entire I.R.A. deductions for their contributions as part of the tax reform package in 1986. Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady has come out in favor of a proposal by Republican Senators William V. Roth Jr. of Delaware and Bob Packwood of Oregon to restore this benefit for almost everyone - except that the deductions would be allowed when funds are withdrawn from the I.R.A., not when they are deposited. Advocates say this approach would not drain current Treasury revenues and might attract investors who fear higher tax rates in the future.
Among Democrats, Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas, chairman of the Finance Committee, has proposed expanding I.R.A. deductibility so that families earning more than $50,000 could write off up to half of their contributions. Mr. Bentsen would also permit I.R.A.'s to be used for first-time home purchases and education.
In the House, Mr. Schumer plans to introduce a carrot-and-stick I.R.A. that would let taxpayers take $2,000 in deductions and then give them the rest of the calendar year to save enough for the actual contributions. Those who then failed to contribute would be hit with back taxes plus interest and a 40 percent penalty on the taxes due. The penalty would be waived in cases of lost jobs or serious illness. And, as under Mr. Bentsen's plan, I.R.A.'s could finance homes and education.
Mr. Schumer, a leading member of the House Banking Committee, says that providing the deduction up front would give the middle class a strong new incentive. ''The aim here is really to force people to save,'' he said, ''make it so that once they enter into the agreement, it is very costly to get out.''
 
A New Surge in Saving?
Not all economists worry about the savings rate. Some argue that baby boomers will soon realize the need to save for retirement and their childrens' education. ''I think the boomers are going to surprise everbody,'' Edward Yardeni, the chief economist for the Prudential-Bache Securities Corporation, said. ''They were ahead of schedule in terms of consumption, and they will also be ahead of schedule in terms of savings. As they approach their 40's, they will have passed the material stage and probably own everything they want to own.'' He argues against Government incentives. ''The demographics all by themselves will push the savings rate up without assistance from macroeconomic policy.'' He points to the recent upturn in the savings rate as a possible indicator of this trend.
Though other economists expect baby boomers to save somewhat more as they age, few are as optimistic as Mr. Yardeni. The initiative for higher savings, Professor Summers says, must come from the Government.
''The U.S. saved more before World War II than the Japanese,'' he said. ''Our genes have not changed and Japanese genes have not changed since then. But they have changed their policies and we haven't.''

GRAPHIC: Nicholas Brady (The New York Times/Jack Manning); Alan Greenspan (The New York Times/Micahel Geissinger); Charles Schumer (United Press International); Robert Glauber (The New York Times/Lori Grinker) (pg. 9); graph of personal savings rate, 1941-Sept. 1989 (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis) (pg. 1); graph of net personal savings as percent of disposable income in leading industrial countries, 1980-1988 (Source: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: SAVINGS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX TAXES & TAXATION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); FAMILY (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (76%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (76%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); TAX LAW (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); EDUCATION FUNDING (67%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); NASH, NATHANIEL C GEORGE W BUSH (77%); CHARLES SCHUMER (59%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 



465 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS FORUM: IMPROVING THE WORK FORCE;
Competitiveness Begins at School

BYLINE: By DAVID KEARNS; David T. Kearns is chairman of Xerox Corporation

 BODY:
AMERICAN businessmen must be smarting from the Japanese critique of our industrial and educational systems made as part of Japanese-American trade negotiations. I know that I am. If ever a challenge was issued to American educators and business people, this was it. Without subtlety, the Japanese told us that we are not likely to be competitive in the world economy of the future because we are failing to educate our youth.
The typical Japanese student goes to school 240 days a year while the average American youngster goes 180 days, and is exposed to a much less rigorous curriculum. Ninety-six percent of the Japanese students arrive at their first job having earned a high school diploma, which is the equivalent of a four-year degree from an American college. Japan, our major international competitor, has the best qualified work force in the world. Is it any wonder that Japan, with almost no natural resources, has become an economic miracle? 
The Japanese deliberately created a school system designed to advance their national interests and the well-being of their citizens; we must do the same. Business, which is spending more than $25 billion each year on remedial training for new employees, is doing the ''product recall'' work of our schools.
People in business who have been critics of public education, like myself, now realize that they must accept responsibility by suggesting ways to make the system work. Members of the Business Roundtable, which consists of the chief executives of 200 of America's largest corporations, are volunteering to form partnerships with the governors of each state. The objective is to dramatically improve our schools by the year 2000. There is no higher priority for business than this.
Dennis Doyle, senior research fellow at the Hudson Institute, and I have put forth a six-point plan to radically change the public education system in the United States. In brief, it calls for the following:
* Restructuring - Every public school district with 2,500 or more children would reorganize into a year-round system. Schools would be free to implement new teaching methods. Principals and teachers would have academic autonomy.
* Choice - Children would be able to attend any public school in their district. Teachers would not be bound to a specific school. States would insure a school's performance by testing students annually. Schools that persist in poor performance would get new management or be closed. States would spend equally on comparable children. Racial balance would be maintained.
* Professionalism - Teachers' undergraduate degrees would be in academic subjects - not education - with one added year stressing classroom teaching. Salaries would be based on performance and longevity. Teachers should create a national certification board along the lines recommended by the Carnegie Forum on Education and the Economy, a public policy research group.
* Standards - All students would be expected to master the basic skills that would allow them to function easily in our society. Just as it is the teacher's job to teach, it is the student's job to learn - no promotions for students without performance.
* Values - Schools would teach the ethical and democratic principles that are the foundation of our society. Our children should understand the great documents of American citizenship and the moral and religious basis of their creation.
* Federal Responsibility - Public education is a $150 billion-a-year business, but the Federal Government spends only $100 million on research to support it; it should spend more. College loans to student-teachers should be forgiven for specializing in critically needed skills or for teaching in hardship areas. The Federal Government should pay for Chapter One, a remedial math and reading program, and Head Start.
SOME people, on hearing this plan, have said that we can't expect academic performance from poor kids, or those from broken homes. A number of school districts have exploded this theory by succeeding in very difficult circumstances, including District 13 in Brooklyn's Bedford Stuyvesant section. It is frightening when people say we cannot educate everybody.
Improving our schools is not just another national priority that competes with the trade and Federal budget deficits. We must understand that adequate education is the eventual solution to these problems. Business leaders must show the way by devoting their energies and resources to seeing that this happens.
Without an educated populace we cannot have a strong economy. Without a strong economy our democracy will be at risk. Perhaps Walter Lippman said it best: ''No amount of charters, direct primaries or short ballots will make a democracy out of an illiterate people.''

GRAPHIC: David T. Kearns (The New York Times/Steve Miller)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (54%); BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (76%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (76%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); PRODUCT RECALLS (51%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (51%); 

PERSON: KEARNS, DAVID T; DOYLE, DENNIS



466 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS FORUM: IMPROVING THE WORK FORCE;
Fixing the Schools Is Not Enough

BYLINE: By AMITAI ETZIONI; Amitai Etzioni is University Professor at George Washington University, director of the Center for Policy Research and author of ''The Moral Dimension.''

 BODY:
PLANS to reform our schools tend to overlook the fact that about half of our youngsters grow up in families that are not viable from an educational viewpoint. Frequent divorces, a bewildering rotation of boyfriends and parents who come home from work exhausted both physically and mentally, have left many homes with a tremendous parenting deficit. Instead of providing a stable home environment and the kind of close, loving supervision good character formation requires, many child care facilities, grannies, and baby sitters simply insure that children will stay out of harm's way.
As a result, personality traits essential for the acquisition of specific skills like math, English and various vocational skills are often lacking. Children come to school without self-discipline and they cannot defer gratification. Nor can they concentrate or mobilize themselves to the tasks at hand. 
Many studies find students deficient in math or English skills. This does not concern such advanced matters as whether students can craft a powerful essay or analyze a calculus problem. At issue is the ability to do arithmetic and write clear memos. Close examination of what is required points in one direction: the elementary knowledge involved can be taught quickly becasue it entails rather simple rules. The rest is self-discipline and adhering to the rules without jumping to conclusions.
Character formation has traditionally been viewed as a family matter, while the various commissions studying our nation's educational needs see schools as their purview. Also, cognitive deficiencies in areas like reading comprehension are more readily measured and less controversial than character defects, like the inability to delay gratification or concentrate on tasks. Mainstream psychology also has been highly cognitive in its outlook. Since the 1960's, it has tended to deal with skills rather than personalities. Still, studies lend support to the thesis that one needs to prepare the vessel before it can be loaded with skills and specific knowledge.
One of the best bodies of data regarding character formation was collected by James Coleman and his colleagues at the University of Chicago. The data show that children who study well also have well-developed characters. The youngsters doing well in high-performance schools have two main attributes: they do quite a bit of homework and they relate positively to their schools. Homework is the giveaway cue; those who can do a great deal of it, largely unsupervised, have acquired self-discipline. And, students need to respect their teacher and see their assignments as meaningful.
Several other studies reach similar conclusions. But the strongest evidence is found in the success of all-encompassing programs like the Conservation Corps, and some of the drug treatment programs. These programs take youngsters that often are disoriented, lacking in motivation and skills and develop their psychic stamina and their ability to mobilize and make commitments. Then the acquisition of specific skills becomes relatively easy.
Beyond being a prerequisite for good study habits, self-discipline is essential for making an employee show up for work regularly, be responsible for the quality of his or her production and take initiative. It is the basis of the work ethic.
HOW may one enhance the much neglected development of a child's character? It is important to start early. Companies would be serving their long-term interests by offering their employees (mothers and fathers) more leave in the first two years of the child's life. Parents ought to be advised that a premature emphasis on cognitive achievements and neglect of human development is self-defeating. One presupposes the other.
Recognizing that such a transformation in child care policy is unlikely, and that many parents probably will continue to spend relatively little time developing their child's character, the schools must step in. Schools ought to start earlier, say at age 4, and be open longer during the day and into the summer to make up for some of the lost parenting.
Resources must be shifted from the top-heavy end of the educational structure to early education. Currently we often prepare youngsters poorly in primary schools, mistrain them in high school, and then graduate them with poor working habits. But it is much more effective, from an economic viewpoint and a human one, to help young people learn things right the first time around.
If business leaders seek an active role in educational reform, they should concentrate on two related fronts: encourage character-formation before skill acquisition, and stress investment in the early years versus later ones.

GRAPHIC: Amitai Etzioni (The New York Times/Paul Hosefros)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (72%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); HOMEWORK (89%); PARENTING (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); MATHEMATICS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CHILD CARE (76%); CALCULUS (74%); STUDENT DISCIPLINE (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); 

PERSON: ETZIONI, AMITAI (PROF)



467 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 3, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS FORUM: THE PEACE DIVIDEND;
What to Do With the Cold War Money

BYLINE: By SEYMOUR MELMAN; Seymour Melman is professor emeritus of industrial engineering at Columbia University, and chairman of the National Commission for Economic Conversion and Disarmament in Washington.

 BODY:
THE idea of a ''peace dividend'' first surfaced in 1969. A Cabinet Coordination Committee was set up to report to President Lyndon B. Johnson on what the Federal Government should do with its savings when the War in Vietnam finally ended. The committee proposed that the Federal Government dedicate $39.7 billion a year from its savings - in 1969 dollars - for the upkeep of the infrastructure.
The peace dividend was to provide money for roads, clean air, education, housing and foreign economic aid. But the war in Vietnam dragged on into the 1970's and the political energies needed to realize a peace dividend were exhausted. As a result, President Johnson's plans were never implemented and critical areas of our infrastructure, manufacturing sector and educational system fell into disrepair. 
With the end of the cold war - and a desire to terminate the 46-year-old arms race - there is once again the possiblity of a peace dividend.
Half of all Federal tax dollars go to the Pentagon. These large expenditures have hurt the competitive position of the United States and have kept the level of investment in the civilian economy, as a share of gross national product, lower than in Europe or Japan. For example, in 1983, for every $100 we spent on civilian capital formation, including new factories, machines and tools, we spent another $40 on the military. In West Germany, for every $100 spent on civilian investment, the military received only an additional $13. And in Japan, for every $100 spent on civilian investment, a mere $3 was spent on the military. Therefore these countries were able to spend more on their civilian needs.
As a result of years of neglect, our nation's infrastructure is failing to support a modern industrial society. Examples of the decay are everywhere. In New York City alone two water mains rupture every day. The scale of the problem is vast: estimates for repairing our nation's infrastructure - its roads, bridges, highways, waterways and so forth - are between $3 trillion and $5 trillion. The bill would have been far less had we been able to spend President Johnson's peace dividend.
Some of these repairs are the responsibility of our municipal and state governments, but a large part is the responsibility of the Federal Government. According to estimates prepared by the National Commission for Economic Conversion and Disarmament, a nonprofit research group, if we were to restore the nation's infrastructure , the Federal Government's share of the total would be more than $165 billion a year. This amount can be made available from savings from ending the cold war.
From 1947 to 1987, according to the Federal Government's own estimates, the United States spent $7.6 trillion on the military, a sum roughly equal to the total value of the nation's plant and equipment, plus the value of its civilian infrastructure. This means that since 1947, our military has used up resources sufficient to rebuild nearly everything that is manmade in the United States.
The military budget represents an enormous capital fund that could be put to productive civilian use. Military spending is 6 percent of G.N.P., but it pays for the services of 25 to 30 percent of all our nation's engineers and scientists and accounts for 70 percent of all Federal research and development money, $41 billion in 1988. These are resources that can be far more productive if used in the civilian sectors of the economy.
As a result of our military expenditures, by the close of the 1970's, the United States was no longer a first-class industrial economy with respect to productivity growth, research and development, the quality of infrastructure, average wages, competitiveness and standard of living. From this second-rate condition, the United States is headed for further decline. And if we become a third-rate industrial economy, we will lack forever the means of production necessary to repair our defiencies.
MANY barriers remain before we can reap the peace dividend and restore our nation to first-rate economic status. The cold war ideological and institutional systems remain in place and continue to influence our Government's leadership. For example, the central administrative offices of the Department of Defense has a staff of 120,000 and controls more than 35,000 prime contracting companies. Such managerial organizations do not readily relinquish decision-making power. And many members of Congress have become accustomed to functioning as virtual marketing managers for military companies, bases and laboratories in their districts.
That is why deliberate planning for conversion from a military to a civilian economy has become an indispensable requirement for obtaining and utilizing the peace dividend. Without a highly decentralized and mandatory two-year planning requirement, conversion to a civilian economy will fail.
To realize a peace dividend it is essential to give close attention to the proposed Defense Economic Adjustment Act (H.R. 101) sponsored by Representative Ted Weiss, Democrat of New York. This bill mandates a decentralized planning process in every large defense base and in our national laboratories and factories as well. It also includes the retraining of military engineers and managers to insure a competent changeover to civilian production. The bill encourages the preparation of concrete plans to implement a peace dividend. A serious peace-dividend program will raise Government revenues as a by-product of economic rebuilding.
Some voice the opinion that whatever savings accrue from a military wind-down should be used only to reduce the size of the Federal debt. That is a sure vote for a third-rate economy.

GRAPHIC: Graph outlines recommendations of National Commission for Economic Conversion and Disarmament on reallocation of military spending (Source: National Commisssion for Economic Conversion and Disarmament)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (93%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC CONVERSION & DISARMAMENT, NATIONAL COMMISSION FOR

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COLD WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); VIETNAM WAR (77%); BUDGETS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); MACHINE TOOLS (74%); ARMS RACE (73%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (70%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (67%); DISARMAMENT (60%); 

PERSON: MELMAN, SEYMOUR



468 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: Boston's Retail Doyennes Diverge

BYLINE: By FROMA HARROP; Froma Harrop is a business writer for The Providence Journal-Bulletin in Rhode Island.

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
VETERAN shoppers here say that except for the bargain basement at Filene's and the blueberry muffins at Jordan Marsh, New England's two stylish department stores - neighborly rivals for 136 years - seem indistinguishable.
Seven years ago, Jordan Marsh ran ads in newspapers and on television and radio to create its own distinct image. But shoppers shown advertisements with the stores' names cut out still could not tell which ad belonged to which store. Actually, Jordan Marsh sells housewares, a category Filene's gave up in the mid-1980's. But there is a far bigger difference between the Washington Street rivals these days, even though it may not be visible to Christmas shoppers jostling past the red poinsettias and white lights.
As the dust settles on an era of frenetic retailing takeovers, Filene's finds itself part of the robust May Department Stores Company of St. Louis, while Jordan Marsh remains mired in the troubles of the Toronto-based Campeau Corporation. A wide gap between the health of the parents' balance sheets could change the course of what has been a fairly evenly matched contest. 
''Filene's is in a better home,'' said Daniel D. Barry, a retailing analyst at Kidder Peabody in New York, who adds that May's long-term debt of $2.48 billion is modest for a retailer with $12 billion in sales. The company last year chalked up a profit of $534 million.
Filene's, which May bought last year, is forging ahead with a $125 million five-year plan of renovations and openings. With annual sales of $440 million, Filene's has just opened its 18th store at the Kingston Mall near Cape Cod. It plans other stores for Cambridge and Saugus, Mass.; Salem, N.H., and two other locations it will not name.
By contrast, Jordan Marsh, the bigger of the two chains with $750 million in annual sales, has put expansion plans on hold. It is spending much of its energy convincing nervous suppliers that its credit is good. The vendors' concerns center around Campeau's ability to continue payments on its $7.86 billion long-term debt, a burden that has overwhelmed a company with annual revenues of just under $9 billion. The debt load is the legacy of a two-year acquisition spree by its flamboyant Canadian namesake, Robert Campeau. IN 1986 he bought Allied Stores for $3.6 billion and two years later added Federated Department Stores of Cincinnati to his holdings for$6.6 billion. The purchases pushed the debt load of his retailing and real estate empire to more than $9.5 billion. As a result, Campeau last year doled out $877 million in financing costs, while bringing in operating profits of $881 million. After taxes, depreciation and paying preferred dividends, it ended the year with a loss of $34 million. Like other Campeau children, Jordan Marsh sees its revenues funneled into servicing massive debt payments.
In a cash crunch in September, the 26 Jordan Marsh stores, along with other Campeau retailers, were unable to pay their vendors' bills. As a result, many manufacturers froze deliveries of Christmas merchandise, and shipments resumed only after a $250 million loan from Olympia & York Developments Ltd., the Canadian real estate company and major Campeau shareholder. In return, Mr. Campeau surrendered control of his company's retail operations.
''We are well stocked and we are paying our bills,'' said Robert Gottlieb, Jordan Marsh's senior vice president for marketing. ''All it takes is a walk through our stores.''
The store's suffering comes through little fault of its own, retailing analysts say. ''Over the last six or seven years, Jordan Marsh had been undergoing a major upgrading of its stores,'' said Harris Gordon, senior manager at Touche Ross in Boston. ''At the operating level it has been run by smart retailers.''
But two years ago the chain had to cut more than 650 jobs, or 10 percent of its payroll, and purge much of middle management. Campeau's financial woes have held up construction of the $750 million Boston Crossing shopping center downtown, which would have included a rebuilt Jordan Marsh as well as a new Bloomingdale's, another Campeau chain currently up for sale.
Meanwhile, Jordan Marsh and other Campeau stores continue on a somewhat shaky basis with suppliers. The Credit Exchange, which evaluates retailers' ability to pay their bills, currently gives the Allied Stores a ''negative opinion,'' meaning that it is an unusually high credit risk. Although the exchange tends to be a stricter judge than the companies that actually grant credit, its dim view of the Campeau stores portends another cliffhanger in January, when many suppliers expect payments for goods shipped over the Christmas season.
In a quarterly statement filed Wednesday with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Campeau said an expected cash crunch might force Federated and Allied to seek court protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code.
Analysts say Jordan Marsh is now running unusually aggressive sales to assure full coffers for paying those bills, leaving Filene's little choice but to cut prices too.
Mr. Gottlieb denied that Jordan Marsh's pre-Christmas price-cutting was out of the ordinary, saying retailers around the country were adopting the practice. ''We are no more promotional than anybody else,'' he said.
AND Charlotte Brewer, Mr. Gottlieb's counterpart at Filene's, disputed the notion that Filene's was reacting to Jordan Marsh. ''Filene's has the same promotional strategy it had several months ago,'' she said. But, according to Mr. Barry at Kidder Peabody, ''there has been more promotion between those two than others in the country.'' And other Campeau stores are not slashing their prices as much, he said. ''The situation in Boston seems to be relatively unique.'' Another impetus behind the sharp markdowns is an economic slump in New England that has sent retail sales down 5.5 percent in Boston and 5.3 percent in Providence, R.I. in the last year. In contrast, retail sales nationally have risen 4.8 percent.
''This is a very bad time for everybody in New England,'' said Carmen Pastore, chairman of Longcraft, a jewelry maker and wholesaler in Wakefield, Mass., and a Jordan Marsh supplier. ''Most of the manufacturers are having problems with collections.''
In a twist of fate, Filene's itself was headed for the Campeau fold last year when the Canadian company bought its former parent, Federated. But as owner of both Jordan Marsh and Filene's, Campeau would have controlled too big a chunk of the New England market for regulators' comfort. Out of antitrust concerns, Campeau decided to shed one of them, and it turned out to be Filene's. Other chains sold include Bullock's, Foley's, I. Magnin, Brooks Brothers and Ann Taylor. Filene's Basement, a 25-store off-price chain that broke away from Filene's in 1984, was sold last year to a management group (the Boston store still has its original bargain basement). Analysts believe that Filene's is now in a stronger position than Jordan Marsh to squeak through tough times. ''The May Company has a reputation for keeping close control of its inventories,'' Mr. Barry said. ''If there is a shortfall of expectations from a weak economy, then Filene's would probably do better.''
Mr. Gordon at Touche Ross is more concerned about what could happen to Jordan Marsh five years from now should its capital shortage continue. In a market that has nearly stopped growing, retailers will be able to improve performance only by controlling costs and wresting market share from competitors by fine-tuning their merchandise for the local market.
Both will require expensive technology, like scanners, that help retailers keep a close eye on the movement of merchandise. ''The ability to invest in that kind of technology gives you an advantage,'' Mr. Gordon said. ''That is the area where capital is playing a role.'' One result of shuffling the retailing decks is that Filene's is becoming a bit more democratic. Retailers are talking about the ''MAYonnaissing'' of Filene's, referring to the addition of more moderately priced general merchandise. Ms. Brewer balks at the notion that her store is inching away from the cutting edge of fashion. Rather, she said, it is bringing in more types of shoppers. ''We have broadened our base,'' she said. ''We'll still not be as broad as Jordan Marsh.''

GRAPHIC: The Filene's and Jordan Marsh flagship stores are located together in downtown Boston (The New York Times/Jim Bourg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (94%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (78%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); ONTARIO, CANADA (70%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (70%); 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (94%); CAMPEAU CORP (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: FILENE'S, WM, SONS CO; MAY DEPARTMENT STORES CO; JORDAN MARSH STORES; CAMPEAU CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BOSTON (MASS)

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; INDUSTRY PROFILES RETAILERS (93%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (88%); REAL ESTATE (73%); TAKEOVERS (73%); SALES FIGURES (73%); PRINT ADVERTISING (72%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (72%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); DIVIDENDS (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); CHRISTMAS (54%); 

PERSON: HARROP, FROMA



469 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: WEEK IN BUSINESS;
The Trade Deficit Takes Off Again

BYLINE: By WILLIAM S. NIEDERKORN

 BODY:
The U.S. merchandise trade deficit widened sharply to $10.2 billion in October, the biggest imbalance in 10 months, as imports reached a record level. The Government also reported that inventories climbed four-tenths of a percent in October, to a seasonally adjusted $793.9 billion. In November, wholesale prices edged down a tenth of a percent and capacity utilization also was down a tenth of a point, to 82.7 percent. But industrial production inched up a tenth of a percent that month and retail sales rose eight tenths of a percent. Sales of U.S.-built cars plunged 28 percent in early December, however.
* The Columbia Savings and Loan Association's chairman and chief executive, Thomas Spiegel, said he would resign at the end of the year and set up a separate operation that would own the institution's ''junk bond'' portfolio. Government officials said tight restrictions were placed last month on Columbia, based in Beverly Hills, Calif., after new accounting rules forced it to recognize large losses in the value of the bonds. 
* Shearson Lehman Hutton and American Express announced a plan to raise cash for the brokerage firm by selling assets and issuing new stock and debt. After the announcement, Moody's Investors Service affirmed Shearson's debt ratings.
* Troubled real estate loans are causing heavy losses for bankers in the Northeast. With office vacancy rates now reaching 25 to 30 percent in places like central New Jersey and Stamford, Conn., and with many condominium developments still half empty after two years on the market, a growing number of developers are having difficulty paying off loans.
* GAF and its vice chairman, James T. Sherwin, were found guilty of trying to manipulate the stock of Union Carbide in 1986. The verdict, on all eight felony counts, was a victory for Federal prosecutors, who had been criticized for pressing a criminal rather than a civil case. Two previous efforts ended in mistrials. Defense lawyers intend to appeal.
* Campeau's American subsidiaries that own Bloomingdale's, Jordan Marsh and other national chains said they might have to file for bankruptcy protection. The subsidiaries, Federated Department Stores and Allied Stores, said in quarterly statements to the S.E.C. that they expected to run short of cash to make debt payments, possibly as soon as late January. Following the announcement, Heller Financial discontinued providing credit to Campeau's retail chains. Campeau also reported a loss of $105 million for the third quarter.
* The Dow Jones industrial average rose 8.11 points for the week, to 2,739.55. Yields fell slightly on the 30- year Treasury bond, to 7.84 percent, while short-term yields were up slightly. The dollar fell against all major currencies, and gold rose $2.10 an ounce on the week at the Comex, to $413.90.
* Steel subsidies are to be banned by 18 nations that together supply two-thirds of the steel imported by the U.S. The Administration disclosed agreements with the countries in announcing its renewal of a quota program for two and a half years that will keep imports at a level below 20 percent of U.S. steel sales.
* Miscellanea. President Bush acknowledged for the first time that the $50 billion bailout of the savings industry might not be enough . . . The S.E.C. and its French counterpart signed an agreement to cooperate on securities investigations . . . France said it would end all controls on foreign exchange on Jan. 1 . . . Chrysler significantly broadened the scope of its rebates and low-interest financing . . . G.M. said it would pay $500 million for 50 percent of Saab Automobile A.B. . . . Xerox filed suit against Apple Computer, accusing it of copyright misrepresentation in Apple's Macintosh and Lisa computers . . . Bear, Stearns is resuming index arbitrage for its own account . . . BellSouth terminated its pact to buy Lin Broadcasting . . . Integrated Resources reported a loss of more than $1 billion for its second quarter . . . U.S. Memories is scaling back its goals in order to continue working toward a cooperative venture to make memory chips . . . A Federal magistrate ruled that both Amgen and Genetics Institute have valid patents on a genetically engineered drug to combat anemia.

GRAPHIC: James T. Sherwin; graph of balance of trade, Nov. 1988-Oct. 1989 (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (72%); AXP (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (72%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (72%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (72%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (67%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); DIVESTITURES (75%); CREDIT BUREAUS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (74%); SAVINGS & LOANS (74%); WHOLESALE PRICES (73%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); CONDOMINIUMS (70%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); LAWYERS (67%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (67%); MISTRIAL (67%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (65%); OFFICE PROPERTY (65%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (65%); FELONIES (62%); EXECUTIVES (54%); 



470 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: Chile's Example

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Mr. Nathan P. Gardels is incorrect when he states that there is no evidence in the developing world that opening closed economies has resulted in improved living standards (''Perestroika Goes South,'' Nov. 12). During the 30 years prior to the rule of Gen. Augusto Pinochet, Chile pursued an import-substitution policy. The Government set tariffs at an average rate of 100 percent and imposed a variety of non-tariff barriers. General Pinochet eliminated non-tariff barriers and reduced tariffs to a flat 15 percent.
Chileans have responded to this economic liberalization by rapidly expanding their exports. At present, exports exceed 30 percent of Chile's gross national product. This percentage is almost three times higher than during the last decade of import substitution. Significant trade surpluses and employment opportunities have been generated.
 
STEVE H. HANKE
Professor of Applied Economics
Johns Hopkins University
 Baltimore, Nov. 22

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHILE (96%); UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (50%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (56%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHILE

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); 

PERSON: HANKE, STEVE H (PROF); GARDELS, NATHAN P



471 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: REVIEWING THE TROOPS;
The Military Math of Peace in Our Time

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
FOR four decades, the Pentagon has based its budgets, its strategy and its public relations largely on one premise: the Russians are coming. But now the Russians are going, and the Pentagon is experiencing the painful process of adjusting to the new military reality.
In the past year, the Soviet Union has begun to withdraw tanks, troops and airplanes from Europe unilaterally and to cut military spending. Moscow has also acquiesced in the decision by its East European allies to cut their military forces and has supported the opening of the Berlin wall. 
With political reforms sweeping Eastern Europe, Moscow's Warsaw Pact partners are increasingly unlikely to participate in any attack on Western Europe - a remote possibility in the first place. But while Soviet military capabilities are lessening, they are still formidable. The Pentagon's task is to take account of the Soviet retrenchments that have already occurred while planning for the more sweeping cuts that would be required by arms control agreements.
The challenge is not an easy one. Military planners tend to err on the safe side, and the Pentagon is torn between its customary caution and the need to respond to budget-related domestic pressure to cut military spending. Nonetheless, the Defense Department took some steps last week to adjust to the changing world.
First, the Pentagon disclosed that it would sharply scale back and dispense with the use of tanks in the largest of its annual military exercises in Europe. Then Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, endorsing a recommendation by the Air Force's Strategic Air Command, proposed to halt the round-the-clock flights of its Looking Glass command post, which would be used to direct strategic forces if the President and other leaders were killed in a surprise nuclear attack. The recommendation reflected the view within the Pentagon that the threat of a surprise Soviet attack is lessening.
President Bush rejected the Pentagon proposal, which some Administration officials seemed to think would create the perception that the United States was moving too fast to cut its military. The Pentagon plan also appeared to run counter to the thinking of Mr. Bush's national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft, who in the past has stressed the need to guard against the risk of a surprise nuclear attack.
 
The Reductions Begin
The dispute over the command post aside, more far-reaching changes in the American military are being planned. Army officials said last week, for example, that the service is planning to deal with the prospect of cuts in American and Soviet troops in Europe by reshaping itself into a fast-reaction force that would be based primarily in the United States. That prospect has drawn fire from the Marine Corps, which contends the Army's plans would overlap the Marines' mission.
The first major indication that the Soviet Union was reducing its forces came in December 1988, when Mikhail S. Gorbachev announced that Moscow would unilaterally withdraw about half of its tanks from Eastern European nations and make other cuts in its forces. Moscow said the trims were part of a larger plan to adopt a ''defensive'' structure that would not threaten the West.
Western analysts say that the unilateral cuts will indeed blunt Moscow's offensive strength, severely constraining its ability to launch a surprise attack, though they still leave the Soviet Union with a very powerful force.
Edward L. Warner 3d, an analyst at the Rand Corporation, told the House Armed Services Committee in September that the unilateral cuts announced by Mr. Gorbachev would indeed reduce Soviet combat power in Eastern Europe by about 20 percent. But Mr. Warner also cautioned that the remaining, revamped Soviet units would ''represent a highly versatile combat force that is equally capable of conducting modern offensive or defensive operations.''
In September, a further development called American military assumptions into question when United States intelligence experts concluded that the increased openness of Soviet society, Moscow's cuts in conventional arms and improved American intelligence-gathering would now give the Pentagon a month to three months of warning of a full-scale Soviet attack in Europe. For years, the Pentagon has assumed that it would have just 14 days' warning of a such an attack.
The new assessment of warning time has a potentially profound bearing on such decisions as whether the United States should spend billions on new planes or ships that would be used to move troops and equipment to Europe. It also bears on whether the Pentagon should try to make greater use of reserve units and less use of those on active duty.
But so far, Pentagon officials stress, no major military benefits have accrued to the West from the new policies in Moscow. A new East-West conventional arms agreement now under negotiation in Vienna would erase Moscow's traditional large advantages in ground forces.
But the American military faces the challenge of devising plans to project power around the world, and not just in Europe. Assessing global American responsibilities, members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff have told Mr. Cheney that they can live with the sizable cuts in spending over the next four years that are being considered but that any further reductions would undermine American security. Indeed, the chiefs have asserted that small after-inflation increases in military spending will be needed in the mid-1990's to maintain weapons modernization and personnel.
Mr. Cheney is studying reductions of about 5 percent in the current level of spending, after inflation, Pentagon officials have said. Until recently, the White House had projected a modest after-inflation increase over those years. The difference between the 1992-94 budgets the Administration had originally planned and those now under consideration is $180 billion. But military planning is not merely a matter of spending money. And the Pentagon, the President and the Congress must now agree on a new strategy for a new world.
Said Paul Wolfowitz, an Under Secretary of Defense, ''We are looking at revisiting a great many fundamental assumptions.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); WESTERN EUROPE (72%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (55%); US AIR FORCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ARMIES (89%); AIR FORCES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R DICK CHENEY (58%); 



472 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: The U.S. Stake in the Philippines

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: MANILA

 BODY:
THE rebel members of the Philippine armed forces who tried to overthrow President Corazon C. Aquino earlier this month made many political and tactical mistakes. But perhaps their biggest error was in thinking that the United States might remain neutral during a rebellion and support them if they prevailed.
The rebel soldiers' expectations turned out to be completely unrealistic. On Dec. 1, after rebel planes had bombed and strafed the presidential palace and military camps, President Bush ordered American warplanes to fly combat air patrols. Without firing a shot, they grounded the rebel air effort and doomed the coup attempt. Most of the military remained loyal to Mrs. Aquino even though some of the rebels' fellow soldiers were sympathetic. 
The intervention showed the extent of American determination to support democracy in the Philippines and Mrs. Aquino as the country's elected President. It also created a new atmosphere for negotiations on the future of United States military bases in the Philippines, expected to begin within a couple of months.
One factor in the evident overconfidence of the Philippine rebels was that they never expected the United States to intervene directly in a fight within the Philippine armed forces. The American bases have been considered an instrument of American global strategy, not a tool for influencing policy in the Philippines. Agreements on use of the bases expire on Sept. 16, 1991, and the terms for renewing them have become an issue here.
 
A Major Employer
Despite the undeniable military significance of the bases, the American view that they are indispensable has clearly changed in the last decade. Washington has hinted that it could relocate the bases if it really had to, and now, with the decline in tensions between Washington and Moscow, it is unclear whether the United States will try to justify the bases in the same terms. Last week, American officials said the Soviets were packing up MIG-23 fighter jets based at Cam Ranh Bay in Vietnam, in a move that could signal Soviet military cutbacks in Southeast Asia.
Polls of Filipino public opinion show there is support for retaining the bases. But many Filipinos also believe that American compensation for use of the bases should be increased. The United States armed forces are said to be the second largest employer here, after the national Government, providing jobs for 68,500 Filipinos and accounting for at least 3.5 percent of the gross national product.
Moderate politicians say the bases undermine Philippine sovereignty by fostering dependence, and a small but vocal anti-American faction sees them as a symbol of American imperialism. Critics of Mrs. Aquino say her acceptance of intervention during the coup weakened her ability to bargain with the United States. She denies that, but she has asked for a short postponement of talks about the bases, saying her Government will be too busy dealing with the aftermath of the rebellion.
Jovito R. Salonga, president of the Philippine Senate, said the United States has lost the support of the opposition Nacionalista Party, which once favored retaining the bases. Many party members now say the bases should be phased out because they permitted the intervention.
Mrs. Aquino, for her part, says she is keeping her options open. Her associates suggest that she might agree to continued operation of the bases in return for economic and political concessions from the Bush Administration. Within the constraints of a tight Federal budget, the Administration has shown itself willing to consider almost any request to accommodate so close a friend as Mrs. Aquino.

GRAPHIC: American jet fighters at Clark Air Base in the Philippines (Sygma/Allan Tannenbaum); map showing location of Clark Air Base and Subic Bay Naval Station, Philipoines; table outlines U.S. military spending in the Philippines, 1987 (Source: Department of Defense); THE WORLD

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); VIET NAM (77%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILIPPINES

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PHILIPPINES-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); COUPS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BOMBINGS (72%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 

PERSON: AQUINO, CORAZON C (PRES); PEAR, ROBERT GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



473 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
A Debate Over Access To U.S. University Research

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THANKS largely to American university research, Toshiba Inc. is developing a new technology for recording images on disks, the Toyota Motor Company is devising new engineering stress sensors, and the Asahi Chemical Company is computerizing its manufacturing processes.
These were among the recent payoffs to foreign companies from ''industrial liaison'' programs at top American universities, a recent Congressional study found. For an annual fee, corporations become members of these programs and thereby gain an early look at unpublished research and a chance to acquire exclusive rights to exploit patents held by the schools. Participants may have access to new research as much as a year or more before it is made public. 
In many if not most cases the research is paid for by the Federal Government. In recent years, foreign participation in these programs has increased, and lately, amid rising concern about American competitiveness, some in Government and industry have begun to question the practice of allowing outside companies to buy academic research. But the universities contend that the open flow of ideas is essential, with scholars depending on cross-fertilization. These programs bring scholars into the real world of commerce, they say, and they also generate income.
''We look to corporations for substantial financial support, and our industrial liaison program is a way of lubricating that process,'' said Dr. Paul Gray, president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''Research depends on openness, and restraints could kill the goose that lays the golden egg.''
In a 1988 study, the General Accounting Office found that 41 universities sold their research to a paying membership. The programs had 2,848 American corporate members and 496 foreign members, with 76 percent of the foreign companies concentrated in programs at three institutions: M.I.T., the University of California at Berkeley and Texas A. & M. University.
The practice is not new. M.I.T.'s program was created in 1948 as part of a broad effort to spur the postwar economy. But most of the large ones were created after 1980, when a change in the law gave universities proprietary rights to patents developed with federally financed research. While American companies have the same opportunity as other participants, the fact that foreigners profit from the universities' work is nevertheless objectionable to some members of Congress. And some in academia object to the practice on more general grounds.
Dr. David Noble, professor of history at Drexel University and a critic of the programs, said they ''have become a conduit of a massive giveaway to industry, including foreign companies.'' Dr. Noble, who formerly taught at M.I.T., has sued the school, claiming that he was denied tenure because of his criticism of the programs. Dr. Gray said the denial of tenure had nothing to do with this issue.
In Congress, the main questions have been about foreign participation.
''Our concern is that these programs provide privileged access to federally financed research before the research results are published,'' said Representative Ted Weiss, a New York Democrat who heads a human resources subcommittee. ''They're selling federally funded research to Japanese, German and other foreign companies, and that's wrong.''
This year the M.I.T. industrial liaison service had 291 members, 161 American and 130 foreign. They paid annual fees of up to $50,000, earning the school $4 million to $5 million. The foreign members include 56 Japanese corporations, 13 French and 13 Italian.
At a Congressional hearing earlier this year, the issue of technology export was addressed by Dr. Erich Bloch, director of the National Science Foundation, a Federal agency that provides about one-third of the $6 billion a year that the Government spends to underwrite university research. In response to a question, Dr. Bloch said he was ''pretty sure that the Government is subsidizing the export of technology indirectly, because that information is available to anybody in the country or outside the country.''
Representative Donald Payne, a New Jersey Democrat, said that at a time when the United States was ''losing its edge,'' the expenditure of tax dollars on research that benefited other countries was ''exacerbating an already bad situation.'' But Dr. Bloch and others who generally support the programs say that if American companies fail to take advantage of them, they have only themselves to blame.
While Dr. Gray shares Dr. Bloch's view, concern about foreign participation varies at other schools.
''Since all our research is published in the open literature, we believe that these programs are neutral in technology slippage,'' said Frank J. Giunta, director of industrial liaison programs at the University of California at Berkeley, which have 350 corporate members, of which 15 percent are foreign.
But Nancy Hay, Stanford University's assistant director for foundation and corporate relations, said that ''there have been discussions about whether foreign companies should be included in the Center for Integrated Systems,'' the university office in charge of selling the university's research. ''We decided not to encourage Japanese companies to join, because of the technology transfer problem,'' she said. About two dozen American companies pay the Stanford center $120,000 a year each for advance peeks at research. But 52 foreign companies are among the 325 members of Stanford's less far-reaching affiliate programs.
Bernard Schwartz, chairman of the Loral Corporation, a defense electronics manufacturer, said it was ''extraordinary'' that the sale of research to foreigners is allowed. He added, ''We need to develop strategies that give American companies an advantage.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (91%); TM (NYSE) (91%); 7203 (TSE) (91%); TOS (LSE) (58%); 6502 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (91%); TOSHIBA CORP (58%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FEDERAL AID (US) COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); PATENTS (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); CHEMICALS (77%); CHEMICALS MFG (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HISTORY (73%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); 

PERSON: TOLCHIN, MARTIN ERICH BLOCH (73%); 



474 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: IDEAS & TRENDS;
Among Historians, The Old Frontier Is Turning Nastier With Each Revision

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
ONE of the standard college textbooks still in use puts it this way: ''The history of the American West is, almost by definition, a triumphal narrative, for it traces a virtually unbroken chain of successes in national expansion.''
Patricia Nelson Limerick, who teaches history at the University of Colorado, sees that summation of the Western experience as evidence of a problem that has to be overcome. For decades descriptions of the glories of American nation-building have been balanced by sober accounts of the mistreatment of Indians, aggressiveness toward Mexico, the greed of settlers and the economic hardships of life. But Professor Limerick is among the leaders of a group of historians who, over the past decade or so, have promoted a view of history much bleaker than what has prevailed before. 
One of their primary goals is to go further in demolishing what they see as a battered but durable old myth: the image of the West as an empty land that instilled in its settlers the habits of rugged individualism, freedom and self-reliance, all of which gave America its special character. Instead, the new historians are scrutinizing the dark sides of the West's past, and they are drawing the conclusion that it was all too often a place of deep, unredeemed tragedy and failure. Their articles and books, reflecting trends in other disciplines, stress the despoilation of the environment, the contributions and abuse of minorities and women, and the injustices of what they portray as untrammeled greed.
''The grandiose history that white Americans once thought they were making out here, in this land beyond the Mississippi River, has come apart and does not compel belief as it once did,'' said Donald Worster, a practitioner of the new Western history, at a recent conference in New Mexico.
If it sounds as though this is negative history, a history emerging from the leftward movement of academic departments during the 1960's, some older scholars would agree. The West is a vast territory where many millions of people have enjoyed freedom and prosperity. By treating it as a human and ecological failure, the advocates of the new history are open to charges that they have pressed so far in trying to demolish the old myths that they have embraced a negativism as faulty as the romanticism of the past.
 
Re-Examining an Icon
A new history generally starts off by denying the validity of what preceded it, and in this sense, the new students of the West have a ready-made target - Frederick Jackson Turner, whose frontier thesis dominated graduate schools and writing about the West in the first half of the century. Though also criticized by later generations of historians, Turner remains an icon, the founder of the most influential school of thought ever in American historiography. In his view, the frontier gave America its character, promoting its individualism and its democratic culture. ''The existence of an area of free land, its continuous recession, and the advance of American settlement westward, explain American history,'' he wrote in a celebrated essay of 1893.
Extreme critics, throwing verbal caution to the winds, call him ''ethnocentric, racist and sexist.'' Moderate critics like Yale's Howard R. Lamar, who taught many members of the new generation of Western historians, say that the frontier thesis still has considerable validity. But they believe it only partly explains what made America different from other countries and does not at all deal with the West in the 20th century.
''Mr. Turner gave Americans the first theory that told them they had made their own culture and history,'' Mr. Lamar said. ''He tapped so many feelings that he has to be celebrated, but that was 100 years ago, and you can't go back to 1890 to explain everything.'' Mr. Lamar is troubled by the zealotry of some new historians, but he maintains that they have opened up unexplored areas, giving to the conception of the West a complexity and richness that it has not had.
One of the main notions of the new history is that the West was the most racially diverse large region in the country, a place where whites did not escape the rest of the world, as Turner suggested, but found it. There were Indians, of course. There were also black and Hispanic settlers and large populations of Chinese laborers. Women, both those who resemble the stereotype of the courageous pioneer killed by an Indian and those who were prostitutes, led hard and grim lives.
 
Revisionists' Bible
Many of these themes make up the contents of a book generally recognized as the fullest expression of the new history: Ms. Limerick's ''The Legacy of Conquest: The Unbroken Past of the American West.'' Rather than look at the West as the receding frontier, she sees it as ''a place undergoing conquest and never fully escaping its consequences.'' She shatters, for example, ''the fantasy that the West set Americans free from dependence on the Federal Government.'' Western economic exploitation, she argues, depended on Congressional favors and complicity between businessmen and politicians who were often one and the same.
An important theme is that settlers, rather than escaping the problems of the East, re-created them - like the asthmatic searchers for good air in Phoenix who planted fruitless mulberry trees, which produced vast quantities of harmful pollen. The often harsh conditions of Western life, she argues, ''will not let us take refuge in sentimental and nostalgic images'' of the sort she believes the Turner thesis sustains.
Ms. Limerick allowed that there might be some excess in the new history. But she argued that a scholarly imbalance had to be redressed. ''We have had such a long regime of the model of Western history as a success story,'' she said. ''We are against that, and you could say, perhaps, that we have pushed the pendulum too far.
''I don't think everybody has to buy Kleenex and weep over how unusually unhappy the Western experience was,'' she continued, ''but it had the usual quota of tragedy and failure, cruelty and inhumanity, and situations of invasion and conquest often raise the stakes on things like that.''

GRAPHIC: ''The Scout'' by Frederic Remington (pg. 1); in Frederic Remington's paintings, the American West is a place where brave men fought to open up a new frontier

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: WEST USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (53%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (58%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTERN STATES (US)

SUBJECT: HISTORY (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); TEXTBOOKS (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, RICHARD



475 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 20, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: A Second Chance for Vision

 BODY:
America had a fair idea of what it was getting in George Bush: a competent, cautious steward with a slim agenda and no taste for what he called ''the vision thing.'' He would make changes at the margins of the Reagan Revolution without disturbing its core. The nation would be kinder and gentler. Taxes would stay low, defenses strong. He would be a prudent leader in placid times. Uncharismatic, for sure, but the voters found that preferable to the uncertain candidacy of Michael Dukakis.
Now, thanks largely to Mikhail Gorbachev and the long-stifled emotions of millions of Eastern Europeans, the world George Bush inherited has changed dramatically. The end of the cold war does more than challenge old assumptions. It inspires high hopes that America will shift resources from receding foreign threats to neglected domestic needs. 
A few months ago, Mr. Bush seemed well matched to his times - in The Economist's words, ''a President without a vision when visions are out of fashion.'' Yet a visionary named Gorbachev now invites more than stewardship from the President in Washington. Is Mr. Bush up to the task? His first year in office offers grounds for hope - and worry.
Mr. Bush's inaugural provided no grand plan, just a sensible approach to governance. The country, he said, had grown weary of ideological combat and was eager for bipartisanship. So he moved quickly to defuse controversy. On Central America, for example, he cut a deal with Congress to send humanitarian but not military aid to the Nicaraguan contras, removing at one stroke an issue that had paralyzed Mr. Reagan's relations with Congress.
Mr. Bush kept the Reagan faith by opposing abortion, though his views increasingly antagonized Republican women - and dismayed Republican officeholders. He shamelessly exploited the flag burning issue. Yet he broke cleanly with Mr. Reagan on important environmental questions like acid rain, faced up to the savings and loan crisis and offered an original approach to third world debt. And unlike his predecessor, who had ears only for good news, Mr. Bush acknowledged that America suffered from drugs, poor housing and poor schooling.
He brought a new style, too. Jimmy Carter cared little for Congress, Ronald Reagan even less for the press. George Bush held 24 formal news conferences in his first nine months. He pitched horseshoes with reporters, herded Congressmen on tours through the White House living quarters, composed handwritten notes by the bushel. There was no escaping his relentless bonhomie. These have been welcome adjustments to the Reagan legacy. Other aspects of Mr. Bush's first year give pause.
For a man who personifies openness and prudence, the President has sometimes displayed a disturbing penchant for secretive, even impulsive behavior. He arranged the Malta summit meeting without telling his Defense Secretary, Dick Cheney, who was himself involved in sensitive discussions with Soviet officials.
Just a week ago, Mr. Bush dispatched two aides on the furtive mission to Beijing. A patient explanation of his strategy might have allayed the sense of betrayal felt by Americans sickened by the slaughter of Chinese students last spring. The two episodes were unhappy reminders of how Mr. Bush startled the public, and even some of his closest aides, by choosing Dan Quayle as his running mate.
If Mr. Bush has sometimes seemed oddly impetuous, he has often been surprisingly insubstantial. The sound emanating from Washington is the sound of wind machines. The whirr is intended to make people think America is moving.
The education summit meeting conducted by the self-styled Education President was all wind. The housing plan, ditto. The famous War on Drugs, mostly ditto. There's little new money, and no will to find any. The deficit - and Mr. Bush's stubborn refusal to budge from his no-new-taxes pledge - have paralyzed Congress. Mr. Bush doesn't shout charge! He whispers it.
That defines the central worry about Mr. Bush in the Gorbachev era. The President is right to approach enormous matters like the reshaping of Europe with prudence. He is right when he says there can be no instant peace dividend; reductions in defense will have to be made gradually.
But if Mr. Gorbachev can sustain his vision of a more peaceable Soviet Union, he invites Americans, and their President, to imagine, too. George Bush can be more than what he thought he would be, a capable shepherd of the status quo. He can, over the next three years, begin a transformation of American priorities.
That means doing all he can to help Mr. Gorbachev survive. It means honoring his pledge at Malta to push the bureaucracy ''as fast as I possibly can'' toward agreement on strategic nuclear weapons and conventional forces. And it means seizing this moment to plan for peace - a precious and unexpected opportunity that asks the unexpected of George Bush.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); COLD WAR (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%); SAVINGS & LOANS (50%); ACID RAIN (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); DICK CHENEY (59%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 



476 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 21, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: To Repair Our Nation

BYLINE: By Felix G. Rohatyn; Felix G. Rohatyn, an investment banker, is chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation.

 BODY:
The need for large-scale investment in public works is obvious to anyone who travels about the United States. And there is a way to make it possible despite the Federal Government's budget deficit: the creation of state infrastructure banks.
Roads and bridges need extensive repairs. Airports are overwhelmed and need to expand, and the nation's air traffic control system should be revamped. Every large city needs new schools, hospitals and public transportation systems. 
New York City alone requires an investment of $50 billion during the next decade to bring its infrastructure up to a tolerable level. The country as a whole is said to need $2 trillion to $3 trillion in infrastructure improvements.
It is also obvious that the United States needs a modern infrastructure if it is to compete effectively in the global economy. An up to date road and air transport system, greater environmental protection and better schools and hospitals all are needed to support a competitive private sector economy. Over the long run, a national policy of support for greater public investment should involve a direct shift from military expenditures to public-works spending. In the short run, however, a more aggressive stance should be taken, using the considerable assets of public pension funds to meet social needs. A policy could be evolved that would respond to these needs and, at the same time, protect retirees. Here's how it might work. State infrastructure banks could be set up, financed by a combination of the assets of public employee pension funds and the proceeds of a tax of some variety, perhaps a statewide gasoline tax. The Federal Government would guarantee the portion of pension fund assets, say 10 percent, that would be invested in the development bank. The states would levy the tax.
The public investment that could be generated by public employee pension funds - the amount would be limited by law to a certain percentage of their assets - would be considerable. In New York State alone, for instance, the assets of public employee pension funds amount to approximately $100 billion. Moreover, the funds are growing steadily at a rate of about 8 percent a year. Ten percent of those assets would amount to $10 billion, growing to about $20 billion over 10 years, as the funds' assets increase.
A statewide gasoline tax of 15 cents a gallon would produce revenues of about $1 billion a year. The combination of the pension fund assets and the proceeds of a gasoline tax, plus additional borrowings against future revenues, could permit public investment of at least $30 billion to $40 billion statewide during the next decade.
In 11 states alone, public employees' pension fund assets amount to about $350 billion. A similar formula involving 10 percent of pension fund assets plus a reasonable taxing effort could generate, in the aggregate, $75 billion to $100 billion of public investment in those states.
It is obviously impossible to commit pension fund assets without protection for the retirees. The most obvious protection would be Federal guarantees.
The possibility of direct Federal expenditures on public works seems remote at this point. Secretary of Transportation Samuel K. Skinner has urged the nation's governors to help meet the nation's infrastructure needs by raising local gasoline taxes. It is pointless to argue whether it is appropriate for Washington to pass the buck to the states. However, given the nation's inability to deal with the Federal budget deficit, there is no practical way to get Federal outlays.
On the other hand, Federal guarantees would be totally appropriate within the context of a state infrastructure bank and a state taxing effort. Federal guarantees need not affect the Federal budget; they have been used again and again in a variety of cases.
Obviously, the governance of the infrastructure banks would have to insure a businesslike approach to investment. These are details that can be worked out. But the combination of a state taxing effort, public employee pension funds and Federal guarantees to insure needed public construction would seem an appropriate combination.
A multistate effort in the Congress, with the support of business and labor, should generate significant political support and influence the Administration to come aboard. We, in New York State, should lead the effort.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: PUBLIC WORKS; BANKS AND BANKING; TAXATION; PENSION FUNDS; FINANCES INFRASTRUCTURE (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (87%); FUEL TAX (86%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (72%); 

PERSON: ROHATYN, FELIX G



477 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3, Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER;
A Bill of Rights for the Disabled Nears Passage

BYLINE: By BETSY WADE

 BODY:
LEGISLATION designed to provide equal treatment and broad changes for disabled people in the United States, estimated to number at least 43 million, is expected to be enacted early next year.
The measure, known as the Americans With Disabilities Act, has been described as extending the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to those with disabilities. Already approved by the Senate, it is expected to pass the House and return to the Senate for any changes to harmonize the bills before being signed by President Bush, who supports it.
Generally, the measure says that when new things are built, bought or overhauled by travel companies they should be ''readily accessible to and usable by'' people with disabilities. The bill calls for existing places to be made accessible if the modifications are ''readily achievable,'' which the bill's sponsors said means if it can be accomplished without much difficulty or expense. 
The big areas where the bill touches on travel involve bus transportation, both public and private systems, rail systems, both rapid transit and long-distance, motels and restaurants and other places that accommodate the public - museums, theaters, transportation terminals, parks and zoos and recreation areas.
The bill seeks to deal with all the areas where there is no Federal legislation to protect the disabled; for instance, the bill has a section on telephone services for the deaf.
As for travel, it does not discuss air transportation, which is already governed by a number of Federal laws and rules on the disabled, some of which have not yet been fitted together. It also does not consider facilities that have been built with Federal aid, including most airports, since the Federal money means they were subject to earlier Government requirements for access for the disabled.
 
The Key Areas
There are key areas of the bill that are visible: wide bathroom doors, for example; lifts on bus doors; elevators in shopping centers; grab bars in bathrooms. But when advocates for the disabled discuss the impact of the bill, they shy away from focusing on the visible. Many disabilities, like retardation or deafness, they say, are not visible and the solutions may not be visible either - a telephone relay system for the deaf uses a central operator to translate a visible message (either printed out or on a computer terminal) into a voice message and then to type in the reply.
Advocates of the bill point to the provisions that would make it illegal to refuse admission or use on the basis of disability, and say that their most valuable testimony has been from people who have been kept out of places because they use wheelchairs. These advocates say that this core of the bill may require changes in transport equipment or places of accommodation but that the need to rebuild existing facilities is not great.
The area that has caused dispute in Congress, and where the debate has spilled out into the public print, is the issue of putting lifts on buses for long-distance travel so that people in wheelchairs can get aboard without getting out of their chairs. The issues are how much the lifts add to the cost of new buses, how much luggage space they pre-empt and how many seats they eliminate.
Marilyn Golden, a policy analyst with the Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund, a principal supporter of the bill, testified in Congress this fall: ''Bus travel is the only travel available to poor Americans, and disabled Americans are three times more likely to fall below the Federal poverty line than nondisabled Americans. Bus travel is also the only route available to rural Americans, and disabled Americans live in rural areas in higher concentrations than the nondisabled.''
Wayne J. Smith, executive director of the United Bus Owners of America, writing for the Op-Ed page of The New York Times last month, said: ''By economically crippling the private bus industry with costly and unwarranted mandates, this bill would virtually eliminate the last form of public transportation available to most rural communities . . . . Not all bus companies would fail, of course. But the few surviving that charged enough to stay in business would be priced out of the range of today's primary riders . . . .''
As the bill was finally approved in the Senate, it would be six years before big scheduled private bus companies buying new buses would have to buy models with lifts; for small companies, the delay would be seven years.
In the meantime, the bill provides for a three-year study of the cost impact on the bus industry.
Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, the main sponsor of the bill, said that cost claims of the industry were not true.
He cited the experience in Denver where a regional transit agency used a lift that added $10,000, or 5 percent, to the cost of a $200,000 bus - the bus association put the additional cost at $35,000 - with no loss of luggage space and loss of ''maybe one seat.''
In local transit, new vehicles would have to be accessible and, in addition, a ''comparable'' system of vans or similar vehicles would be provided for those who could not use regular buses, unless this resulted in an undue financial burden. The advocates of the bill as the Senate passed it oppose total reliance on a van system of the sort often provided for the disabled and elderly because it requires calls in advance and usually operates only in daytime hours.
As for charter and tour bus companies, the bill says that if a company is already able to accommodate the requests it receives for transporting the disabled, it does not need to get special fittings on its new equipment. A company would have to get lift-fitted vehicles when it bought new ones if it was not meeting demand.
For rail transportation, the main requirement would involve platforms that provide level - that is, roll on - entrance. Key subway stations would have to be made accessible within three years, with exemptions of up to 20 years for difficult stations.
These schedules are moot in a few cities, including New York, where the transit agency has agreed to a timetable of changes as a result of lawsuits by the Eastern Paralyzed Veterans Association.
Amtrak stations would be allowed 20 years. According to Amtrak, many problems over 10 years have held up ''barrier free'' access to Penn Station in New York. Most recently, bids on a street-level elevator at 33d Street came in higher than the budget allowed but the line will seek added money. Four platform-level elevators await city inspection, according to a spokeswoman, Pat Dorica. Bus and rail depots that were built without Federal money would have to be adapted to allow access.
 
Public Accommodations
In the area of public accommodations, the bill covers 12 categories: lodging places, restaurants and bars, places for exhibitions or entertainment, assembly places, retail sales places, service establishments, transportation terminals, places of public display or collection, schools, parks and zoos, social service establishments and exercise or recreation places.
It exempts from the requirement that new buildings must have elevators those buildings under three stories or under 3,000 square feet per story unless they are health-care facilities or shopping centers. Buildings undergoing renovations would have to make the renovated area accessible to the disabled, and the toilets in the renovated areas would have to be built for use by the disabled.
Ms. Golden was asked for her view of the world after the Americans With Disabilities Act was in force.
''I envision a day,'' she said, ''when of course buildings will be accessible, of course public transit will be available, when the disabled can work, travel home, have vacations with their families.
''We will look back and be astonished at what our world was once like, as we look back and are appalled at a time when we tolerated slavery and child labor.'' Her words were inadvertently echoed by a recent visitor to Australia who said that everything for the tourist was adapted for the disabled and that no one appeared to find it out of the ordinary.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HANDICAPPED; CONSUMER PROTECTION; DISCRIMINATION DISABLED PERSONS (95%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEAFNESS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); DISABLED ACCESS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (73%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (72%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); TRAVEL AGENTS (70%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (67%); RETAILERS (62%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (52%); 

PERSON: WADE, BETSY GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 



478 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 28, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: A VICTORY HALF WON

BYLINE: By DAVID J. GARROW; David J. Garrow is the author of ''Bearing the Cross: Martin Luther King, Jr., and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference.''

 BODY:

FREEDOM BOUND
A History of America's Civil Rights Movement.
By Robert Weisbrot.
Illustrated. 350 pp. New York:
W. W. Norton & Company. $21.95.
For well over a decade the historiography of the civil rights movement has featured many admirable middle- and small-gauge studies. Some have treated particular groups - the Congress of Racial Equality, the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee - or single leaders, especially Martin Luther King Jr. Others have focused on individual locales - Greensboro, N.C., Tuskegee, Ala. - or singular events, such as the 1955 lynching of Emmett Till or the 1965 Selma voting-rights campaign. 
Until now, only several books from the early 1980's, including Harvard Sitkoff's ''Struggle for Black Equality, 1954-1980'' and Rhoda L. Blumberg's ''Civil Rights,'' have sought to provide comprehensive, single-volume surveys of the black freedom struggle after World War II, and readers have not had a dependable, scholarly introduction to the civil rights era.
Robert Weisbrot's ''Freedom Bound'' is a commendable and often beautifully written effort to fill this gap. Ranging widely and inclusively from World War II to the Reagan Administration, Mr. Weisbrot's cogent survey describes the better-known events in the South - the Montgomery bus boycott in 1955-56, the 1963 Birmingham demonstrations - while also giving full and fair attention to Northern activists and commentators, from Malcolm X to Imamu Amiri Baraka (LeRoi Jones) to the social critic Harold Cruse. In many instances, such as his depiction of the generational tensions that troubled the Southern movement in the early 1960's and of the political ambivalence that marked the Kennedy Administration's dealings with Southern black activists, Mr. Weisbrot's account is interpretively astute and superbly phrased.
''Freedom Bound'' is based more on secondary sources than on original oral history or archival work. Although much of that research appears to date from 1984-85, only rarely - such as in his accounts of the 1964 Democratic National Convention in Atlantic City and the 1966 Chicago freedom movement negotiations between King and Mayor Richard J. Daley - does Mr. Weisbrot err seriously by relying excessively on single sources. Those sections and some others should be corrected and improved before ''Freedom Bound'' makes its way into the paperback college-course market, along with the mangled names and erroneous photo captions that also mar what otherwise would be a first-rate piece of work.
Such errors detract and distract, but they are easily correctable in a book that should enjoy a relatively long life because of its unrivaled breadth and perspicacious analyses. Mr. Weisbrot, a professor of history at Colby College in Maine, stumbles by repeatedly using ''underclass'' far more loosely than social policy analysts do, and ought to rephrase a characterization of the Watts ghetto as ''a squalid human anthill''; otherwise, his fluid prose and apt diction capture the ascent and the descent of the civil rights struggle.
The young organizers of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee were on the cutting edge of the Southern movement during both those successive stages, and ''Freedom Bound'' astutely portrays what Mr. Weisbrot terms ''SNCC's political journey from faith to cynicism.'' His account of how '' 'Black Power' could mean all things to all people'' is similarly trenchant, and he straightforwardly addresses how the Johnson Administration and the civil rights movement failed to mount massive or sustained assaults on black poverty and economic exclusion. King recognized in Chicago in 1966 that poverty would be a far more intractable opponent than Southern segregation, but only in the last six months of his life did he turn his full attention to economic issues. King's growing realization that questions of class were equally if not more important than distinctions of race foreshadowed many of the conclusions that analysts such as William J. Wilson have recently reached regarding black America's economic bifurcation and decline over the past 20 years. King warned that deep economic division was just as great an evil as deep racial division, and no scholar or even casual observer can fail to note, in any major city, that the cost of America's failure to heed that warning continues to grow every day.
Mr. Weisbrot correctly observes that ''the roots of racial inequality have proved too deeply embedded in centuries of American history to be washed away'' by the reform statutes of the 1960's. ''Freedom Bound'' more often than not does a praiseworthy job of explaining both the familiar and the unheralded aspects of this chapter from our recent history, a history we all should know, if only better to appreciate the growing economic and racial divisions that mark the United States today. As Mr. Weisbrot concludes, ''In important respects the society's newfound emphasis on interracial harmony has been more rhetorical than real.''

GRAPHIC: Civil rights demonstrators being hosed by fireman in Birmingham, Ala. 1963. (From ''Freedom Bound''/Black Star/Charles Moore)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: FREEDOM BOUND (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (77%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (92%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS CIVIL RIGHTS (94%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HISTORY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); WORLD WAR II (67%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (63%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: GARROW, DAVID J; WEISBROT, ROBERT MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); 



479 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 32, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: New & Noteworthy

BYLINE: GEORGE JOHNSON

 BODY:

UTZ, by Bruce Chatwin. (Penguin, $7.95.) A petty aristocrat named Kaspar Joachim Utz becomes trapped in Czechoslovakia by the priceless collection of porcelain that he refuses to leave behind. The last novel of Bruce Chatwin, who died earlier this year, shows him ''at his most erudite and evocative,'' Robert Stone said here in January. '' 'Utz' provides its readers with a rich and rewarding meditation.''
 
THE MASTER OF THE GAME: Paul Nitze and the Nuclear Peace, by Strobe Talbott. (Vintage, $10.95.) In the third installment of his chronicles of arms control, Strobe Talbott tells how the ever-practical negotiator Paul Nitze turned Ronald Reagan's utopian Star Wars plan into a bargaining chip. Mr. Talbott ''demonstrates his own mastery of bureaucratic drama, combining a gift for characterization and an eye for the revealing anecdote with a firm grasp of his subject,'' Lawrence Freedman said in The Book Review in 1988. ''His sources are enviable, allowing him to offer an instant history that rings true throughout.'' 
 
CAT'S EYE, by Margaret Atwood. (Bantam, $5.95.) An artist goes home to Toronto for a retrospective of her paintings and finds herself haunted by memories of a disturbed childhood friend. ''All this is vintage Atwood,'' our reviewer, Alice McDermott, said in February: ''the precise and devastating detail, the sense of the ordinary transformed into nightmare, the quiet desperation of characters trapped, silenced, utterly alone.''
 
DESPERADOS: Latin Drug Lords, U.S. Lawmen, and the War America Can't Win, by Elaine Shannon. (Penguin, $4.95.) A reporter for Time magazine tells why she thinks economic and diplomatic relations between Mexico and the United States interfered with the investigation into the death of Enrique Camarena, the Drug Enforcement Administration agent who was murdered in Guadalajara. This ''well-reported reconstruction of the investigation'' raises ''disturbing questions,'' Jeff Gerth said here last year.
 
THE FIFTH STATION, by Kevin McIlvoy. (Collier/Macmillan, $6.95.) When their brother is killed in a mill accident, two steelworkers move to New Mexico and try to forget. Last year our reviewer, Patricia Dobler, said this first novel is ''rich with details of both mill life and life in a rural New Mexican community.''
 
TOCQUEVILLE: A Biography, by Andre Jardin. Translated by Lydia Davis with Robert Hemenway. (Noonday/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $14.95.) This biography of the visitor who explained the American mind to both the French and the Americans is ''written with admirable thoroughness,'' Joan Wallach Scott said here in February.
 
THE VEILED ONE, by Ruth Rendell. (Ballantine, $4.95.) Like a patient with his psychiatrist, the suspect in a parking-garage murder develops a fixation on his interrogator. Last year our reviewer, Josh Rubins, said Ruth Rendell's ''uncompromising psychological suspense novels . . . offer harrowing, coolly ironic excursions into the minds of genteel psychopaths and secret sex offenders, the lonely and obsessed and deluded. . . . [Her] prose - lean, sly, almost clinical - reinforces the bleakness.''
 
THE SIGNIFYING MONKEY: A Theory of African-American Literary Criticism, by Henry Louis Gates Jr. (Oxford University, $10.95.) Looking to both ancient African myths and contemporary literary theory, a scholar develops a new theory of black literature. ''This somewhat intimidating, quite serious essay in literary criticism can be enjoyed by a variety of readers,'' John Wideman said in The Book Review last year. Oxford has also reissued Mr. Gates's 1987 book, FIGURES IN BLACK: WORDS, SIGNS, AND THE ''RACIAL'' SELF ($10.95), in which he applies the ideas of modern critics like Michel Foucault and Jacques Derrida to the works of Ishmael Reed, Alice Walker and other black writers. Howard University Press has republished BLACK IS THE COLOR OF THE COSMOS: Essays on Afro-American Literature and Culture, 1942-1981 ($15.95). The pieces, written by Charles T. Davis and edited by Mr. Gates, analyze such authors as Jean Toomer, Richard Wright and Ralph Ellison.
 
WAVERLY PLACE, by Susan Brownmiller. (Signet/New American Library, $4.95.) In a fictionalized account of the Joel Steinberg-Hedda Nussbaum case, Susan Brownmiller tries to fathom how a couple in her Greenwich Village neighborhood dug themselves into a sadomasochistic life that led to the killing of a 6-year-old girl. Last year The Times's Christopher Lehmann-Haupt said that, while the book is not satisfying as a novel, it ''serves a potentially constructive purpose. It tries to fill the emotional void created by any incomprehensible human act. It proposes how such a thing could have happened and allows us to participate in the drama of its answer.''
 
ALICIA: My Story, by Alicia Appleman-Jurman. (Bantam, $4.95.) After losing her family, a teen-age girl helps her fellow Poles escape the Nazis. This autobiography is ''so profoundly observed, and the life it records so remarkably lived, that no amount of prior immersion in the sad community of witnesses to the Holocaust can dull the reader to its heroine,'' Sonia Taitz said in The Book Review last year.
 
KOKO, by Peter Straub. (Signet/New American Library, $5.95.) Three Vietnam veterans suspect that a member of their old platoon is the infamous Koko, a serial killer in Southeast Asia who leaves a playing card with a picture of an elephant in his victims' mouths. ''In this fable of men undone by the ultimate horror, evil is anything but banal,'' Richard Fuller said here last year.

GRAPHIC: Paul Nitze (NYT/Jose Lopez)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (50%); 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (51%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (85%); PAINTING (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (78%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (78%); LITERATURE (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); MURDER (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (67%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (62%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (62%); FACTORY WORKERS (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (56%); 



480 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: HE LEFT HER FOR A WOMAN CALLED PINKY

BYLINE: By TIM SANDLIN; Tim Sandlin's most recent novel is ''Western Swing.''

 BODY:

THE CHINCHILLA FARM
By Judith Freeman.
308 pp. New York: W.W. Norton & Company. $19.95.
The Southern border state is not so much a location as a state of mind. For me, Kentucky, Tennessee, Arkansas, Oklahoma, Utah and parts of Maine qualify as Southern border states. And border state fiction is not so much a technique as an economic class. 
In this fiction, at its most cliched, MeMaw puts her hair up in paper curlers, drives the Rambler 40 miles to a Wal-Mart to buy Mason jars and afterward feels sinful as she splurges at Burger Boy. But in the hands of a writer who neither cutely condescends nor wallows in romantic nostalgia for the good old days - Bobbie Ann Mason, Charles Portis and now Judith Freeman - it can ring with authenticity and compassion for people living 1950's family values in a high-tech 1980's world.
Judith Freeman knows her people. First, in her short-story collection, ''Family Attractions,'' and now in her remarkable first novel, ''The Chinchilla Farm,'' she moves into each scene and chooses the one detail that makes it all true, that brings the rest of us who grew up in border states back to lost images.
The novel is at its best during the many flashbacks of its narrator Verna Flake's childhood in a large Mormon family living on the edge of the Great Salt Lake. In the Flake household, newspapers are carefully spread on the kitchen table for the weekly ritual of polishing the Sunday shoes; bags of clothes are sprinkled with water, then stored in the deep freeze to await ironing; on the front porch, a sign carved in yellow knotty pine reads KWITCHURBELLYACHIN. Life revolves around the family and the church.
Honestly portraying the lives of modern Mormons is a tough trick. Most writers - in fact, all writers I've read except Ms. Freeman - are so prejudiced either for or against Mormons that their characters run from God's own down-home saints to silly hypocrites, with little in between. But the people in this book have flesh - and contradictions, triumphs and failures. They can be petty and generous at the same time.
When Verna is 34, her husband of 17 years collects all his outdoor sports gear and leaves her for a former Miss Wyoming runner-up named Pinky. Until that moment, every detail of Verna's existence has been dictated by church, family and husband. Freedom blows the boundaries off her life, leaving more options than she ever dreamed possible. The first option Verna chooses is to load her possessions into a horse trailer, gas up the pickup truck and drive to Los Angeles to start a new life.
In California, she briefly comes in contact with the snooty set, with men who say things like, ''His music was emotional in the romantic manner, poetically conceived, but nevertheless cast in the formal molds of the classical school. A very interesting composer, Schubert.'' To which Verna replies that her favorite musician is Patsy Cline. The Los Angeles upper-crust scenes don't have quite the authenticity of the Utah bowling alley. Maybe people in Los Angeles actually say, ''nevertheless cast in the formal molds.'' I doubt it, but then I never met anyone who prefers Schubert to Patsy Cline.
Soon Verna finds a job and an apartment on the seedier side of the city, and we get back to Ms. Freeman's amazing eye for details - the mixed sounds of air conditioning, produce trucks and domestic violence, the smell of bums in the library, the shininess of a wino's blanket. Verna reconnects with her dead brother's wife, Inez, who is now married to an abusive gun freak. With no more forethought than she gave the move to California, Verna takes flight to Mexico with Inez, her daughter, Christobel (who ''may be slow, but she's no dummy''), and a broken alcoholic named Duluth Wing.
After 305 pages of an almost Tolstoyan insight into the human plight, at the end of the novel Ms. Freeman jumps ahead several years for three pages of tying up loose ends. To use a literary term, these three pages suck eggs.
The last three pages aside, Judith Freeman has written a beautiful book, beautiful because of the compassion of Verna Flake. Verna could easily fall back on the excuse of victimization by men and Mormons, but she rejects any hint of self-pity. ''I'd stick with you now,'' she tells her husband, ''but I don't think it would work . . . you, me, and Pinky. You got every right to walk out if that's what you've decided. I'm not going to give you any argument.'' Nor is Verna a passive, put-upon woman drifting helplessly between crises. Her revenge on the husband-stealer Pinky is swift and Western.
The special thing about Verna is the way she treats each person in her path with equal openness. Verna approaches each individual with pleasant good intentions and expects the same in return. Her journey from Utah to Mexico puts her in touch with a strange variety of users, abusers and lost souls leading colorless lives with little hope of any improvement. And Verna, like her creator, Judith Freeman, accepts without judgment the good and bad in each one. She not only survives the morass of 1950's family values in a high-tech 1980's world, she is quietly triumphant.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CHINCHILLA FARM, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); RELIGION (89%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (86%); FAMILY (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: SANDLIN, TIM; FREEMAN, JUDITH



481 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 19, Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: IN SHORT;
NONFICTION

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:

THE BIG FIX. Inside the S&L Scandal: How an Unholy Alliance of Politics and Money Destroyed America's Banking System. By James Ring Adams. (John Wiley & Sons, $19.95.) Finance - and financial fraud - can be dry and arcane. But in ''The Big Fix,'' James Ring Adams offers a front-row seat at a three-ring circus. Mr. Adams presents the downfall of some high-flying financial empires, including the Butcher brothers' Tennessee banking system and Charles Keating's Lincoln Savings and Loan Association. He also chronicles the bumbling efforts of financial regulators, who seemed unable to rein in banks and savings and loan associations when their examiners found problems. And Mr. Adams shows members of Congress - from former House Speaker Jim Wright to Senators Donald Riegle and Alan Cranston - juggling political contributions with one hand while using the other to interrupt the regulatory process. But Mr. Adams, a financial journalist, means to do more than tell tales. He argues persuasively that the system of Government insurance for bank and thrift deposits - instituted after the banking crises of the 1930's - was ''a deeply flawed notion,'' bound to go haywire. Such guarantees, he explains, allow financial institutions to keep attracting funds even as they make risky investments and lose money; depositors do not care because they know that the Government will reimburse them even if a bank or a savings and loan institution closes. Now that Americans are faced with a bill estimated at more than $150 billion to make good on the deposits of failed savings and loan associations, Mr. Adams should find a ready audience.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BIG FIX, THE (BOOK)

TICKER: JWB (NYSE) (58%); JWA (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: JOHN WILEY & SONS INC (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BANKING & FINANCE (92%); SAVINGS & LOANS (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BANK FAILURES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); WRITERS (67%); 

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W; ADAMS, JAMES RING JAMES F WRIGHT (56%); JAMES F WRIGHT (56%); 



482 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 89; Page 8, Column 8; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: Incentive Exists In N.F.L.

 BODY:
To the Sports Editor:
Gerald W. Scully, who wrote recently on National Football League labor relations (''Tackling the N.F.L. Labor Impasse, The New York Times, Nov. 28), ignored current N.F.L. economic trends disproving his contention that there is little financial incentive to win in pro football.
Scully theorized that N.F.L. revenue sharing dampens economic incentives. Yet, the primary source of shared revenue, the league's television contracts, has not increased in three seasons while expenses, particularly player salaries, have skyrocketed. And when franchises have been sold huge debt service payments have been acquired by the new owners.
In this economic climate, the financial incentive to win is clear. Winning teams have a greater opportunity to generate revenues that can mean the difference between breaking even or a financial loss.
Even cursory research would have refuted Scully's position that revenues do not rise much with a winning season because games are sold out. Experience shows that few noncompetitive teams sell out their games, while losing teams that become winners sell more tickets and increase their revenues.
The Buffalo Bills, for example, had a 12-4 regular-season record in 1988 and set an N.F.L. in-stadium attendance mark with 622,793 fans. The Bills sold 40,117 season tickets. Four seasons earlier, the Bills' record was 2-14. The club sold 19,031 season tickets to 80,290-seat Rich Stadium and played before 303,145 home fans.
Scully's research was also inaccurate regarding average N.F.L. career length, which he incorrectly stated as less than three years. The average experience of N.F.L. players in the 1989 season is 4.4 years, up from 4.05 years last season. In this decade, the average N.F.L. career has not dropped below 4.0 years.
 
JOHN M. JONES
Director of Public Relations
 N.F.L. Management Council

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (58%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); BUFFALO BILLS (83%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TICKET SALES (76%); TRENDS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 



483 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVES: East Side Zoning;
Adjusting the Rules for Avenue Buildings

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER

 BODY:
IN New York City, zoning change is always in the air. Ever since the basic change of 1961 there have been refinements and additions to the law, sometimes tending to encourage, sometimes to discourage, redevelopment. And at times the goal is to alter the style of new residential construction.
So it is with a new ''discussion document'' on the issues and options in regulating residential towers and plazas in Manhattan, brought forward last month by the Department of City Planning. Its goal is to open discussions leading to zoning changes that would alter the standard residential building that might rise in the future on the wide cross streets and avenues, from Third Avenue eastward, of the Upper East Side.
Currently that building is normally a straight tower behind an open plaza. But the planners are envisioning a more ''contextual'' building - after the fashion of new zoning on the West Side - of a tower over a substantial base built to the streetline. 
In current contextual zoning on the West Side, this base on the avenues is typically 150 feet - about 12 stories. Then the building is forced to step back under a formula that allows little additional height above the base. On the East Side the base might be lower, perhaps 60 to 85 feet, or six to eight stories. And a rule is suggested to force a significant percentage of the building's bulk toward its base.
This would limit the height of the tower and, in the process, limit the transfer of unutilized development rights above existing adjacent occupied buildings.
The consequences of this proposed change would be significant. The policy questions, as the Planning Department acknowledges, involve complex technical issues in urban design and economics. Community groups, architects, developers and planners are likely to differ as much on what the problems are as they will on their solution.
From the community perspective, Constance Adamec, chairwoman of the planning and development committee of Community Board 8, noted that the proposals would produce ''lower, squatter buildings, which is more in keeping with what we would like to see.''
''Our concern is huge towers that are overshadowing the community,'' she said. Similar concerns have been voiced by influential East Side civic organizations - among them Civitas, the Friends of the Upper East Side Historic Districts, the Yorkville Civic Council, Carnegie Hill Neighbors.
The higher towers are in many cases a direct result of rent regulations and its strong occupancy protection for tenants, which are both the cause and result of the East Side's tight housing market.
To avoid displacement pressure on these tenants, and yet allow for reasonable redevelopment, builders have been allowed to shift unutilized development rights above occupied buildings from abutting plots to a building plot within a ''merged zoning lot.''
There are other causes as well. In a study done for Civitas, Craig Whitaker, an architect, found that a significant amount of the bulk in post-1961 avenue buildings could be attributed to the added 25 feet of depth that the ordinance gave to the higher-density avenue zones, previously only 100 feet deep into the midblock.
Genie Rice, president of Civitas, expressed disappointment that the planners had not proposed to restore the 25-foot strip to a lower midblock density. She called this the ''missing element'' in a proposal that goes far to meet the organization's concerns.
''It needs work,'' said Mrs. Elizabeth Ashby, president of Carnegie Hill Neighbors.
The Planning Department, for its part, has focused its attention on reducing the emphasis of the 1961 law on creating open plazas, and on ''packing the bulk'' in new buildings at the base rather than in the tower. Indirectly, this has the effect of reducing the use unutilized development rights from nearby lots on a single building lot.
The Planning Department has avoided a direct assault on merged zoning lots, mainly on the ground that an enforceable, loophole-free definition of zoning lot mergers could not be devised, and that in any event such a restriction could have unintended and unwanted consequences.
NOR is there, in a direct sense, a downzoning involved in the planners' proposals. The basic zoning on the East Side's avenues and wide cross streets between 59th and 96th Streets would remain with an F.A.R. of 10 or its equivalent (10 square feet of allowable building square footage for each square foot of land) and the 20 percent bonus would remain, but in altered form.
On large sites, only half the bonus would be available from a plaza; the other half would have to come from inclusionary zoning. In new construction on private land, this is the bonus builders are allowed for producing new low-income housing within the community district or within half a mile of it. They are allowed four square feet of building area for each square foot of low-income housing produced, up to the benefit limit of a given site.
On the West Side, where new contextual zones have been introduced on the avenues and major cross streets, the plaza bonus has been eliminated entirely and the inclusionary housing bonus is the only as-of-right mechanism still left to get the 20 percent bonus.
On smaller East Side avenue sites (12,500 square feet or less) the planners propose to eliminate the plaza bonus. Only the inclusionary housing bonus would be available.
The planners did an exhaustive study of residential development in Community Board 8's area from 1978 to 1988. It turned out that there were 77 projects in the R-10 or R-10 equivalent zones, 31 of them with plazas providing nearly five acres of publicly accessible open space. The study notes ''significant'' increases in the heights of buildings, as well as decreases in the size of floorplates and zoning lot coverage. Towers averaged 40 stories, instead of 30 to 32 in the original prototypical tower building.
IN a handful of situations, unusually tall and thin towers have been built behind plazas next to permanently preserved streetline buildings. One such is on view at 54 East End Avenue, at 82d Street, where a 40-story building has a tower occupying only 19 percent of its zoning lot. Older buildings on the zoning lot are preserved. Current zoning law provides a maximum of 40 percent of the zoning lot that the tower can occupy, but no minimum.
In another instance, on the southwest corner of 88th Street and First Avenue, a new 46-story tower building with 163 apartments and no plaza uses more than 50,000 square feet of unutilized development rights from its zoning lot to produce eight more 6,000-square-foot floors. About 75 apartments in the older abutting buildings are permanently preserved; ''contextuality'' is sacrificed.
But for those who argue for lower new buildings on the ground that they favor contextuality, there is the problem that along many blocks of the Upper East Side avenues the context has already turned to towers. And elsewhere it is hard to make a case for contextuality because existing housing is too diverse. Specific locations may be exceptional - East End Avenue, as an example - in which case the traditional zoning approach would be to identify contextual locations and zone them according to their context.
Another issue builders must consider is the marketability of space in the fat bases of East Side buildings. Views sell. But would buyers pay at least $300 a square foot to live on the fourth floor of a new building fronting on Second Avenue? Or even more important, would a building project on Second Avenue be economically feasible if, for example, 60 percent of the floor space had to be sold at the prices obtainable on the first 12 floors?
ANOTHER problem that arises with bases that are too bulky and towers that are too skimpy is that floor space is less effectively usable. Many rooms become too deep and too dark. But where contextuality is deemed the issue, some architects say, a base of 60 feet, or about five floors, would put a new avenue residential structure in context with a surviving five-story tenement nearby, while still allowing for a usable tower.
A strong case can be made for not growing too restrictive and narrow about the types of new residential buildings that can be designed for the broad eastern avenues of the Upper East Side, which even with no zoning changes might take decades to redevelop. The planners have tried to avoid that, while restricting the plaza bonus. But the discussion is only starting on what should be achieved in the way of new building design on the Upper East Side.

GRAPHIC: The new 46-story apartment tower at 88th Street rising above walkups on First Avenue. (The New York Times/Dith Pran)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY PLANNING, DEPARTMENT OF (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UPPER EAST SIDE (MANHATTAN); NEW YORK CITY; MANHATTAN (NYC)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; ZONING ZONING (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITIES (89%); RENT CONTROL (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S



484 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2356 words

HEADLINE: Linking 421a to Low-Income Housing

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

 BODY:
MOST of the people in the Spring Creek Gardens complex in the East New York section of Brooklyn earn considerably less than $20,000 a year, while those in the Belaire condo minium tower, on Manhattan's Upper East Side, make whatever is needed to buy half-million dollar condominium apartments and million-dollar penthouses.
Yet the two communities, so different in resources and life styles, are neighbors in a way, linked by law and a kind of municipal symbiosis. For the people in the Belaire, probably without knowing it, paid for the housing at Spring Creek Gardens. The Brooklynites, also unaware, will return the favor over the next 10 years by reducing the expensive con dominium development's real estate tax es through the city's 421a program.
The program works like this: A builder of low- or moderate-income housing re ceives from the city five transferable real estate tax abatement certificates for each unit of new affordable housing, or 3.3 certificates for each renovated apartment. 
That developer then covers much of the cost of building the low-rent housing by selling the certificates - currently for about $20,000 each - to builders of market-rate condominiums and rental apartments in Manhattan. For each certificate, the Manhattan developer gets a 10-year graduated tax abatement on one new apartment. He then recoups the cost of the certificates through the lower taxes and higher selling prices of the market-rate building.
More than 900 low-income apartments outside the prime Manhattan residential area are now in various stages of development under this program, but not entirely in the way the city had planned. When the trade-off was established in 1985, the city expected the tax abatements alone to raise enough money to pay for low-income housing, but the de velopers of big low-income projects such as Spring Creek Gardens have coupled the city program with the Federal Low Income Housing Tax credit.
Critics accuse the developers of low income housing of doubling subsidies and inflating their profits in this way, but the builders themselves insist that the city program alone does not produce enough cash to pay for the affordable housing.
Besides raising charges of ''double dipping'' by developers - one City Councilman calls it a giveaway - this practice has also meant that only housing for the lowest-income families, those making no more than $13,000 for a family of four, can be built under the rules of the Federal program. The city wanted moderate-income housing included in the 421a deal with developers, and the City Council recently amended the city law to require such housing in developments with more than 130 units.
MEANWHILE, the 421a tax-abatement certificates have quickly become big business, to the surprise of some city housing officials and the dismay of critics of the program, who fear the mounting cost - $177 million this year alone - to the city in lost taxes. With the certificates currently selling for about $20,000 each, the five-for-one formula works out to a cost to the city of $100,000 for each unit of affordable housing built.
General Atlantic Realty Corporation, which built Spring Creek Gardens, sold 184 of the 1,425 abatement certificates the development has generated to Zeckendorf Properties, which Zeckendorf then used to lower the taxes on the 184 condominiums at its Belaire at 524 East 72d Street. The Zeckendorf company then used the abatements as a marketing tool, lowering prices to draw customers while saving on taxes during construction.
''I think it's the finest program for the production of low-income housing in the country,'' said Philip E. Aarons, president of General Atlantic. ''It produces the highest quality housing at the lowest cost.''
The developers of Davidson Court, a new 38-unit low-income project built by Davidson Court Associates in the Mariners Harbor section of Staten Island, sold 200 of their tax abatement certificates to a second condominium project being built by Zeckendorf and Peter Malkin, another developer, on the corner of 72d Street and Broadway.
In some cases, the developer of low-income housing uses the certificates himself, as Lawrence Smiley, a partner in Lexington Avenue Properties, did with 71 of the abatements he gained by doing a gut rehabilitation of 32 apartments in an adjoining pair of city-owned apartments at 1130 College Avenue in the South Bronx.
The abatements, at the ratio of 3.3 to 1 for renovated low-income housing, have been transferred to Mr. Smiley's 72-unit high-end condominium at 127 East 30th Street, at Lexington Avenue, where they were used as a marketing tool. Part of the saving went to the buyers, Mr. Smiley said, and part came to him as higher profits.
Once the rehab is completed, it will be turned over to the South Bronx Community Management Corporation, a nonprofit group that will own the renovated property debt-free and operate it. Spring Creek Gardens in Brooklyn is being operated by Phipps Houses, another nonprofit housing management corporation.
The city imposed the linkage between low-income housing and market-rate housing in Manhattan south of 96th Street and north of Spring Street in 1985. Before then, developers were using the 421a abatements to build expensive apartments in Manhattan, a trend that brought the Koch adminsistration under fire from housing advocates for subsidizing housing for the rich.
Developers insisted then, as they do now, that the combination of taxes and higher development costs in Manhattan make the abatements essential for building even market-rate housing on the island.
The program is by far the more productive of the city's two that link the development of expensive housing with affordable housing, said Kenneth Lowenstein, deputy commissioner of the Department of Housing Preservation and Development. It is also more expensive, prompting a minor revolt in the City Council earlier this month against extending key portions of the law.
The other linkage program, called Inclusionary Zoning, gives 20 percent density bonuses to builders who create low-income housing near the building receiving the bonus. About 100 such units have been produced, all in the central Manhattan residential area to which it is limited, the city's housing agency said.
Mr. Aarons and his associates sold the tax-abatement certificates from Spring Creek Gardens for $28 million and paid the additional $4 million cost of the development from their own equity, recouping it and a profit - Mr. Aarons declined to say how much - by syndicating income tax credits granted the project by the Federal Government under its Low Income Housing Tax Credit program.
BESIDES Spring Creek Gardens, Davidson Court and Mr. Smiley's rehab project on College Avenue, the following 421a low-income projects have been approved for tax abatement trades by the Department of Housing Preservation and Development:
* Girard Gardens, a 121-unit new apartment building on Girard Avenue, just north of Yankee Stadium, the Bronx, by Victor Politis in partnership with Mr. Aarons.
* A 129-unit rehabilitation project involving three separate buildings on West 143d, 146th and 147th Streets by Jason Carter.
* A four-unit rehab by Izak Namer, developer, yet to begin work on 128th street.
* An 18-unit rehabilitation at 911 East 165th Street in the Morrisania section of the Bronx, by Elliott Hirschfeld.
Because the sale of the tax abatements, the 421a program pays almost all low-income housing construction costs. The developments are being turned over to their nonprofit sponsors for management mortgage-free. Rents therefore stay low, because they need only cover operation and maintenance.
Some City Council members have complained that the program costs the city too much in a time of fiscal austerity, considering that of the seven projects now completed or under way, four are new construction projects that use the Federal Low Income Housing Tax Credit program, which issues tax credits to investors in low-income housing.
This use of a Federal and city cross subsidy prompted Councilman Stanley E. Michels, a Manhattan Democrat-Liberal, to ask if the city is giving away millions in lost taxes to encourage housing that would be built anyway with Federal tax largesse.
''We're hearing that the Federal program is what's building these projects, so why the hell are we giving away $100,000 per apartment?'' he demanded in an interview.
The charge is an echo of the complaints made against the Koch administration in the mid-80's, when the 421a tax abatement was available for all apartments. The program had been started in 1972, when the city's economy was a mess and the rate of housing abandonment exceeded the rate of new construction.
But in the boom years of the mid-80's, the 421a program became an expensive public subsidy, the City Council concluded, for the construction of expensive private apartment buildings.
The Koch administration came under fire for the resulting expense in lost taxes on those buildings - a half billion dollars by 1985 - and the law was amended to exclude tax breaks for market-rate buildings south of 96th Street and north of Spring Street in Manhattan unless they were tied to low-income housing built outside that zone.
City officials and housing advocates defend the 421a program by arguing that housing might be built without the 421a subsidy but that the financing costs would be so high that rents would not be affordable to many tenants.
''Without 421a, there is no way you could build low-income housing without massive city subsidies,'' said Mr. Lowenstein, of the city's housing agency. ''With the program, the luxury developer pays for the construction of low-income housing instead of the city.''
But the luxury builder then takes his abatement from the city at the rate of $177 million for the current 1990 fiscal year, the largest residential tax abatement on the city books and a figure that has been rising steadily since the abatements were made ''portable'' between the low-income housing site and the luxury building in Manhattan.
In the 1987 fiscal year, the cost to the city of the program was $88 million in lost taxes; in 1988, it was $114 million, and for the 1989 fiscal year the figure was $151 million.
GEORGE ADRONIS, vice president of Phipps Houses, the nonprofit housing agency that manages Spring Creek Gardens, said that the issue was not just building apartments, but putting them on the market at rents that are affordable to the target population of low-income families.
''You wouldn't have seen those affordable units built without the 421a program,'' he said. ''To the extent that no one else is building affordable units now, there at 285 who are living at Spring Creek now who would either not have been able to find housing at all, or would be paying more in their rent than they could properly afford.''
According to an analysis of the 421a program by lawyers for the City Council, the city-Federal cross subsidy that developers have thought up on new building in Manhattan works like this:
The developer obtains an agreement from the city's housing agency to put up an affordable housing development outside central Manhattan, with the tax abatement certificates to be delivered when the units are occupied. On the strength of this agreement the banks make short-term construction loans, while the developer obtains rights to the Federal low-income housing tax credit, which is administered by the state.
The tax credit allows its holder a credit equal to about 9 percent of the development costs of a low-income housing project over a 10-year period. The tax credit is syndicated to other investors, each receiving a share of the credit proportionate to his share of the investment pool that, the program assumed, would go toward building housing for low-income families.
Under the cross-subsidy system instituted by developers in conjunction with the 421a program, however, the Federal tax credit produces not housing but profit - ''the whipped cream on the icing,'' Councilman Michels complained - because the market for city tax abatements has grown so lucrative.
Mr. Lowenstein of the housing agency said officials were surprised that the market for tax abatements would be so hot, but the reasons for this are plain: The abatements save $30 to $50 a square foot in development costs, depending on tax assessment. With overall development costs routinely hitting $400 or $500 a square foot, that is an important saving.
For developers, those savings on taxes and in construction borrowing - with fewer taxes due, borrowing needs diminish - spell the difference between success and failure in the Manhattan housing market.
''We have demonstrated that the developers of market rate housing in fact need the abatements for rental and condo project to work economically,'' Mr. Aarons said. ''Anyone who has been in the market knows that 421a is important for condos and essential for rentals because without them you cannot bring a project in at prices people can afford to pay. The combination of costs and taxes are just that high.''
TWINNING the city subsidy with the Federal program has produced another unexpected, and, to some, unwelcome, development. The Federal tax credit goes only to developments whose average tenant income is very low, no more than 60 percent of the city's median income of $20,280 for a family of four.
Since the 421a program is intended to produce housing for both low and moderate income families, those earning up to $30,000 a year, some affordable housing advocates and legislators who represent the new developments complain that the law is having the effect of creating housing segregation of the poor.
To meet the complaint, the City Council on Dec. 5 amended the law to require that in any 421a-subsidized low-income development of more than 130 units at least 20 percent of the units must be for moderate-income families. But officials say privately that the unavailability of the Federal subsidy for such housing will only keep developers away from that threshold.

GRAPHIC: The Belaire, luxury condominium tower on East 72d Street, and the Spring Creek Gardens complex in East New York for low- income residents; The two developments are linked by the 421a tax abatement program (The New York Times/Dith Pran, Nancy Siesel) (pg. 1); rendering of the Zeckendorf-Malkin condominium under construction on Broadway at 72d Street. At rear is the Ansonia; the Davidson Court Associates project for the elderly in the Mariners Harbor section of Staten Island (The New York Times/F.N. Kinney) (pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: ZECKENDORF CO (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; MANHATTAN (NYC); BELAIRE (NYC BUILDING); SPRING CREEK ESTATES (BKLYN, NY)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CONDOMINIUMS; RENTING AND LEASING; PROPERTY TAXES REAL ESTATE (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (91%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (91%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); FAMILY (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (73%); CITIES (70%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER



485 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 12, Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: >Study Finds Divorce Benefits Men's Incomes

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
DIVORCE in Connecticut, aside from its emotional drain, is a severe economic drain for women and children, but the financial picture for men improves, according to a new study.
The study, which was released last week, found a 16 percent drop in weekly income for each person in a woman's household after a divorce; the weekly income for each person in a man's household after a divorce increased 23 percent.
The report was commissioned by the Connecticut Women's Education and Legal Fund, the Permanent State Commission on the Status of Women and the Women's Research Institute of Hartford College. 
''It's a little early to talk about what this will mean for public policy,'' said Fredrica Gray, the executive director of the commission.''But we do know we'll be looking harder at child support enforcement and divorce mediation. We now have even more evidence of the poverty extant in Connecticut among women.''
 
Findings Are Disputed
Bob Adams, the president of the Divorced Men's Association of Connecticut, disputed the findings, which were based on court records of 1,566 divorces issued in 1980 and 1984.
''They make it sound like women are scraping by,'' Mr. Adams said. ''But things have been changing for years. Many women are out in the marketplace competing for jobs. All I know is, there are groups vigorously going after fathers for child support. Would they enforce a father's visitation rights as vigorously?''
Four judicial districts were included in the study: Fairfield, Hartford, New Haven and Windham. The researchers also conducted a random telephone survey of 400 people divorced in Connecticut since Jan. 1, 1980.
The court records showed that divorced men received $182 a week for every person in their households. Divorced women received $124 a week for every person in their households.
The study says lawmakers wrongly assume that most divorce settlements are fair to both parties in terms of money. Women usually received more than half of the family's pre-divorce income, but in reality, the study says, the costs of rearing children - coupled with the high rate of men who do not pay child support - put a huge financial burden on women.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR AZOV SEA FISHERY PROBLEMS (57%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY (57%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WOMEN'S EDUCATION AND LEGAL FUND, CONNECTICUT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: DIVORCE, SEPARATIONS AND ANNULMENTS; WOMEN; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS WOMEN (92%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); FAMILY LAW (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (89%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (89%); FAMILY (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRENDS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MEN (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 



486 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 34, Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: LONG ISLAND OPINION;
Give Families a Choice of Schools

BYLINE: By Daniel B. Walsh; Daniel B. Walsh is president of the Business Council of New York State Inc.

 BODY:
SIX years after studies first warned that mediocre schools make America a nation at risk, the need to improve schools is so dire that it drew some of the country's top leaders to a nationwide summit just a few weeks ago.
On Long Island, as this year's tax revolt has pointed out, there are twin imperatives for school reform: Reduce the crushing costs that threaten to impoverish many taxpayers, and help all schools reach the excellence that so many already display.
Half a decade of spending new billions of dollars in an effort to improve New York State schools, including those on Long Island, has proven that more money is not the answer. State school aid had increased by $3.3 billion in six years. That increase amounts to 71 percent, roughly three times the rate of inflation. Does anyone seriously argue that the results have been equal to the new costs? 
Because it must fight the twin battles of cost and quality, Long Island is in a good position to benefit from a concept that is already in use in several New York State school districts: public school choice.
Giving families a choice allows them to select the school whose program most closely meets their children's needs. Students who want to focus on science and math should be able to do so; those whose talents lie with the arts or language should have a chance to develop their abilities as well.
But another element of school choice is equally important: parents can choose a school they believe is not just different, but better. In other words, schools may compete to provide the best education for students. Businessmen and women know firsthand how competition leads to higher quality. The same force that pushes manufacturers to build a better mousetrap, and service industries to work harder for their customers, can be a strong impetus for schools to provide better education.
Community School District 4 in Manhattan is a good example. In the mid-1970's, the East Harlem district was an icon of what's wrong with many schools in New York. One year, only 7 percent of students in a district high school graduated. On the most widely used indicator of success, reading achievement levels, only 15 percent of students could read above grade level.
East Harlem was also one of the poorest communities in the United States, and remains so. Yet, in the last decade, District 4 has proven that even the toughest environment cannot kill the desire for excellence. As of 1988, its pupils ranked 16th academically among New York City's 32 community school districts - not in the top ranks, to be sure, but a significant leap from its last-place status a few years earlier. Two-thirds of students scored at or above grade level in reading. District officials give their school choice program much of the credit for the turnaround.
A handful of other districts in New York - Syracuse, Buffalo, Rochester and Yonkers - have also put choice into effect and have seen it pay off in a variety of important ways. Typically, school choice leads parents to become more involved with their children's schooling, a step that almost invariably leads to better education.
Without school choice, parents will not truly be involved in the kind of restructuring called for at the recent education summit. Most of the crucial decisions about children's education options will continue to be made by administrators rather than families. The poorer the family, the fewer the options that will be available for the children in school.
Parental involvement is not the only benefit of a well-designed school choice program. Attendance improves dramatically. Schools are able to offer a greater variety of programs that meet different needs and interests. Integration is made easier.
Many observers have called for merging some of Long Island's 126 school districts as one step toward more cost-effective education. Allowing parents to choose their children's school within larger districts would eliminate many of the concerns that have been raised about such a change. Together, consolidation and choice could let students select from a much greater menu of educational programs and approaches.
Regardless of the consolidation issue, the bottom line with public school choice is a simple one: Students learn more. That result is clear not only in higher scores on standardized tests, but in the testimony of the educators and parents who have experienced school choice.
Public school choice is a matter of simple fairness. Families should have the right to choose which school within a district is best suited to their children's needs. The lack of choice suggests that children are products of cookie cutters, that each learns the same way and has the same interests.
Yet parents know that each child has his or her own abilities and interests. Typically, in a school district that has a handful of elementary schools, and perhaps two junior high or high schools, each school building or program often develops particular strengths and weaknesses. Why should school districts' organizational structures ignore such variety?
If money were the answer to New York's - and Long Island's - education problems, we would have solved them billions of dollars ago. It is time that education policymakers at both the state and local level look for the kind of progress that can't be bought, the kind of progress that's possible through public school choice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL CHOICE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); RANKINGS (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INFLATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

PERSON: WALSH, DANIEL B



487 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 32, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: Geriatric-Care Managers Face Growing Demand

 BODY:
The graying of New Jersey described in John Paul Marosy's article, ''When the Aged Need Care, Their Families Need a Hand'' (Opinion page, Oct. 15), coupled with the anticipated growth of the state's economy resulting in an increasing need for qualified workers, causes a new concern in the workplace.
Seventy percent of all home care for the aged is provided by family members, the majority of whom are women, and 70 percent of women between the ages of 35 and 54 are employed outside the home. These facts point to the critical need - one that demographers tell us will grow into the 21st century - for a qualified network of geriatric-care managers who can provide the help that families will require to cope with the stress of work, separation of families, multiplicity of community services, a confusing array of benefits, frequently changing regulations and various options for alternative living arrangements. 
As Mr. Marosy states, some help is being provided by forward-thinking corporations whose employers are offering flex-time, caregiver leave and informational handbooks. Beyond that, families need individually tailored care plans for their elderly relatives.
Private geriatric-care management, a profession that has grown in the last decade in response to a need, takes the family from the information-gathering stage to the implementation and supervision of a care plan combining resources within the family with community resources. The ultimate goal is to help the elderly person maintain independence to the greatest extent possible.
In several counties in New Jersey, geriatric-care managers are directing small private agencies that provide such services. Some of these professionals are members of the National Association of Private Geriatric Care Managers, which is committed to assuring the highest quality of care through education, advocacy and high standards of practice.
When the aged need care, their families do indeed need a hand, and that hand is often available through the services of a geriatric-care manager.
 
ELEANOR S. RUBIN
 Older Adult Resources and Services Inc.
 
South Orange
 The writer is co-director of a private geriatric-care management agency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: AGED; LABOR GERIATRICS (90%); FAMILY (90%); AGING (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); FLEXTIME (78%); WOMEN (76%); WORKPLACE STRESS (72%); FAMILY LEAVE (71%); 

PERSON: RUBIN, ELEANOR S



488 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 32, Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: Updating Needed In 'Oil vs. Fish' Debate

 BODY:
Factual errors and flawed arguments pervade Thomas Belton's call for ''constructive debate'' on offshore oil and gas exploration off New Jersey's coast (''Oil vs. Fish? No, a Way to Have Both,'' Opinion page, Oct. 29).
Mr. Belton paints drilling opponents as extremists by comparing them with drill-at-any-cost extremists on the other side. But the middle ground that emerges from this skewed picture - drilling with safeguards - is in fact one side of the current debate. Even the most ardent drilling supporters accept that stringent safeguards are necessary. And opponents, far from being flaky fish-huggers, are raising serious questions about the economic and environmental sense offshore drilling. 
Mr. Belton cites the Georges Bank, the rich fishing grounds off the Massachusetts coast where limited exploratory drilling took place in the early 1980's, and the ''cooperative plan'' that required a monitoring program to assess impacts. ''Monitoring results to date,'' he concludes, ''indicate that the Georges Bank has not been significantly affected by drilling activity. The fishing industry continues to flourish side by side with the oil company rigs.''
Mr. Belton should update his files. The drilling on the Georges Bank ended some eight years ago (with no finds), after fierce interagency battles, and the fishermen have not had to share space with any rigs since then, partly because of several court decisions that halted planned lease sales because of the great risks and uncertain benefits of exploration.
In addition, I am sure Mr. Belton would agree that a short-term monitoring program, in a single field where no commercial finds were made, is hardly a basis for conclusions about the risks of oil drilling.
Tighter regulation and better technology are the answers, according to Mr. Belton. But his arguments beg the most important question in the current debate: whether offshore drilling in general, and off New Jersey in particular, should play an important role in our energy picture.
Energy development policy is already well developed. Opponents of oil drilling are calling for an overall national energy policy that emphasizes conservation and safer sources, so that residents of coastal states will not have to choose between the security of their fisheries and recreational resources and the uncertain benefits of oil drilling.
 
PAUL HAUGE
 Metuchen
The writer is a biologist who was a staff scientist for the Conservation Law Foundation of New England in Boston, which successfully challenged several planned Georges Bank lease sales.

GRAPHIC: Photo of an offshore oil exploration rig off the New Jersey coast in the 1970's (NYT/Eddie Hausner)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GEORGES BANK

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; OFFSHORE EXPLORATION AND INSTALLATIONS CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); OIL EXPLORATION (91%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); FISHERIES (77%); BIOLOGY (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%); 

PERSON: HAUGE, PAUL; BELTON, THOMAS



489 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 32, Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY OPINION;
Let's Reduce Hazardous Waste

BYLINE: By John H. Dorsey; John H. Dorsey, Republican of Boonton Township, is the Senate minority leader.

 BODY:
SOMEWHERE along Interstate 195 in western Monmouth County, on the stretch of highway between Trenton and Freehold, two huge wooden structures display graphic messages to passing motorists. Residents of this rural, undeveloped, horse-breeding region are, to say the least, unhappy with a proposal to site a hazardous-waste incinerator on one of the state's few remaining pieces of virgin land.
About 50 miles north, in a middle-sized blue-collar town where huge oil tanks and chemical companies dot the landscape between the truck-filled New Jersey Turnpike and the polluted Arthur Kill, billboards display similarly graphic messages. Residents of this overdeveloped, chemically saturated neighborhood, like their fellow New Jerseyans in Millstone, are opposed to the building of a toxic incinerator in their community. They believe that their area has suffered long enough from the effects of industrial pollutants. 
No one wants a hazardous-waste incinerator in his backyard. But until now, it was a foregone conclusion that if New Jersey was to continue to reap the benefits of a healthy economy and low unemployment, fueled to a great extent by industrial progress, the hazardous by-products of manufacturing, while the subject of strict regulations, would have to be tolerated.
State officials have spent at least a year arguing over whether it is safer to build incinerators in the wide-open, sparsely populated regions of the state - places like Millstone Township - or in densely populated areas like Linden. Placing these facilities at either location could be a death sentence for residents of the community and ultimately could lead to the deterioration of the municipality itself, which would most certainly lose its desirability as a place to live,work and raise a family.
A recent proposal by the Department of Environmental Protection, however, would change the focus of the problem from disposal of to minimization of the amount of hazardous waste produced, a far easier and more solvable problem with which to deal and one with which all of us, private citizen and public official alike, can live.
The source reduction approach is nothing new, and, as a matter of fact, has been touted as an alternative method of dealing with hazardous substances for several years by some members of the Legislature.
The department's plan to shift the focus of its anti pollution efforts to source reduction strategies for the industrial community highlights a series of Republican proposals that reflect a dramatic shift in strategies undertaken to preserve the environment for future generations.
The plan proposed by the Department of Environmental Protectionespouses the same theme as a package of bills introduced in the State Senate, but never acted upon, during the 1986-87 legislative session. The idea is that by reducing waste at its source, we can substantially prevent hazardous pollutants from entering the waste stream, cut down on our need for disposal space and save industry the expense of purchasing pollution control equipment, hiring personnel to monitor and operate it and researching methods of disposing of it.
Among the components of the legislative program were plans to implement an Office of Hazardous Waste Minimization and a Hazardous Substance Source Reduction Advisory Board, whose duties would be similar to those outlined by the Department of Environmental Protection for the Office of Pollution Prevention. Incentives, such as a more efficient and quicker permit process, were also part of this package, geared toward encouraging industry to use methods to reduce waste at its source as both a supplement and alternative to controlling it once it enters the waste stream.
In other words, this package effectively changes the focus from dealing with what's coming out of the pipeline to what's being done at the production line.
Source reduction is an economically sensible alternative that simultaneously addresses the need to protect the public safety and the need to protect jobs. It takes advantage of the latest technological developments and sets reachable goals for reducing the production of hazardous wastes.
Industry would benefit from reducing the generation of toxic chemicals because it would spend less money on purchasing, operating and maintaining pollution control equipment. These companies would also realize a saving in the transporting, storing and disposal of hazardous waste as well as in the analyzing, recordkeeping and personnel training involved. This is especially important since waste disposal costs are spiraling out of control; this is particularly true in regard to more volatile hazardous chemicals and substances. Minimization could also result in lower insurance liability for companies that handle hazardous materials.
Society would benefit from the efficient use and conservation of resources and energy and the reduced need for land disposal space.
Most importantly, the general public would benefit because health and safety hazards are reduced with smaller amounts of hazardous waste in the environment.
Unlike most plans addressing controversial issues, everyone comes out a winner with this proposal: industry, the Legislature and, above all, the public.
It is the type of plan that should be implemented as quickly as possible, regardless of political considerations. By decreasing the amount of hazardous waste generated, we will significantly reduce the amount of toxic substances that enter the atmosphere each day, poisoning our wildlife, polluting our lakes and rivers, damaging our green fields and putting further burdens on already deteriorating industrial centers and the inhabitants of the communities surrounding them.
The time has come for state environmental officials, as well as the State Legislature, to focus their attention on reducing waste at its source. By doing that, we can eliminate a serious threat to the health and well-being of the people and cities of the Garden State.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (91%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION, DEPARTMENT OF (NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MONMOUTH COUNTY (NJ)

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (92%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); POPULATION DENSITY (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); WASTE REDUCTION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (88%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (75%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (73%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (72%); WILDERNESS (72%); CHEMICALS (70%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (70%); CHEMICALS MFG (70%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); 

PERSON: DORSEY, JOHN H



490 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 22, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: THE WELL-STOCKED BRAIN ...

BYLINE: By JOSEPH SHENKER; Joseph Shenker if president of the Bank Street College of Education.

 BODY:

A FIRST DICTIONARY OF CULTURAL LITERACY
What Our Children Need to Know.
Edited by E.D. Hirsch Jr. and Michael Stanford.
Ilustrated. 271 pp. Boston:
Houghton Mifflin Company. $14.95.
The debate is not about Kermit the Frog versus the Three Little Pigs, Willie Mays versus Babe Ruth, or investment versus savings. Some of these terms are defined in E.D. Hirsfch Jr.'s well-presented new effort, ''A First Dictionary of Cultural Literacy'' and some are not. The issue is really whether our primary educational focus should be on rote memory of certain facts -- any facts -- or developing the tools and processes by which students learn. 
This new book, which succeeds Mr. Hirsch's philosophic treatise ''Cultural Literacy'' and its successor, ''A Dictionary of Cultural Literacy'', presents 21 neatly designed categories of terms, definitions, and concepts in such subjects as American history, geography, the natural and physical sciences, mathematics, literature and mythology. Accompanied by photographs, line drawings and well-made maps, this compendium was compiled with the assistance of hundreds of teachers, administrators and parents from all 50 states. According to the author, it represents nothing less than 80 percent of what every child should know by the end of sixth grade.
In essence, the Hirsch dictionary purports to add up to much more than the sum of its definitions. Not only does it propose to serve as a measuring stick for the youngsters' store of culture-based knowledge, but it also pretends to serve as a vehicle for a successful life. The subtitle proclaims directly and emphatically that these are the facts that students ''need to know.'' The introduction elaborates, stating that schools are widening the gap between haves and have-nots by teaching skills rather than facts, thus sending a clear if misleading message to parents: If your child knows these facts, he or she will be part of the ''haves'' society.
Underlying this book is Mr. Hirsch's belief that the lack of a common knowledge base is widening the gap between the privileged and underprivileged in our society with growing numbers of dropouts contributing to a growing underclass of have-nots. According to Mr. Hirsch, who teaches English at the University of Virginia, creating a body of facts, information and concepts that everyone learns in common would lead to greater ease of communication among all classes of people.
The problems Mr. Hirsch is concerned about are hardly new; they've been with us ever since the great wave of immigration at the end of the 19th century -- ever since, that is, we became a truly pluralistic society. And the debate about how to achieve community amid diversity is not new either. Then, as now, some argued for a set body of knowledge to be learned across the country, while others argued for a curriculum that was more locally determined and that took into account the needs and capabilities of the learners. Then as now, educational reform was seen as the care for social and economic ills.
Can we honestly put an entire country's economic shortcomings at the doorstep of our schools? Aren't there other major factors that have helped to create and in fact widen the gap between the privileged and the underprivileged -- factors like racism and the recent decline in funding for social programs, for example?
Mr. Hirsch also ignores a lot of what we know about how children learn. First of all, learning is active. Gone is the day when we naively believed that children were pure empty tablets waiting to be printed on, or empty receptacles to be filled (to use two common metahors). Children are active, curious, opinionated and selective. Tell a 7-year-old that a cloud is a mass of condensed water or ice particles (a term defined by Mr. Hirsch in the directory); and the child's eyes are bound to glaze over. But set up an experiment that demonstrates condensation, and the child is bound not only to become interested but to remember what condensation and clouds are all about. Experiencing the reality behind the concepts, an essential part of learning, insures understanding and knowledge that becomes a part of the learner.
Second, learning is social. Children learn in the classroom through interaction with their teachers and with one another. This back-and-forth human exchange about the curriculum provides motivation and excitement, helps children to be engaged in their learning, and supports them in their struggles to learn what they need and want to know.
Third, children come to school already knowing a great deal; they learn in many other places, and often they learn more profoundly there than they do in school. The confidence and self-esteem all children need in order to achieve and to become productive adults is more likely to develop in schools where their knowledge, their experiences and their cultures are respected and taken as a starting place for their schooling.
Addressing the issue of educational content without simultaneously considering processes whereby children learn creates an unnatural dichotomy. In learning, form and function are inseparable. Children need healthy, positive, common schooling eperiences, in additionn to a common curriculum core, if they are truly to acquire the kind of knowledge that will prepare them for the pluralistic society in which we live. Simply remembering the same facts will not produce a classroom of tolerant, curious and participatory citizens.
If one wanted to ignore Mr. Hirschs' assumption and look specifically at the definitions, there is no end to the arguments that one could have. For example, under United States Geography, Arizona is defined as ''a state in the Southwest.'' Is this definition an appropriate indicator of cultural literacy? If one is to know what Arizona is, shouldn't one know a little something about it -- that it is where the Grand Canyon is, or that it is populated, in part, by Navajos?
In sum, this dictionary is much less than it appears to be. Taken without its pretentious introduction and organization, the book is worthy of shelf space in the young reader's library -- just as a specialized crossword puzzle dictionary is useful for the crossword game. But beware of considering it as a trusty guide, index or dictionary for the pursuit of precise knowledge - for use by parent, teacher or child. And clearly, Mr. Hirsch's ''First Dictionary of Cultural Literacy'' is not a tool for a fulfilling, successful life.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: FIRST DICTIONARY OF CULTURAL LITERACY, A (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (93%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

COMPANY: HOUGHTON MIFFLIN HARCOURT PUBLISHING CO (93%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (94%); CHILDREN (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); HISTORY (74%); WRITERS (74%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (74%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (71%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: SHENKER, JOSEPH (DR); HIRSCH, E D JR; ROWLAND, WILLIAM G JR; STANFORD, MICHAEL MICHAEL R STANFORD (74%); WILLIAM HOWARD 'WILLIE' MAYS JR (58%); 



491 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 2; Page 41, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1941 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION;
The BBC Faces Up to Technology - and the Till

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
The British Broadcasting Corporation knows it is going to be in business at least thorugh 1996.
That appears to be the only certainty within the British broadcasting industry, which is now facing a competitive revolution wrought by legislative upheaval and advances in technology. Within the next three years, significant parts of the television and radio landscape in Britain could be dramatically altered. By the early 1990's, Britain will have another national television network and, for the first time, a national commercial radio network. Many of the broadcasting companies that have provided the best and the brightest of programs, which American viewers have come to associate with British television - for example, ''Brideshead Revisited,'' ''The Jewel in the Crown'' - could lose their broadcast licenses to companies more committed to good profits than good television. The BBC itself, feeling the pressure of ever-higher production costs, has begun aggressively marketing its programs to commercial networks all over the world and could soon go into business with CBS, ABC or NBC.
''Technology is inevitably making changes in British broadcasting,'' said Michael Checkland, the director-general of the BBC, in an interview during a visit to New York last month. 
For Americans to appreciate these prospects, it is necessary to keep in mind that the British television system is not direclty comparable to American television. At the moment, there are four national networks in Britain: two are run by the BBC; another, ITV, is made up of a consortium of regional broadcasting companies; the fourth, Channel 4 is a specialized channel created to promote quality and ethnically varied programming.
Both ITV and Channel 4 earn income through advertising, as the American networks do. The BBC, though its sweep is much greater (its programing reaches more than 90 percent of British homes), is roughly analogous to the Public Broadcasting Service in that it carries no commercials and is publicly supported. The BBC is financed by an annual fee - currently the equivalent of about $100 - on every household that uses television.
The changes to take effect in the early 1990's will have the most prominent effect on the television companies that make up ITV, such a Grenada and Thames - known in the United States for producing, respectively, such programs as ''The Jewel in the Crown'' and ''Rumpole of the Bailey.'' There are 15 regional broadcasting companies in the Independent Television Association (ITA), the organization that runs ITV. Proposed legislation calls for auctioning the frequency licenses of the ITV companies. The legislation would make it possible for a British company not previously involved in broadcasting to outbid an established ITV company and take away its license.
It would also mandate the creation of a fifth national television network in 1993.
All of these proposals are aimed at providing the British with a wider range of viewing options, already increased in recent years by the introduction of both satellite-delivered channels and cable television.
A factor driving these proposals, according to British broadcast analysts, is political ideology. Most of the forthcoming changes will spring from the broadcasting bill introduced into Parliament a week and a half ago by the Thatcher Government, which is intent on increasing competition among broadcasters. The Government has stated that it favors additional choices for British viewers and listeners; but the Government also clearly will take in considerable additional revenue from commercial broadcasters under the new legislation.
All this activity is taking place at the same time that expanding opportunities for selling English-language programming to new markets around the world are likely to lead to an increased number of co-production deals between British and American broadcasters. The BBC, already an active production partner with the Public Broadcasting Service, the Arts and Entertainment Channel and other American cable channels, is now talking to CBS, ABC and NBC, Mr. Checkland said, about co-producing entertainment series, both comedies and dramas.
What the eventual effect of all these changes on the home screen in the United States will be is difficult to project, but, like the BBC, all the existing British broadcast companies are seeking co-production deals with American broadcast companies and cable channels.
In hopes of navigating these currents of change, Mr. Checkland is trying to chart a course that preserves the BBC's economic stability as well as its traditional position of pre-eminence in British broadcasting.
''The threat we see is that the audiene will be more fragmented,'' he said. ''The test we see as we move into the next decade is whether we keep to a position of more than 90 percent of homes watching or listening to our programs week in and week out.''
The ''white paper'' recently issued by a Government committee examining the industry reaffirmed the BBC's ''special role'' as what it called ''the cornerstone of British broadcasting.''
The BBC is the offical broadcast service of Britain by royal charter, which expires at the end of 1996. The commercial broadcasters who make up ITV face more immediate cncerns - beginning with staying on the air. Each of the companies is licensed to broadcast to a specific area of the country. For example, in the case of the five main companies, Thames broadcasts to London during the week, while London Weekend - known to American viewers most notably as the producer of ''Upstairs, Downstairs'' - broadcasts in London during weekends; Grenada broadcasts to the northwest; Yorkshire, which sent ''Last Place on Earth'' to PBS's Masaterpiece Theater, broadcasts in the Yorkshire region, and Central (whose espionage series ''The Sandbaggers'' was shown on PBS) covers the Midlands.
The ITV companies have produced many outstanding programs, a consideration they would like to use to counter the Government's insistence that the franchises go to the highest bidders. Andrew Clark, a spokesman for the Independent Television Association, said in a telephone interview that the companies, fearful of new major non-broadcast companies in Britain armed with larger bankrolls than the relatively small ITV companies can call upon, hope to have the bill modified to put more emphasis on a broadcaster's qualifications.
All the companies are production studios as well; most could stay in business as programing sources if they lost their broadcasting licenses - though obviously in a much reduced capacity.
Some of the ITV companies are also trying to hold back on production costs to build up a war chest for use in the auction. But these companies face a difficult challenge: They must bid high to fend off competitors, but if they overcommit themselves, they risk depleting their programming budgets, making it harder for them to produce the quality programming they have promised.
''I would be concerned if the frachise application didn't have a very serious quality threshold built in,'' Mr. Checkland said. ''We believe that the BBC is better if it's challenged in all areas of programming. So, we wouldn't want to see the ITV companies moving away from areas like science and documentary programs.'' Clearly, the BBC would be concerned if the quest for commercial success - determined in Britain, as in the United States, by ratings - resulted in the kind of lowest-common-denominator progamming that the American networks have long been criticized for.
Yet, American programs have and will continue to play an important part in the BBC's schedule. Mr. Checkland said the current amount of American programming, rather arbitrarily set at 14 percent of the overall schedule, both for the BBC and ITV, will be maintained. For the most part, he said, the BBC looks to American programs to fill gaps in its schedule. That generally means children's shows, feature films and action-adventure series, which, he acknowledged, the American networks do far better than anyone in Britain.
So far no specific plan for co-production between the BBC and an American network is in place, Mr. Checkland said. During his visit to the United States last month, he met with the chief executives of the three commercial networks as well as with studio heads from Fox, Warner and Paramount. None of the networks has reported any significant developments from those talks so far. One network executive, who asked not to be identified, was skeptical of the value of co-production arrangements with the BBC. ''Americans still don't like anything with an accent,'' he said.
But Mr. Checkland said that raises in the annual BBC fee, which are tied to the retail price index in Britain, simply cannot keep up with labor and production costs. The BBC takes in more than $2 billion a year. But that's not enough.
Fortunately, the BBC finds that its programs are an avidly sought commodity in a growing market for programming. The BBC has the largest programming library in the world, more than 150,000 hours of material, and it has only begun to plumb the potential for sales. One reason is that until recently the BBC actually resisted marketing itself. ''When I started,'' said Mr. Checkland, who is 53 and is a 25-year veteran of the BBC, ''trade was considered improper.''
Now it's considered invaluable. Mr Checkland said that the income from the sales of programing would be plowed back into production costs.
The BBC sees oportunity in new technology as well. Home video is only beginning to be explored, and the potential is vast. Last year, the best-selling videocassette in Britain was a 20-year-old black-and-white children's program called ''Watch Your Mother.'' Nostalgia buffs bought up 350,000 copies.
Far from cowering at the threat posed by satellite systems, the BBC is entering into a series of deals with the satellite companies to share costs on purchases of major theatrical movies and sports events.
One experiment that intrigues Mr. Checkland is a late-night subscription service, which will provide specialized programming for audiences willing to pay a fee. (Most nights, the BBC goes dark after 1 A.M.) Already a series of medical shows has been sent out to doctors and others interested.
Mr. Checkland also forsees sports events produced in the newest television breakthrough, high definition, once that technology becomes available. The Wimbledon final, for example, could be replayed at 2 A.M. in high definition for those willing to pay to see it with the visual enhancement high definition promises.
As relieved as the BBC is about remaining relatively undisturbed by the changes soon to affect television, the corporation is at the center of the changes that will affect radio. Under the new standards the BBC's radio operations will face competition from a commercial network for the first time and will have to give up two of its networks to make room on the frequency dial for the new national network as well as more regional competition. The BBC will maintain its World Service, an all-news and information service that broadcasts in 37 languages and is also publically financed.
Assessing the realigned broadcasting terrain, Mr. Checkland called it ''an exciting and interesting time. It's clear what we've got to do. We've got to keep up the quality of our programs. That's what makes us distinctive.''
As the American networks learned in the 1980's, the challenge is to remain distinctive as audiences realise they can be more and more selective. In British broadcasting, that will be the story of the 90's.

GRAPHIC: A Berkshire cottage equipped with a TV satellite dish (Jonathan Player) (pg. 41); Michael Mr. Checkland (NYT/Bill Aller) (pg. 49)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ITV (LSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH BROADCASTING CORP (96%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (64%); INDEPENDENT TELEVISION ASSOCIATION LTD (51%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (95%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); LICENSES & PERMITS (69%); LEGISLATION (62%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (57%); 



492 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 29, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
Pop Operetta Set in a Diner on Christmas

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
BY now, theatergoers who favor traditional holiday fare may have had their seasonal share of the Scrooge saga. As ever, it seems that a slew of ''Christmas Carols,'' or variations thereof, were already under way just after Thanksgiving weekend, in community and college theaters. Most have passed, although there is still time, through next Sunday, to attend the McCarter Theater's annual Dickens extravaganza in Princeton.
And now, for something different. How about a modern morality urban pop operetta? It has a romantic air, a metaphysical twist, a synthesizer and a sidewalk Santa Claus who fights for - and gets - the girl. 
The title: ''Occupation: Troubadour.'' (That's Santa, whose real name is Al.) Written and composed by Bryan Williams, the piece began the fifth season of the Passage Theater Company when it opened on Wednesday at the Mill Hill Playhouse, where performances continue through Saturday.
The plot concerns a teen-age runaway (Mara) who is spending her first Christmas alone. She wanders into a diner. The only ones there are the owner-waitress (Harriet) and a local eccentric (the Duchess). An unscrupulous businessman (Steve) whose limousine has broken down comes in. The chauffeur is waiting outside.
And then there's the unemployed street musician, dressed as Santa Claus. Both men vie for Mara and indulge in an ideological argument over the real meaning of Christmas. To Steve, it's all about money. Enticed by Steve's show of success, Mara leaves with him, but quickly returns. After a strange turn of events, the audience is left to figure out whether Steve - or Al - was really there.
The message-bearing mini-musical piece, which lasts just over an hour, had its beginnings as a 10-minute exercise that Mr. Williams was commissioned to compose for a musical laboratory series sponsored by the New York Shakespeare Festival several years ago.
After Mr. Williams's play ''In This Fallen City'' was seen at the Passage Theater last season, Veronica Brady, the theater's artistic director, asked him to expand ''Occupation: Troubadour'' into a holiday musical, although it was not intended to be one in the first place.
The 36-year-old Mr. Williams, who began studying music at the age of 4, grew up in Wood-Ridge and attended Juilliard. His new comedy, ''I, Lionel,'' which he describes as a satiric look at growing up in New Jersey, is on the Passage Theater's schedule for June.
On the evolution of the current work, ''Occupation: Troubadour,'' he said: ''I wanted to create a joyous evening that would have something to say about contemporary conditions, about the loneliness of people - something that was all about values, in a holiday-like atmosphere. The whole score grew out of one song I had originally, 'Lonely Strangers' -and it goes off in different styles to suit the realities and the dreams of the characters.''
''The girl has a pop-style number,'' he added, ''the waitress, a jazzy one and a mock opera aria, and the Duchess sings in old burlesque style. Santa Claus has a folk ballad and the rich guy does 'Crocodile Rock' - it's supposed to be grating, because he's an aggressive character. And I'm on the synthesizer, which is better than out-of-tune violins.''
Ms. Brady, who staged the show, said: ''This is 'The Gift of the Magi' comes to Trenton - which is known for its diners. They feed the whole city, and this one is modeled upon Manuka's, which is right across the street from the theater.''
''The show is about choosing between good and evil, and maybe we could only get away with this kind of magical story during the holidays, but it feels right,'' Ms. Brady added. ''A lot of our young people are disenfranchised - and we see kids like Mara around here all the time. They hang out around here all the time. They hang out with us and they need direction. It ties right into this story.''
Ms. Brady, who has been teaching playwriting to teen-agers in a drug rehabilitation program here, said: ''Usually, the Passage Theater's work is more gritty. This time, everyone gets what they want - and they get it early on.''
About the musical's message, Mr. Williams said: ''Whenever the Christmas season starts, you know money is at the forefront - and when a young girl is forced to choose between notoriety, with riches, and just plain decency, what is she going to do - and what would her family support?
''We've come to accept poverty as pathology, instead of an accidental economic condition. I'm not trying to be philosophical, but I guess I'm asking, 'Is it still possible to give people something intangible for Christmas, something that brings out the dreams and the music in them?' ''
The Mill Hill Playhouse is at Front and Montgomery Streets. For tickets and a schedule of performances, call (609) 392-0766.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: OCCUPATION: TROUBADOUR (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCCARTER THEATER

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (93%); CHRISTMAS (92%); THEATER (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (88%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); FESTIVALS (76%); STREET ART (75%); SONG WRITING (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); THANKSGIVING (73%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); 

PERSON: KLEIN, ALVIN



493 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 2, Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: THE VIEW FROM: NORWALK;
City's Once-Hoped Boon to Revitalization Becomes Its Burden

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
NORWALK officials and residents are bracing for more bad news this week about the city's major tourist attraction, the Norwalk Maritime Center. The center is to present a financial report to the City Council on Wednesday and it is expected to show that the Maritime Center will need more money to survive.
The center, which opened in mid-1988, was supposed to attract as many as 700,000 visitors its first year, but the actual number was just over half of the goal. Now, it looks as if it will be years before the center can even begin to make payments on a $30 million loan Norwalk made to the center built. 
''I would think it's going to need some more money, in fact,'' said Mayor Frank J. Esposito.
Some of Norwalk's citizens, though, wonder whether the city should continue its support. The Norwalk Zoning Coalition, an affiliation of several smaller neighborhood groups, advocates a referendum before the city sinks any more money into the project.
''People are beginning to call it a white whale, instead of a white elephant,'' said Dolores Buzzeo, a member of the steering committee of the coalition.
''When taxpayers find out how much it's going to cost to keep this center open, they may want it to find some other way of supporting itself,'' Mrs. Buzzeo said.
Coalition members are also upset that the center, which has received so much public money, has not disclosed information about how its money has been spent, or how much of a deficit it has. Sarah E. Gorman, a lawyer who was on the City Council until last month, said the center has not even filed complete disclosure forms required of nonprofit corporations by the Internal Revenue Service.
''We haven't taken any position on how it should be handled because we can't make an assessment until we find out how much red ink it's actually bleeding,'' Ms. Gorman said.
The Maritime Center was proposed in the early 1980's as a means of revitalizing the blighted South Norwalk section of town, near the waterfront.
It opened in mid-July of last year, with 20 fish tanks, a seal pen, a large-screen theater for maritime films and display areas for rotating exhibits.
 
$30 Million in Bonds
Norwalk sold $30 million in bonds to help build the project, and the center was supposed to raise $6.5 million privately, and $1 million from government grants. Earlier this year, the city gave the center $300,000 for advertising. The center is to release a report on how close it has come to its goals, and its first-year financial results on Dec. 20.
How long it will be before the cen ter is self-sustaining ''depends on what you call self-sustaining,'' said Dr. Vilma P. Allen, the executive director of the center. ''Certainly it will be quite a while before we can start paying the debt.''
But, she said, an optimistic estimate of current operations is that the center's revenues come within 10 percent of its expenses.
In addition, she said, the center is seeing a large volume of repeat visitors for its school programs, lecture series and cruises aboard its research vessel, the 40-foot Oceanic.
 
Inadequate Marketing
Dr. Allen, who took over in May, said part of the problem was marketing. The $300,000 spent this year was the center's first campaign, she said.
''That should have been done a year or two years before the facility opened,'' Dr. Allen said. ''When we opened, no one had heard of us, and we've been playing catchup ever since.''
Membership, though, is approaching 6,000, ahead of expectations, she said, and attendance is expected to climb from 372,000 the first fiscal year to 420,000 this year, and continue increasing 10 to 15 percent a year for the near future.
Mrs. Buzzeo was on the council at the time the city agreed to finance the center, and was opposed at that time.
 
Missed Fund-Raising Goals
''I said it wasn't going to be financially stable, but I'm not happy to see my predictions come true,'' Mrs. Buzzeo said. ''Even if attendance had met projections, they wouldn't have been able to meet their debt service.''
She said the center had also fallen short of its fund-raising goals, although just how short, the coalition has been unable to determine. In any event, consultants had said the first year would be the best for fund raising, Mrs. Buzzeo recalled.
''If it wasn't all that good this year, what can we look forward to?'' Mrs. Buzzeo asked. ''No big sponsors, either corporations or individuals, have come forward.''
Ms. Gorman said she was also disturbed that, until recently, five of the nine members of the Maritime Center Authority, organized to watch over the city's interest, were also members of the Maritime Center's board. The number of people on both boards has dropped to two.
 
Situation Is Improving
''What kind of a watchdog is that?'' Ms. Gorman asked. ''It's really not appropriate to have that kind of overlap.''
But Dr. Allen said despite some initial problems, the Maritime Center's situation was starting to improve, with a growing membership base and an increasing number of visitors. ''The problem at the start was everyone was wildly optimistic, too optimistic,'' Dr. Allen said.
Mr. Esposito, who is a member of the center's board and the city's authority, agreed. ''I think we expected too much too soon, and everybody got downbeat when it didn't live up to expectations.'' ''I wasn't here when the initial decisions were made, and it would be easy for me to say, 'I wouldn't have done it,' '' Mr. Esposito said. ''But it's here now, and I'm going to do everything I can to make it succeed.''
Mr. Esposito also credited the Maritime Center as one of the reasons developers have started the $70 million Maritime Square office project in South Norwalk, and the reason another developer has proposed 300 apartments and 35,000 square feet of retail space in the long-vacant South Norwalk railroad station.
''You have to look at what it's doing for the city, for its economy, for its grand list,'' Mr. Esposito said. ''If you look at the broader picture, I don't think it's as bleak as people are making it out to be.
''It takes time for something like this to get on its feet. The hope is in a few years, it will be self-sustaining, but for now there's no easy way out of it.''
''Whatever has to be done has to be done,'' he added, ''because we can't let it go belly up. We've got to protect our investment.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of the Maritime Center in Norwalk; Mayor Frank J. Esposito (NYT/Alan Zale)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORWALK MARITIME CENTER

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORWALK (CONN)

SUBJECT: FINANCES CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ZONING (73%); MARINE MAMMALS (71%); MOVIE THEATERS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); REFERENDUMS (53%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A



494 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 2, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: LONGPORT JOURNAL;
History's Echoes in a Town Changed by Storms and Wealth

BYLINE: By JAMES RUTHERFORD

DATELINE: LONGPORT

 BODY:
RESIDENTS of this seaside town have weighed equity against history - and history has come up light.
That was evident in Mike Cohen's face as he bent over a cardboard U-Haul box one recent gray morning and lifted out and unwrapped its contents. Mr. Cohen's face shone in the dark of the Guild Hall of the Episcopal Church of the Redeemer. The windows were shut tight against the rain blowing in off the mainland. They locked in the dampness and the smell of mildew and rotting newsprint.
The Longport Historical Society's museum is stored away for the winter in a few boxes and wooden crates, alongside stacks of the Book of Common Prayer and piles of hand-held wicker fans, also in winter hibernation - no more than a couple of loads in Mr. Cohen's Ford Bronco. 
Mr. Cohen speaks of Longport and its history with the admiration of a tourist, which, in a way, he remains. Mr. Cohen, a successful Pennsylvania marketing research consultant who is president of the Longport Historical Society, collects things like boardwalk rolling chairs, nickelodeons, old sheet music and Atlantic City postcards.
But the prize of his collection is one of the last of the lavish Victorian cottages built at the turn of the century on this tiny spit of sand at the southernmost tip of Absecon Island. The house towers three stories above the concrete sea wall and the few yards of beach still left. The exterior retains its white frame charm. Mr. Cohen has completely remodeled the interior. He comes down from Feasterville, Pa., two days a week.
He looked down suddenly at the cardboard boxes and frowned. ''I think I have to get this stuff out of here,'' he said. ''It's just too damp. I didn't realize it was going to get so damp so quick.'' He also acknowledged that it is wealth, not mildew, that is devouring Longport's memory of itself. Another frown came to his face.
Tucked away in the shadow of Atlantic City's casinos five miles to the north, Longport happens to be half a square mile of some of the most desirable and expensive real estate on the New Jersey coast. The average resale value of a house here is $438,000, nearly three times higher than in the North Jersey-New York metropolitan area.
Consequently, seasonal residents, investors and developers are tearing down and rebuilding the appearance of the borough faster than Mr. Cohen and the society can keep up. And they are doing it almost as dramatically as the violent northeasters and the hurricanes of 1944 and 1962, which all combined over the years to pull down the huge old cottages, the boardwalk and the amusement pier and pushed the better part of 10 blocks across Great Egg Harbor Inlet to Ocean City and buried the rest under water.
To the borough, the development has been a windfall. With the assessed value of residential property alone exceeding $260 million, the tax rate has been stable for years at about $1.50 for every $100 in assessed value, the lowest in Atlantic County. Half of the year-round population is over the age of 55. There are few children whose education needs to be financed.
There are also no slums, no rundown summer rentals and no supermarket. The total of Longport's commercial life, aside from the Arco gas station at the entrance to town, is contained in three attached stores - a Wawa convenience store, Ozzie's Diner and a liquor store. After that, there is only the venerable Longport Inn, a cozy landmark with live lobsters in tanks of murky green water and with casino executives, lawyers and politicians at tables with white linen tablecloths.
Howard Kupperman, a lawyer and the Mayor, said: ''We do not intend or hope to increase that in any way. The town fathers want to keep it residential.'' Mr. Cohen said, ''It's just a lovely little town.'' But some say there is a blot on this otherwise serene scene. The modern, streamlined palaces that have replaced the old gingerbread and latticework ones - flat-roofed structures that are efficiently divisible into income- and tax-producing duplexes, triplexes and quadplexes - are covering the oceanside and crowding out the trim bungalows and Cape Cods along cozy Risleys Channel on the opposite side.
''The people who are year-round residents are upset,'' Mr. Kupperman said. ''They want single-family homes on single lots, detached. The seasonal people want to cram as much building into a lot as they can. Those who are affluent enough to pay $1 million for a beach-block lot and another $2 million to $4 million to develop it - what can you say? These are great people. They don't have children. It's not as if they represent a tax burden. This is difficult for the locals to understand. The importance of a view is not something that can be understood.'' Then there was the warning that the State Division of Coastal Resources issued a few years ago: that rising ocean levels and eroded beaches leave Longport as vulnerable as ever to major storms. The division recommended limiting, not encouraging, more density; enforcing deeper setbacks of property from the sea wall, which the borough will have to maintain at ever-increasing cost, and preserving more beachfront as open space. But, Mr. Kupperman said, ''we couldn't comply.'' ''Longport is pretty much all developed,'' he said. ''There was nothing we could do. We couldn't tell people, 'Tear down your lots.' ''
There are not many people left who remember the storms or the boardwalk or the pier, and only a few who remember the 10 blocks that no longer exist. The historical society tries to remind them of the borough's past through the publication of an annual newsletter. And there is the high point of the society's activities - the reopening of the museum in the summer in the Guild Hall of the Church of the Redeemer.
Thirty or 40 people might turn out on a Sunday afternoon. The gray folding chairs are opened and arranged in five neat rows for Mr. Cohen's homemade videotape presentation. Mr. Kupperman takes a seat next to Richard DePanphlis, the former police chief, and two members of the Borough Commission, Bill Fiore and Frank Toner.
Mary Sue Lovett, the museum's curator, would be there, and so would Billy Krechmer, a retired bandleader and a museum trustee, who had a gazebo built in the center of town and named the Krechmer Gazebo in honor of his parents. Assemblywoman Dolores G. Cooper, Republican of Atlantic City, might show up, and maybe a few curious summer residents or a tourist.
Afterward, there is time to stroll among the lead and wood and porcelain curios in the glass cases; to stop at the faded photographs, bleached yellow like the sunny sky outside - photographs of broad sand dunes, of an old farmstead, swallowed, like a little Atlantis, by the sea; to admire ancient framed pressings of marine flora; to feel the warm ocean breeze by the open windows and to smile and greet one another.
Mr. Cohen may know how much this event resembles a dutiful visit to an old aunt, how everyone wants to be assured of a pleasant stay and will come back as long as the aunt is not going to become a burden.
''It would be nice if they had some incentive to preserve the town the way it was,'' he said. ''Now it's a question of how you are going to get the most value for a property. I guess you can't stop change. We try to preserve memories. It's not economically feasible to save a lot of the rest.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of Mike Cohen by the Episcopal Church of the Redeemer, home to the Longport Historical Society museum (NYT/Ray Fisk)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONGPORT (NJ)

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL HISTORY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (74%); CITIES (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (71%); WEATHER (71%); HOME PRICES (65%); MUSIC (52%); 

PERSON: RUTHERFORD, JAMES



495 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International A3-15
 
An overhaul of Poland's economy was proposed by the Solidarity-led Government. The far-reaching legislative program would break monopolies, cut subsidies and turn industries over to the private sector. Page A1
 
Andrei Sakharov was mourned by thousands in Moscow. His wife, Yelena Bonner, presided over the ceremony, directing the ordinary citizens who saw him as a symbol of human rights and the policemen who once hounded him. A1 
 
News analysis: Sakharov's legacy in Soviet politics remains uncertain. President Mikhail Gorbachev's muted response to his death raises the question of whether the nation will follow in the direction Sakharov envisioned. A15
 
Moscow raced America to the moon. After years of denial and silence, Soviet officials disclosed to visiting American engineers details of their unsuccessful effort to be the first to land men on the lunar surface. A1
 
East Germany's Communist Party announced it would forfeit its monopoly on political power and compete in the May 6 elections with emerging democratic forces. A1
 
News analysis: A confessional congress breaks with Stalin A14
 
Thousands marched in Prague to commemorate the beatings of protesters last month, but the rally soon evolved into a demonstration of support for Vaclav Havel's bid for the presidency. A15
 
Eastern Europe market: Big lure and many hurdles D1
 
Rumanian security forces battle thousands A14
 
A witness to the killing of six priests in El Salvador last month said she was repeatedly accused of lying by U.S. and Salvadoran investigators and threatened with deportation. U.S. officials denied the charges. A1
 
A U.S. soldier was shot in Panama by Government troops. The White House said the killing was part of a pattern of aggression by Gen. Manuel Noriega and would not rule out a military response A7
 
U.N. asks for role in Latin talks for U.S., Soviets and Cuba A6
 
Brazilians voted for a new president in a runoff election that was too close to call. Fernando Collor de Mello, a free-market advocate, held a small lead over Luis Inacio da Silva, a Socialist, with 40 percent of the vote counted. A3
 
Killing a Colombian drug trafficker was only possible with the help of a mid-level trafficker extradicted earlier this year and tips from Colombians seeking a reward, an offical said. A3
 
Reporter's Notebook: Why is all of Chile laughing? A12
 
A curfew in India's Kashmir valley was imposed for the third day, as Government troops moved onto the streets of the Muslim region to quell pro-independence protests. A5
 
India's homespun chic (nothing imported) A11
 
West Bank Arabs keep a court system intact A10
 
Khmer Rouge transfers refugees from camps in Thailand A9
 
Pope criticizes Hong Kong on deportations of Vietnamese A13
 
National A16-17, A20, B7-14
 
A Federal judge was killed when a package mailed to his suburban home in Alabama exploded. F.B.I. officials said they had unearthed and were following a number of leads. A1
 
Judge praised as a man of moderation and wisdom B11
 
The underworld of hate and racism lived by America's white supremacists is being vividly portrayed by a former neo-Nazi in Phoenix. Having renounced his membership in the White Aryan Resistance, he now lectures against racism. A1
 
Drug tests for transport workers in the private sector will begin today. The first round of random testing for millions of railroad workers, mariners and bus and truck drivers is expected to refuel the debate over invasion of privacy. B9
 
A giant balloon will circle Antarctica on a trail-blazing, 15-day flight. The balloon, the largest ever launched on the continent, will carry four scientific experiments. B9
 
Archeological trove of fossils found in Virginia B12
 
Pennsylvania county judge is found guilty of corruption A20
 
Is the ''midlife crisis'' just a myth? A psychologist who heads a new study on the issue says there is a lack of evidence for the all-purpose explanation for divorce, bankruptcy and other midlife woes. A16
 
The long-enduring Salvation Army, the unusual Christian denomination organized along military lines and devoted to relieving suffering, is no less dedicated to saving souls. A16
 
Study finds housing crisis in rural America A17
 
Arizona Governor under fire for action on killers A16
 
Rescuers reach family trapped below Alaskan volcano B14
 
Spying or consumer research? Observing the habits of consumers, sometime without their knowledge, has become a standard practice for many large corporations and advertising agencies. A1
 
Sales of costume jewelry sparkle D1
 
Airlines cleared of rigging their reservation systems D1
 
Regional B1-6
 
Presbyterian Hospital faces a crisis that threatens its survival as a teaching center. Because it serves some of the city's poorest patients, many of whom have no insurance, its resources have been badly sapped. B1
 
The sale of Rockefeller Center to a Japanese company, one in a series of well-publicized deals for pieces of the American landscape, has been a source of many jokes, but has also made some Americans anxious and angry. B1
 
Messinger picks 'cabinet' aides in Manhattan borough post B6
 
A neighborhood battle: Apartments or a park? B3
 
Frosty temperatures motivate park runners B3
 
A housing ban for welfare recipients in four Suffolk County hamlets has been approved by the County Legislature. Critics say the measure is unconstitutional. B1
 
Rutgers University's new prestige is the result of a carefully planned campaign led by its president, Dr. Edward J. Bloustein, who died Dec. 9, to shed its second-class image. B1
 
New York State newspapers to increase use of recycled paper B5
 
New subway discounts for handicapped and elderly B3
 
Neediest Cases B5

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); INDIA (92%); POLAND (92%); ASIA (79%); PANAMA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); ROMANIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); THAILAND (64%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MONOPOLIZATION (77%); GENOCIDE (76%); REFUGEES (76%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); DEPORTATION (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (64%); RELIGION (64%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (62%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%); 

PERSON: ANDREI DMITRIEVICH SAKHAROV (73%); MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (57%); VACLAV HAVEL (55%); 



496 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Seattle Journal;
In Defense Of Quirks, A Market And a City

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Dec. 17

 BODY:
The streak of regional chauvinism that is running through this city as it copes with hyperactive growth has generally targeted Californians, who make up one of every five newcomers to the Seattle area. New Yorkers, by and large, have been spared.
But that abruptly changed this month when it was revealed that this city's most cherished institution, the Pike Place Market, is owned by New York investors.
And the investors, who have been silent since they bought the 11 historic buildings on a bluff overlooking Puget Sound in the early 1980's, now say they want a better return on their money. 
To many of the hundreds of merchants who hawk king salmon, footlong clams, winter pears, hand-knitted sweaters and other treasures of the Pacific Northwest from their stalls in the Pike Place Market, the call for higher profits was a straitjacket for the market's quirky character.
Suddenly, the newspapers were full of New York-bashing sentiment, and public meetings overflowed with residents demanding that ''our market'' be bought from the absentee owners.
''Let's buy out New York and send them home!'' Robert Wilmot said at a loud and angry meeting of Pike merchants last week.
A cartoon in one newspaper showed the market's landmark clock changed to Eastern standard time and a neon light blinking: ''Produce . . . or else.'' A columnist for the Seattle Times envisioned the market with a New York theme, complete with outlets for Donald Trump, Leona Helmsley and Ivan Boesky.
The investors, from a Manhattan-based property management firm, the Urban Group, have tried to reassure the city that they have no intention of changing the Seattle landmark. The chaotic, personal nature of the market is what makes it a draw to more than 15 million tourists a year, said Arthur Malman, a vice president of the group. Any tampering would hurt the investment, he said.
Mr. Malman said the Urban Group bought the buildings as a tax shelter. From an initial $3 million payment in the early 1980's, the investors have gained about $10 million in tax writeoffs, he said. But recent changes in the Federal tax law make it harder for investors to get a good return on aging buildings.
The furor here illustrates a larger issue of how historic districts can balance their need for outside money with their desire to remain basically unchanged.
The Urban Group, which manages historic buildings in cities around the nation, ''does not seek quick profits,'' the investors said in a letter to Pike Place merchants, but the group does seek ''a fair economic return on the rental of our Pike Place Market buildings.''
Just how to increase the profit margin is a matter of much debate. Mr. Malman said the Pike Preservation and Development Authority, a quasi-public corporation that acts as the market's Seattle landlord and manager, should reduce overhead costs and perhaps raise rents. The Urban Group has hired Arthur Anderson and Associates, an accounting firm, to conduct an audit.
The preservation authority, which sought out the New York investors, also provides day care, meals and housing for the poor and elderly in the market area. The authority says it cannot reduce its costs without cutting back on social services.
The market opened in 1907 as a way for farmers and fishermen to sell directly to consumers, and it has never been short of defenders. Its vibrant pulse has inspired artists like Mark Tobey and writers like John Steinbeck.
In the early 1970's, when the Downtown Seattle Association, a business group that has promoted high-scale development, wanted to tear down the market, an overwhelming majority of Seattle citizens voted to save it and designate it a historic district.
A tony new market, the Westlake Center, has since been built a few blocks from the Pike market. And defenders of the Pike market are worried that the demand for higher profit will push the Seattle landmark in the direction of Westlake.
''We're not looking for a Westlake,'' Mr. Malman said, in a meeting with merchants. ''The market's a special place, a community. We're just looking for more accountability.''
But many of the merchants vowed that the market will never answer to a new bottom line.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); WEST USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (78%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC CORP FOR IRRIGATION & EXCAVATION (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: URBAN GROUP; PIKE PLACE MARKET (SEATTLE)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SEATTLE (WASH)

SUBJECT: HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (72%); WRITERS (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); TAX LAW (61%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY DONALD TRUMP (67%); 



497 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: The Editorial Notebook;
It's Not Japan's Fault

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. WEINSTEIN

 BODY:
Everybody knows how to solve the nation's trade imbalance: buy less from the Japanese and get them to buy more from the U.S. This seemingly sensible prescription is featured daily in virtually all the news media. Repeated often enough, it assumes the status of a canon of correct thinking.
But what everybody knows just ain't so. The trade deficit is the mirror image of excessive spending. As long as Americans collectively buy more than they produce, the U.S. must import the difference. Restricting imports from Japan might lower the trade deficit with Japan, but do nothing to reduce the overall trade deficit unless consumption was curbed. Otherwise, imports from other countries would just take the place of those from Japan. 
The implication for policy is profound. Acting nasty toward the Japanese and other trade partners is no solution. Yet that's exactly what the new U.S. trade law does. The United States threatens to retaliate against nations that engage in trading practices it unilaterally decides are wrong. That's saber-rattling. Unrelated to domestic consumption habits, it cannot cure the trade deficit. But it will undermine America's commitment to universal trade rules.
The new law replaces a set of reciprocal obligations with what the trade expert Jagdish Bhagwati of Columbia University calls ''the law of the jungle.'' Bullying might pry open foreign markets. It is more likely to trigger retaliation, from which every nation will lose.
Bluster will not reverse the U.S. trade imbalance. Raising domestic savings will. That requires hard choices and sacrifice. The surest way to increase domestic savings is to lower the Federal budget deficit, which offsets private savings by individuals and corporations. This must be done carefully. It makes no economic sense to gut public investments in education, research and infrastructure that determine future capacity to produce.
To do the job right, Congress will have to restructure taxes, to penalize consumption and reward savings. It knows how. It could raise the Federal gasoline tax and resurrect universal deductions for individual retirement accounts. No one policy change will dramatically alter personal savings. But a combination of many wise changes will, over time, make a difference.
Blaming the Japanese isn't even accurate, let alone effective. Dr. Bhagwati, citing recent research, finds no compelling evidence that the Japanese in fact import less than their fair share, no matter what everybody thinks they know. What Congress needs to recognize is that blaming Japan misdirects both blame and policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); SAVINGS GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); BUDGETS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); CONSUMPTION (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); GASOLINE (69%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (69%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (64%); TAX REFORM (62%); FUEL TAX (62%); 

PERSON: WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M



498 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: How New York Can Tap A Medical Reservoir

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I recently had a discussion with several physicians whom I had met at a social engagement. These men were retired and indicated that if they could afford to pay for the current required malpractice insurance, they would likely contribute their time on a free and voluntary basis at some hospital or medical institution. 
However, because they can't pay the very high insurance cost, they cannot offer their services nor will any hospital engage them.
It seems to me that a great reservoir of experienced medical talent is being untapped. I believe it would be to the interest of society to have New York State provide an insurance fund so that such volunteers would be covered and the public would benefit from their care and experience.
It would be clear that these physicians would then probably furnish their services to an economic segment of the community for whom very active physicians with lucrative practices would most likely have neither interest nor time to provide services.
 
MAX MASON
Spring Valley, N.Y., Dec. 6, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DOCTORS; MALPRACTICE INSURANCE; MALPRACTICE; VOLUNTEERS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 



499 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Getting Ready to Beat Swords Into Plowshares

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Defense Cuts: Little Pain, Modest Gain'' says the headline on Gordon Adams's examination of the proposed military budget cutbacks of Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney (Op-Ed, Dec. 4). Yet, past and announced layoffs have hit more than 30,000 defense workers. Many more workers will suffer as the growth in the military budget comes to a halt. 
The areas hit by these cutbacks extend far beyond the areas identified by Mr. Adams and include not only military regions in Long Island, Seattle, Los Angeles and Dallas-Fort Worth, but also Colorado Springs; Marietta, Ga.; Lynn and Pittsfield, Mass.; St. Louis; Evandale, Ohio; Philadelphia, and Plainfield, N.J. Laws on the books have not saved defense worker jobs in these areas, and so more extensive Federal intervention is required.
A key issue is to ready military facilities for civilian work by having civilian plans blueprint-ready before military cutbacks are announced. Mr. Adams discusses the need for retraining, relocation assistance, income supplements and job search programs. These provisions, along with civilian planning for military industrial facilities, laboratories and bases, are found in the defense economic adjustment bill (H.R. 101), sponsored by Representative Ted Weiss. Without this measure, we will be economically unprepared to match the large-scale military cutbacks that easing cold-war tensions requires.
Mr. Adams fails to recognize the potential long-run gains of such a measure for the economy. These gains will come when the 30 percent of our scientists and engineers engaged in military pursuits are channeled into new jobs to rebuild the country's damaged technological and physical infrastructure. And, like the Soviet Union, we too are facing tremendous budget deficits that warrant significant military budget reductions. Marginal military cuts have displaced thousands. We need new policies to insure that a future peace economy brings more than modest gain without associated economic difficulties.
 
JONATHAN FELDMAN
Washington, Dec. 4, 1989
 The writer is program director, National Commission for Economic Conversion & Disarmament.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: DALLAS-FORT WORTH SUBURBAN NEWSPAPERS INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC CONVERSION & DISARMAMENT, NATIONAL COMMISSION FOR

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DEFENSE CONTRACTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY DEFENSE SPENDING (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); WRITERS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); MILITARY BASES (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (69%); DISPLACED PERSONS (65%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (64%); TEST LABORATORIES (52%); 

PERSON: FELDMAN, JONATHAN DICK CHENEY (73%); 



500 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: ESSAY;
One Good Man

BYLINE: By William Safire

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
''Profound thoughts arise only in debate, with a possibility of counterargument,'' the great dissident wrote clandestinely in 1968, ''when there is a possibility of expressing not only correct ideas but also dubious ideas.''
Sakharov (no honorific or first name needed now; he ranks with Gandhi and Einstein, whose roles he uniquely combined) drew confidence from the conviction that truth emerged from the clash of open minds.
Mikhail Gorbachev, whose need for Sakharov's untainted record and world prestige brought the scientist back from the torture of isolation, was not as confident. This was the ''debate'' between them at the party congress last year about reducing the size of the Red Army:
Gorbachev: Anyway, finish up, Andrei Dmitriyevich. You've used up two time allotments already. 
Sakharov: I'm finishing. I'm leaving out arguments. I have left out a great deal.
Gorbachev: That's it . . . That's all. Take away your speech, please. I ask you to sit down. Turn on the other microphone.
Just before Sakharov died, he was attempting to debate the idea - so dubious to the man in control - of ending the corrupt party's monopoly of power. But Mr. Gorbachev's imperious ''that's all!'' cut him off again. Debate was dangerous.
Later, with the best man in Russia safely dead, apparently (an adverb that cannot be left out) of a heart attack, the Soviet leader raced to hail ''an honest man who suffered great injustice.''
His funeral will be a field day for such hypocrisy, as his longtime silencers hurriedly ''get right with history'' in eulogizing the man they long tormented and lately tolerated. The Kremlin denied Natan Sharansky, an emigrated dissident Sakharov helped set free, a visa to attend; Mr. Gorbachev will handle the official mourning. (The Bush Administration is sending a low-level delegation, claiming that is what the Sakharov family wants. I wonder about that; a downplaying of our concern for human rights is what Mr. Gorbachev wants.) A deeper question arises: What kind of justice blesses tyrants like Pol Pot, Castro and Ceausescu with longevity while a crusader for freedom is snatched away at the crucial moment?
That issue of the suffering of the sinless was raised by the near-heretical poet who wrote the book of Job, and answered with a refutation of the pious notion of divine retribution. Don't look to God for justice; life is unfair. Cherish instead the God-given right to challenge unjust authority.
Perhaps that reflects the mixture of dismay, puzzlement and anger of millions of freedom-lovers at the sudden destruction of this generation's Job. Freedom is the most personal of matters; that makes the loss of the person who exemplified the gutsy insistence on freedom a personal blow to all of us.
I met him in Washington last year, before a dinner given by the National Academy of Sciences. When I identified myself as an anti-Communist columnist, he gazed half-lidded through thick glasses and replied kindly: ''There is no more important commentary than that about the relationship between the U.S. and the U.S.S.R.''
My notes on the back of the menu record his response when asked if American economic cooperation would aid the cause of freedom in the Soviet Union. ''Extend assistance to perestroika with open eyes,'' he advised. ''Ensure that your money does not disappear into the sand.''
He then gave a speech to the assembled scientists about the instability of the proton, calling into question, I think, the law of the conservation of particles.
He could see he lost more than a few of us on that, and apologized for his impromptu reach into the arcane: ''I am a poor popularizer and a poor orator. If I had written my speech, it would have been more logical and sequential. But perhaps it would have lost a sense of spontaneity and gratitude.''
He had the humility that rolls over arrogance and the gentle courage that ultimately throttles brutality. No wonder so many of his countrymen thought of him as saintly; he exhibited the infuriating self-confidence of a saint.
Few in the Soviet Union's era of glasnost dared to deliver his message about the accretion of authority in the name of ''democratization'': that democracy could never come from the supreme empowerment of one man.
Prime movers die but movements go on. Look at that picture of the Supreme Soviet in its moment of silence, the huge statue of Lenin looming over the memorial bouquet in Sakharov's empty chair.
Those are the symbols of the Soviet debate. The obscene statue will crumble; the cut flowers will bloom.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WRITERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); DEATHS (66%); 

PERSON: SAKHAROV, ANDREI D; SAFIRE, WILLIAM MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (92%); 



501 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1576 words

HEADLINE: A Legacy for Rutgers: Pride and Growth

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J., Dec. 12

 BODY:
For five years, Rutgers University has bustled with change as New Jersey has pumped millions of dollars into its state university in a carefully drawn plan to raise its image and the state's.
Construction is filling the woods and fields of once-peripheral campuses. A new thrust into high-technology research has begun with advanced work in fiber optics, ceramics and plant biology in research centers intended to benefit New Jersey's economy and environment. Admissions standards are up, the faculty is stronger, and Rutgers' national prestige is growing.
About the only big disappointment among top administrators is the football team's failure to do well with its strengthened big-college schedule and to earn a major bowl bid. 
 
Bloustein 'Left Footprints'
The architect of Rutgers' campaign to shed its second-class image was Dr. Edward J. Bloustein, who became president of the university in 1971 and guided it until his death on Dec. 9. And only last February did he achieve one dream, when Rutgers was invited to join the Association of American Universities, a group of 58 private and public universities that emphasizes high standards in doctoral studies and research.
Since Dr. Bloustein's death, his peers in higher education have praised his efforts to move Rutgers toward the upper echelons of the nation's public universities.
''Ed Bloustein was one of those rare educational leaders who left footprints,'' said Donna E. Shalala, chancellor of the University of Wisconsin. ''He moved Rutgers a giant step toward becoming a major public university in this country. He knocked heads. He pulled people along.
''It is not in the first rank,'' she said, ''but it's moving in that direction and becoming an increasingly important institution.''
Stanley O. Ikenberry, president of the University of Illinois, said, ''Rutgers has made more progress over the last 20 years than any other public institution I can think of.''
Though spending priorities and the new emphasis on research have troubled some professors and students, Rutgers officials say the direction set by Dr. Bloustein is firmly entrenched.
''Everybody is committed to this program,'' said Michael Bongiovanni, chairman of Rutgers' board of governors. ''It's hard for me to see how somebody's going to sidetrack it.''
Like Gov. Thomas H. Kean, Dr. Bloustein chafed at so-called ''Jersey jokes'' and at the state's - and the university's - weak self-image and sense of being overshadowed by New York City and Philadelphia, associates say.
''He hated the syndrome of being willing to settle for second best,'' said Donald B. Edwards, Rutgers' vice president for development and public affairs. ''He felt New Jersey and Rutgers were shortchanging themselves in terms of ambition.''
Change was considerable in the Bloustein years.
 
Growth Across the River
A $550 million building campaign, the biggest in the university's 223-year history, is concentrated heavily in the 1,700 acres of the once-isolated Busch and Kilmer campuses, the sites of Livingston College, the School of Business, and the College of Engineering.
Busy Route 18 and the Raritan River separate both campuses from the compact 64-acre downtown campus where Rutgers was founded in 1766 and administrative offices are now situated.
The expansion across the river has created an atmosphere of sprawl and forced many students to shuttle from dormitory to classroom by bus.
At the heart of the building boom are the new centers for advanced research.
One center is seeking new uses for ceramics - extremely hard, heat-resistant materials - in computers, auto engines and aerospace equipment. Rutgers officials say they believe a $10 billion worldwide market for advanced ceramics will exist by 2000.
 
Fiber Optics for Surgery
Another is exploring applications of fiber optics - the hair-thin glass strands that transmit light at great speed - to manufacturing and medicine, including their use to destroy cancers without surgery and burn plaque from clogged arteries.
A new center in agricultural molecular biology is working on the development of plant varieties less dependent on chemical fertilizers and pesticides. Others are seeking advances in plastics recycling, food technology, biotechnology and medicine, and are analyzing coastal overdevelopment and diseases of salt-water fish and shellfish.
Corporations help underwrite most centers. Their donations will allow them to set some research agendas and later apply the results to new products. Such marketplace research is increasingly common at major universities, education experts say.
 
Tougher Admissions Standards
Under toughened admissions standards, the average Scholastic Aptitude Test score of freshmen at Rutgers College, the university's oldest and most select school, is 1,169. On all campuses here and in Newark and Camden, the average now is 1,098, up 57 points since 1984.
In the same period, the average national S.A.T. score has increased 6 points, to 903 from 897, said Elizabeth Mitchell, director of admissions.
Despite the improved scores and the fact that 88 percent of undergraduates are state residents, Ms. Mitchell said the university remains disturbed by the continued migration of the state's best high school graduates to private colleges outside New Jersey.
''New Jersey has sent too many of its brightest kids out of state and too many have not come back to pursue careers,'' she said.
 
Luring the State's Brightest
To lure them to Rutgers, officials are considering extending annual $5,000 scholarships, now offered to high school valedictorians, to the second- and third-ranked students in graduating classes, she said.
The faculty is more prestigious, according to a 1988 re-accreditation report of the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools. Members in the National Academy of Sciences have increased from 3 to 12 in six years. And top-level public universities around the country say they are noticing Rutgers' recruitment raids.
In an otherwise favorable report, the Middle States group criticized a shortage of dormitories and the smallness of student centers. Officials say a new capital project will address those shortcomings of student life. In addition, a university-wide, $53 million library expansion is under way.
Both Dr. Bloustein and the Kean administration viewed the football team as a potential builder of image and pride for Rutgers and New Jersey. Six years ago, its training centers were upgraded with $3 million in state funds, and tougher teams like Tennessee, Florida, Alabama, Michigan State, Penn State and Syracuse were scheduled. The goals were national recognition and bowl invitations.
 
Football Success Eludes Rutgers
But neither materialized. The team's head coach, Dick Anderson, who compiled a record of 27 wins, 34 losses and 4 ties since 1984, was dismissed a few days after Dr. Bloustein's death.
The school's improved image has also brought some disharmony.
A 66 percent tuition increase over five years has embittered many in the student body of 47,000. Fifty were arrested last spring during protests. Yet annual costs for tuition, room, board and other fees remain under $7,000 for New Jersey residents and under $10,000 for out-of-state students.
There is a sense among students that undergraduate education has been overlooked in the rush to expand high-technology research. Although the Middle States agency has high praise for undergraduate academics, Dr. Bloustein ordered a complete review of the program several months ago.
 
Students Unhappy With Priorities
The action did not seem to appease undergraduates.
''I still don't see that as the number-one priority,'' said Susan Kohn, a senior majoring in economics and French, who represents students on the board of governors. ''I think the number-one priority is to make Rutgers a nationally recognized research university.''
Some faculty grumble about overconcentration on research and sciences at the expense of the humanities and social sciences. Some found Dr. Bloustein strong-willed and forceful in pursuing his ambition, and egos were bruised.
''Had he been able to incorporate opponents into his plans, we would have had a more unified faculty,'' said Dr. Joseph G. Rosenstein, a faculty representative on the board.
Rutgers' turnaround in image and reputation has hinged on two developments this decade, administrators say. In 1980, Dr. Bloustein changed Rutgers from a splintered institution to a cohesive one by merging - despite howls of protest - the separate and overlapping faculties and academic departments of Rutgers' five undergraduate colleges. And, over the last five years, money has poured in, including about $150 million from state bond issues in 1984 and 1988; $45.6 million in Federal grants (a 100 percent increase in 5 years), and about $45 million in grants from foundations and corporations.
Annual operating revenues from the state have increased nearly 83 percent, from about $150 million to $274 million, since 1984. And a separate fund-raising campaign that opened in 1986 with a goal of $75 million has now reached $142 million, with half of it coming from major corporations.
T. Edward Hollander, New Jersey's Chancellor of Higher Education, views the largesse as acknowledgement of Rutgers' improving reputation.
''If Rutgers tried to raise $10 or $15 million 15 years ago, it would have been lucky,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Map of New Jersey showing location of Rutgers University (NYT) (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (54%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: FIBER OPTICS; CERAMICS AND POTTERY; RESEARCH; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ENVIRONMENT; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); ADMISSIONS STANDARDS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (93%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BOTANY (71%); 

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT



502 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: As a Hospital Grows, Debts Threaten It

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

 BODY:
Even as it nears completion of a $500 million rebuilding project that will make it one of the country's largest and best-equipped health-care institutions, the Presbyterian Hospital finds itself in a financial crisis that threatens its survival as a teaching center.
The 120-year-old hospital, part of the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, is the sole health-care provider for a large and increasingly poor swath of Upper Manhattan. Because many of its patients are low-income residents or recent immigrants, many of whom do not have medical insurance, officials say, the hospital's resources have been badly sapped.
While hospitals throughout the city say insufficient state reimbursements for indigent care are leaving them underfinanced, Presbyterian, at 168th Street and Broadway, is by all accounts the hardest hit of New York's teaching hospitals.
Losing large amounts of money on its more than 500,000 clinic and emergency room visits each year and facing daunting financing costs and overruns from its building project, the hospital where oxygen tents were invented and cardiac catheterizaton was pioneered must now struggle to maintain operations from month to month. 
 
'Now the Endowment Is Gone'
''We are losing $50 million a year,'' said Seymour Milstein, the hospital's chairman, who estimated that in the last decade, the hospital has ''dissipated'' more than $250 million of its endowment of about $300 million, mostly to meet operating costs. Public health experts say no other large teaching hospital in the country has spent so much endowment money to meet operating costs.
''As long as they had the endowment, they were saying we will continue to eat it,'' Mr. Milstein, who became chairman last July, said, referring to the hospital's losses. ''Now the endowment is gone.''
The demise of Presbyterian's endowment coincides with the hospital's ambitious building plan.
Last month, at a ceremony for more than 100 members of the health-care community, Presbyterian opened a new 745-bed hospital named for Mr. Milstein's family, which donated $25 million toward its construction.
The sandy-hued 10-story structure, with up-to-the-minute medical and computer technology, comfortably appointed rooms and sweeping views of the Hudson River, is the keystone of Presbyterian's rebuilding program. It represents both the hospital's hopes for the future and - because of its high cost - its tremendous new financial burden.
Eighteen months ago Presbyterian also opened the Allen Pavillion on 220th Street, at the northern tip of Manhattan. The pavillion, a 300-bed community hospital, which had difficulty recruiting nurses and other staff, is close to fully operational.
''If you had to pick the worst time in New York City to open a new hospital, that was it,'' said Kevin W. Dahill, the vice president in charge of the Allen Pavillion. He was referring to several months of $1 million losses, largely because of a lack of staff, after the building opened in July 1988.
Presbyterian, like New York's other teaching hospitals, began its rebuilding project in an effort to keep pace with modernizations at rival academic medical centers in cities like Boston and San Francisco, and at younger institutions in places like Alabama and North Carolina.
 
Not a Good Place to Be In
To cover cost overruns estimated at $94 million, Presbyterian recently applied for state authorization for mortgage increases that will for 20 years add about $4 million in annual financing costs to the hospital.
''That is not a comfortable place for the institution to be in,'' Robert D. Gumbs, director of the New York City Health Systems Agency, a public planning group, said of the hospital's finances. ''They have a short-term crisis, and when they are through with that, they will have long-term difficulties.''
Discussions of Presbyterian's troubles invariably produce muted recrimination among hospital, industry and state health officials.
The state, which controls many of the factors that determine hospital income, has raised questions about the hospital's management.
 
'Losses Just Started Ballooning'
''Presbyterian had been accepting bottom line losses of $8 million to $10 million for years to meet its community responsibilities,'' said Dr. David Axelrod, the state health commissioner. ''Then the losses just started ballooning.''
Asked how the losses had spun out of control, Dr. Axelrod, who praised present leadership at the hospital, said in the past, ''somebody wasn't watching the store during construction'' of the new hospital.
Presbyterian officials blame much of the cost overruns on a building moratorium issued by Gov. Hugh L. Carey in the early 1980's. They say the moratorium significantly delayed rebuilding plans, adding greatly to costs.
Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, dismissed the question of hospital management, too. He said Presbyterian is investing in ''outpatient care as much as anyone in the country,'' and is losing money because of the rate at which Medicaid reimbursements are made. Medicaid payment rates for outpatient clinic visits in New York have been frozen since 1981.
 
'For the Poor of New York'
At Presbyterian, officials suggest that by aggressively following the state's call for more primary care to low-income communities, the hospital became overexposed to a money-losing activity.
Since its creation, Presbyterian's credo has read, ''For the poor of New York without regard to race, creed or color.''
Dr. Thomas Q. Morris, the hospital's president, said Presbyterian had upheld and would continue to uphold that spirit, but he acknowledged that a solution had to be found to the hospital's financial problems.
''Our clinic losses in 1981 were between $1 million and $2 million,'' he said. ''Now they are in the range of $30 million. That is intolerable. #35 Percent Without Insurance ''We have served an increasingly large Medicaid population,'' Dr. Morris said, explaining one dimension of the hospital's financial problems. ''From 10 percent of our inpatients 10 years ago the number has gone up to 30 percent now. On the outpatient side, as many as 35 percent of our patients don't even have insurance.''
By comparison, about 47 percent of the inpatients at the city's public hospitals receive Medicaid. At the city's four other academic medical centers, an average of about 17.5 percent of the patients receive Medicaid, according to state and city data. No similar data were available on payments to hospitals for outpatient care.
At one of Presbyterian's outpatient clinics, a large pediatric office, more than 30 mothers with children competed for space in a modest waiting room last week.
''This is nothing,'' said Joan Maloney, a nursing care clinician, who explained the crowd was smaller than usual because of a predicted snowstorm. ''Usually we are backed up into the hall.''
 
Large Volume and Large Losses
''Most of these patients cannot afford our care,'' said Dr. Matilde Irigoyen, director of the clinic, adding that 70 percent of the parents were Mediciad recipients. ''For the people who live in this area we have to use a sliding payment scale.''
So far this year, Presbyterian officials say, the hospital has received more than 500,000 outpatient and emergency room visits. Alluding to one of the city's largest public hospitals, Mr. Milstein said, ''We take care of more people - by 50 percent - than even Bellevue does.''
Because of its extraordinary volume and the losses it suffers, especially on its outpatient care, hospital and public health officials say Presbyterian has recently considered drastic relief measures.
One plan abandoned recently would have had the hospital request designation by the state as a ''financially distressed'' institution, a measure that would have made it eligible for special financing.
 
A Potential Embarrassment
''In my opinion that would have meant the death of Presbyterian as an academic medical center,'' said one official, who asked not to be identified. Explaining why the plan was rejected, he said, ''If you were a world-class scientist or physician would you come to work at a distressed hospital?''
Dr. Gerald E. Thomson, executive vice president for professional affairs at Presbyterian, said the hospital was now contemplating a major reorganization in which specialty clinics would be de-emphasized, while basic primary care would be expanded.
Hospital officials hope that this idea can be sold to the state, which has sought to increase primary care, in exchange for significantly increased reimbursement for clinic care.
Public health officials and experts say that new relief measures are likely, because failure by Presbyterian, one of the country's best known hospitals - and with 6,000 employees, one of the city largest employers - would be an unacceptable embarrassment for leaders in both Albany and New York City.
''The academic medical center community nationally is watching us,'' said Dr. Thomson. ''They see us as a financially troubled center trying to do the right thing in a struggling community, not being reimbursed adequately.
''We have a responsibility for producing the best care for our community, one of the most medically needy in New York, and for training some of the world's leading teachers, researchers and physicians. The question is whether the public will provide the resources to keep doing all of this.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of mothers and children waiting in line for treatment at a pediatric unit in Manhattan (NYT/Neal Boenzi) (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINANCES; HOSPITALS HOSPITALS (92%); HEALTH CARE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); INSURANCE (55%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (51%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W



503 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: Huge Japanese Realty Deals Breeding Jokes and Anger

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
Richard Colby was upset. There he was, standing on the studio-audience line for the ''Donahue'' show at 30 Rockefeller Center, saying he did not like it one bit that a Japanese corporation was now the building's majority owner.
''Certain things are sacred,'' said Mr. Colby, a Long Island Rail Road engineer. ''Radio City, the tree. What are they going to do, have a bonsai now that it's 51 percent Japanese?''
Outside, a woman has been selling T-shirts that say, ''Welcome to Wokafellar Center.'' 
Upstairs, where NBC has its New York studios, the comedy shows have been making joke after joke in the weeks since the Japanese-owned Mitsubishi Estate Company agreed to pay $846 million for a controlling interest in the Rockefeller Group, which owns Rockefeller Center.
One night soon after the deal was made public, the longtime NBC announcer Bill Wendell began, ''From New York, a subsidiary of Mitsubishi, it's 'Late Night With David Letterman.' '' Later, three Japanese men with briefcases were shown handing Mr. Wendell fistfuls of cash in return for buildings on the New York skyline behind Mr. Letterman's desk. And last Wednesday, Mr. Letterman showed off a paperweight replica of Macy's. ''A New York City landmark,'' he said, ''the perfect gift for any Japanese child.''
 
Big Bucks for Visible Chunks
Of late, Japanese investors have been paying big bucks for sizable, visible chunks of the American landscape, from Hollywood to Wall Street. Weeks after the Rockefeller Center deal was announced and Sony said it was paying $3.4 billion for Columbia Pictures, the inhabitants of that landscape are still anxious and, to some extent, angry. And the gloom-and-doom predictions and the nasty humor about the Japanese continue.
There are people who do not pretend to understand the intricacies of high finance that went into the Rockefeller Center deal - people who under ordinary circumstances have a hard time balancing their checkbooks. But now they are asking each other whether the Japanese buying spree is a sign of confidence in the American economy or a sign of its demise.
On another level, some people are expressing their concerns about Japanese investors and investments in ways that others find distasteful. Norman Siegel, the executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, said verbal assaults against Japanese-Americans had surged since the Rockefeller Center deal.
'It's a xenophobic, knee-jerk response that some people still think they're fighting World War II,'' he said. ''Character assassination and jokes, though First Amendment-protected, are un-American. They violate the principles of diversity and pluralism that America is supposed to be all about and New York, especially. We too were immigrants once, and some of our parents and grandparents had it heaped upon them unfairly, and we shouldn't be doing it now.''
Some say that with all the changes in Eastern Europe, Communist-bashing has lost its sting and the Japanese suddenly are easy targets of humor or, worse, hate. That has made the last few weeks a difficult time for Japanese who work in the United States, even though less than a fifth of the first-class commercial office space in Manhattan is foreign-owned. The Japanese rank well behind the Canadians in their holdings and have only recently surged past the British and the Dutch.
''The judgment of the American people about Japanese buying American real estate is a cause for concern,'' said Akiko Iimura, the editor in chief of OCS News, a newspaper published for Japanese in this country. ''They feel they are very good to Americans. However, they see a lot of anti-Japanese feelings.''
 
A Harder Edge
Similarly, Americans who work for Japanese companies say that when the conversation turns to where they work, it suddenly takes on a harder edge.
''The first thing people say is you're a traitor,'' said one woman who works for a Japanese-owned trading company in Manhattan. ''I turn around and explain that the Japanese don't own as much as you think they do. The problem is the Japanese have a much higher profile in the U.S. right now.''
Perhaps nowhere in New York is that higher profile a source of more anxiety than in Rockefeller Center, where, even weeks after the deal with Mitsubishi was announced, people criticize the Japanese in ways that they do not criticize British or Canadian investors.
''You want to know the truth -they're getting back at us for the atomic bomb,'' said Charlie Cacioppo of Franklin Square, L.I., who had come to Rockefeller Center to see the Christmas tree. ''What we did to their cities, now they are trying to do to us by taking over our city. It's time to play hardball. We worked hard for this, and now they're taking it away. Soon everyone will be working for them.''
Mr. Cacioppo already does. He said he is a salesman for a Nissan dealer in Queens.
''It's terrible,'' declared another visitor to Rockefeller Center, Madeline Aquila of Dix Hills, L.I., who said she had been having nightmares about a television program that enumerated all that the Japanese have bought up. ''America should wake up. Nobody can step on you unless you let them.''
 
A 'Monolithic View'
Gerald Curtis, the director of the East Asian Institute at Columbia University, said the way American look at Japanese purchasers and their purchases reflects a ''monolithic view that is not real.''
''When it comes to the British or the Canadians,'' he said, ''we think of individuals: Murdoch or Goldsmith. We don't think, 'The British or coming' or 'The Canadians are coming.' But for a lot of reasons that have do with a lack of American knowledge about Japan and the Japanese, we talk in terms of Japan Inc.''
That view, Mr. Curtis said, is much like the view Europeans had of Americans in the 1950's.
''There was a lot of intense European concern about the dominance of American money,'' he said. ''Now there's American concern about the power of Japanese money. Well, in retrospect American investments in Europe helped revitalize the European economy, and Japanese investments in this country are going to help revitalize the American economy.''
Some, like Mr. Siegel of the civil liberties union, maintain that anti-Japanese sentiment is rising at a time when ''few politicians are willing to speak out on this issue because they're playing to a large audience that's engaged in this activity.''
''If there's this growing climate of Japan-bashing and they don't have that many Japanese in their districts,'' he said, ''why stand up for an unpopular group?''
 
'Relying on Stereotypes'
Scott E. Pardee, co-chairman of Yamaichi International (America) Inc., the New York subsidiary of a Japanese investment house, said he was troubled that people ''are relying on stereotypes based on some image they have in their minds that doesn't relate directly to the people I'm working with or the people I know.''
''The problem with it is the numbers are big and they've happened very quickly,'' Mr. Pardee said.
But, as Mr. Pardee and others point out, the numbers are not as big as most of those who criticize the Japanese seem to think. Before the Rockefeller Center deal, which added 15 million square feet to Japanese holdings, the Japanese owned or controlled 14.3 million square feet in Manhattan.
''It's getting more negative attention than it deserves,'' Mr. Curtis of the East Asian Institute said. ''The Japanese may buy a big building or part of Rockefeller Center, but they can't bring it back to Tokyo. It's still there - it means that Japanese money is in the U.S. economy. It's one way to recycle Japanese surpluses.''

GRAPHIC: Photos of Madeline Aquila, Dix Hills, L.I.; Charlie Cacioppo, Franklin Square, L.I. (NYT/Bill Swersey) (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8802 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (91%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (91%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (91%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (91%); SIC6514 OPERATORS OF DWELLINGS OTHER THAN APARTMENT BUILDINGS (91%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (91%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (91%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (91%); SIC1531 OPERATIVE BUILDERS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MITSUBISHI ESTATE CO LTD (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; NEW YORK CITY; ROCKEFELLER CENTER (NYC)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US; REAL ESTATE REAL ESTATE (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (74%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (74%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); ASIAN AMERICANS (72%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: BARRON, JAMES DAVID LETTERMAN (78%); 



504 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: A Neighborhood Battle: Apartments or a Park?

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

 BODY:
At first glance, the parcel of city-owned land running west from the corner of Ninth Street and Avenue C hardly seems worth the fuss. It holds a few battered pieces of playground equipment, three willow trees, four American lindens, a makeshift amphitheater built of railroad ties, a vegetable garden, a pigeon coop and four scrawny chickens.
But for more than two years now it has been fought over by those who want the site for a 79-unit apartment building for the elderly and those who want to keep it as a park.
The tussle over the land has heightened racial, ethnic and class mistrust on the Lower East Side, a neighborhood where Hispanic residents, blacks, aging hippies, artists, squatters, street people, anarchists and young professionals maintain an uneasy coexistence. 
''It's a very eclectic group around here, and it's hard to get a consensus on almost anything,'' said the Rev. Robert Wollenburg, pastor of the Trinity Lower East Side Lutheran Parish, which runs a shelter and a soup kitchen in the neighborhood.
The housing project, which is to be known as Casa Victoria and built with a $7 million loan from the Department of Housing and Urban Development, has come under more scrutiny since October, when a H.U.D. regional economist said he had been pressured to approve it, against his better judgment, by administrators who were associates of Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato.
Those trying to block Casa Victoria's construction are mainly young whites, including artists and musicians, who moved into the neighborhood during the last two decades. They insist that they favor inexpensive housing for the elderly but feel there are better sites.
 
'It's Quite Hypocritical'
''Until there are no more abandoned buildings and vacant lots, the city shouldn't come along and destroy parks and gardens,'' said Don Yorty, a poet who has lived on Ninth Street for 10 years.
The project's developer and many of its biggest boosters are members of the neighborhood's old-guard Hispanic political establishment who view opponents as outsiders or politically naive idealists who do not understand the neighborhood's real needs.
''I think it's quite hypocritical,'' said Antonio Pagan, executive director of the Lower East Side Coalition for Housing Development Inc., a nonprofit corporation that is the project's developer. ''Instead of targeting the powers that are gentrifying our neighborhood, they choose to attack a small, community-based agency that has been providing low-cost housing for years. There's something weird about that.''
Both the local community board and the Board of Estimate have approved the project.
Opponents of the development have brought several lawsuits, the latest seeking to halt the project until charges of undue influence by Senator D'Amato can be fully explored.
In October, David Burns, H.U.D.'s regional economist, said he had been pressured by two of the agency's former regional administrators who were close associates of Mr. D'Amato to approve Casa Victoria. Mr. Burns said he wanted to reject the Lower East Side Coalition's application for H.U.D. funds because there was already too heavy a concentration of publicly assisted housing in the neighborhood. No evidence has been revealed suggesting wrongdoing by officials of the coalition.
Mr. D'Amato, a New York Republican, and the former regional administrators have denied any impropriety.
In the mid-70's the city leased the land to Charas, a local Hispanic cultural organization that said it wanted to build a park with a playground and a site for concerts, art shows and theater. Chino Garcia, the group's secretary director, said Charas cleared the vacant lots of rubbish, planted trees and built a type of geodesic dome. Charas called its creation La Plaza Cultural, a name many of those opposed to developing the site still use.
Residents say Charas lost interest in the park and began to neglect it. By 1986, papers filed in a lawsuit brought by opponents of Casa Victoria described the site as ''nothing but an abandoned, rubble-strewn, litter-filled lot used only by drug addicts and derelicts.''
The situation worsened, all sides in the dispute agreed, after an itinerant musician opened an outdoor soup kitchen for homeless people encamped in nearby Tompkins Square Park. By all accounts, the soup kitchen degenerated into an open-air drug bazaar.
''This was the biggest drug den we ever had down here,'' said Mr. Pagan.
Opponents of the housing development say they now realize it was a mistake for them to let the soup kitchen open. But they insist it was they who closed it down and cleaned up the site. The park is now virtually empty of drug dealers during the day.
''It used to be a terrible place,'' said Bernard Leroy, the owner of Bernard's, a nearby restaurant. ''But it hasn't been that way for six or seven months because the community has really been on their backs.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: CASA (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; LOWER EAST SIDE (NYC)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); PUBLIC PROPERTY; AGED PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); AGING (75%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (75%); PUBLIC HOUSING (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); CITIES (73%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (72%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (72%); RELIGION (72%); APPROVALS (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); LITIGATION (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A ALFONSE M D'AMATO (54%); 



505 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Third World Borrowing Still Growing

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 17

 BODY:
The total debt of third world countries is still rising, and an increasing number of countries are accumulating arrears, the World Bank said today.
The increase came despite American initiatives intended to reduce outstanding loans that began this year.
The World Bank, a lending institution with 152 member nations, also found encouraging developments, particularly in the experience of Mexico, an early beneficiary of the new strategy. Mexico has seen cuts in interest rates, a return of flight capital and a revival of domestic investment. 
Under a plan formulated in March by Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, in which both the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund advance money for debt relief to countries willing to accept strict economic discipline, ''a good start has been made,'' the bank said in a review of the debt situation.
The assessment appeared in the publication ''World Debt Tables 1989-90,'' which projects total developing country debt at year-end at $1.165 trillion, $9 billion above the 1988 level, but $11 billion below the level at the end of 1987.
The share of developing country debt held by the World Bank, the I.M.F. and other so-called official creditors owned by governments has also continued to rise, providing further evidence of the lack of enthusiasm of many commercial banks for third world lending.
By the end of 1989 official creditors are expected to account for 48 percent of the total. In 1982, when the debt crisis began, their share was 38 percent.
Of the projected $26 billion that is going to developing countries in 1989, nearly 90 percent will be from official lenders.
The bank reported a 25 percent increase in total outstanding arrears, from $41 billion at the end of 1987 to $52 billion at the end of 1988. It made no projection for the end of 1989, but many analysts think arrears continued to rise, both to commercial banks and to the official lenders.
 
'Value Impaired'
In June, the buildup in arrears of Argentina led Washington regulators to instruct American banks to classify Argentine loans as ''value impaired,'' forcing banks to establish reserve accounts and subtract the new reserves from earnings.
Most interest payments to commercial banks by Argentina have been interrupted since April 1987.
The bank said the rising arrears reflect ''the impasse between creditors and debtors.''
The growth of official debt combined with the higher arrears could cause some problems for the Bush Administration next year when it seeks approval in Congress for increases in capital for both the I.M.F. and the World Bank's International Development Association.
The United States is prepared to back a 35 percent increase in the I.M.F.'s $120 billion pool of resources. Most other leading industrial nations want more, and a compromise is expected early next year.
 
Loans to the Poorest
Negotiations have just concluded between the United States and other donor nations to provide new funds for the International Development Association, which makes 35- and 40-year loans at no interest to more than 50 of the poorest countries.
Thirty-two donor countries agreed to contribute $15 billion over a three-year period to the association. The Bush Administration would ante up $3 billion.
There will be opposition in Congress, which has little enthusiasm for foreign economic assistance. In addition, some lawmakers feel that giving additional resources to the I.M.F. is the equivalent of transferring the burden of bad debts of developing countries from private banks to American taxpayers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ARGENTINA (92%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (52%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD)

SUBJECT: CREDIT; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); PUBLIC DEBT (92%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); 



506 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1595 words

HEADLINE: Eastern Europe's Lures and Hurdles

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
American businesses are rushing to Eastern Europe with visions of tapping new markets for consumers and developing low-cost manufacturing bases, but experts on the region warn that formidable obstacles remain.
Among them are underdeveloped communications and transportation networks, people unfamiliar with Western ways of doing business and currencies that largely have no value outside their countries' borders.
For these and other reasons, it may be many years, if ever, before many of the new American ventures return profits to their parent companies, analysts and executives with experience in the region say.
Still, in recent weeks there has been a flurry of announcements of new undertakings in the East bloc, spurred by the rapid changes in governments and movement toward freer economies.
Reflecting one of the most promising early opportunities, American telecommunications companies have made deals to lay fiber-optic lines across the Soviet Union, establish cellular telephone service in Budapest and take cable television to Poland. 
On the financial front, Chubb & Son Inc., the insurance company, announced that it had formed a joint venture in the Soviet Union to offer property and casualty insurance to Western companies setting up businesses there.
And in an attempt to bring Western service standards to the Eastern bloc, the Marriott Corporation has opened a hotel in Warsaw.
In the last year alone, the number of American joint ventures in Hungary has doubled to 70, said William Winter, a specialist on Eastern Europe at the Commerce Department. That is not surprising, given that Hungary began to open up to foreign businesses several years ago. In Poland, where the basic law governing business was liberalized late last year, the number of joint ventures involving American companies has jumped from 4 to about 40 this year, Mr. Winter said.
Czechoslovakia and East Germany are just beginning the process of political change that precedes economic restructuring, but economists regard them as better long-range prospects for economic development because of their strong industrial bases.
Even the Soviet Union, long the most bureaucratic and inflexible of East bloc nations, now has close to 100 joint ventures with American companies, a number that increases almost daily. American business executives say the Soviet Union's potential for Western ventures is much larger, but remains hobbled by its central planning system.
''There were just a few United States-Soviet joint ventures when we began negotiations nearly a year ago,'' said Henry G. Parker 3d, a senior vice president of Chubb. ''Now there are almost 100.'' He said the company's subsidiaries in Italy and Germany were even more interested than its domestic units in seeking Eastern business agreements since companies in those countries have been more aggressive in establishing Soviet operations than American-based firms.
 
U.S. Companies Are Behind
United States companies, in general, have lagged behind those based in Europe in developing business ventures in the East bloc. In Poland, for instance, West German companies have formed more than 400 joint ventures, or 10 times as many as American companies, the Commerce Department said.
But some American companies stand out in their quickness to set up business. United Parcel Service has started delivering packages in Moscow, Budapest, East Berlin, Warsaw and Cracow. So eager was the company to begin operations that it is demanding payment in hard currencies, which could severely limit the amount of East-to-West business it develops.
Earlier this year, the General Electric Company agreed to acquire control of a Hungarian light bulb manufacturer for $150 million, and the General Motors Corporation has acknowledged that it is seeking to increase the number of automotive components it buys in that country so it can increase car imports.
 
'Enormous Pent-Up Demand'
''There is an enormous pent-up demand for products from the West in Eastern Europe,'' said Michael A. Petrilli, director of international development for the Monsanto Company, which is based in St. Louis. ''You do not have to convince them.''
Ralph Land, who manages Eastern European activities for the Xerox Corporation's British subsidiary, Rank-Xerox, said: ''The recent trend toward market economies is inexorable. The need to update their economies and fill store shelves with goods is so enormous that there are many opportunities to do business.''
Certainly Eastern Europe represents a vast, untapped market for Western companies. The population of Hungary, Poland, East Germany and Czechoslovakia exceeds 80 million, or as much as France, the Netherlands and Belgium combined. Adding the Soviet Union's 285 million produces a market of 365 million, which is larger than the European Community's 325 million, although not nearly as well off.
As the elaborate planning and regulatory structures are abolished in each country, doing business in Eastern Europe will come to resemble operations in other developing countries, experts say. ''In two or three years it will be that way in Poland, with Czechoslovakia and East Germany not far behind,'' said David M. Kemme, an economist at the Institute for East-West Security Studies in New York. ''In Hungary, the future is here. Companies are allowed to set up shop without hardly any restrictions.''
Increasing economic activity with an emphasis on private initiative will mean more consumer spending power, business executives say. ''Economic growth is going to make life better for us,'' said Christoph W. Admaski, vice president for world trade for Pepsico Inc., which has had operations in the Soviet Union since 1974.
But Western analysts and executives caution that Eastern Europe is not a place to make a quick buck. Virtually everyone involved in trade with East Bloc countries say the biggest single problem is finding a way to get paid in a spendable currency.
 
'Need to Build a Structure'
''We need to build a satisfactory structure that addresses convertability,'' said Ed Mattix, a spokesman for U S West, which announced plans last week to put fiber-optic cable across the Soviet Union. ''We strongly feel that it can be handled, but we'll have a group working on it for the next few months.''
To bring profits home, Western companies have had to persuade governments to dip into scarce reserves of hard currency. Another way has been to produce goods that can be sold in the West or finding something in the local economy that can be exported to pay for imports, a process known as countertrade.
For example, the foreign exchange that has paid for the import of concentrated Pepsi-Cola syrup to the Soviet Union since the mid-1970's has been provided by sale of Stolichnaya vodka. More recently, Pepsico helped buy bottling equipment for its Soviet operations by selling two oil tankers made there to Western companies.
 
Wider Opportunities
The decentralization of Eastern economies is making these countertrade operations more difficult to set up, participants say. But it is also providing wider opportunities.
Another obstacle is the accounting systems that are geared almost solely to recording production with little regard for financial performance. East bloc enterprises usually have ''very good books and records on production, but the last thing they are designed to do is reveal how much profit a company is making,'' said Philip Wright, a partner in the London office of Price Waterhouse, the accounting firm.
Bankers in particular seem wary of the rush eastward, possibly because some of them made loans in Poland in the 1970's that have not been repaid. Citibank, which has a local currency bank in Hungary, said no other offices are planned.
Kari Seppala, a New York-based vice president of the Kansallis Banking Group of Finland, said bankers in general are uncertain how the political changes in Eastern Europe will work out. ''There is so much happening in the Soviet Union and the East bloc that no one knows what is going on, and not even Mr. Gorbachev knows what course events will take,'' Mr. Seppala said. Still, Kansallis, four Western European and three Soviet banks have formed the International Moscow Bank, to assist Western companies in the Soviet Union.
In addition to political and economic uncertainty, communications and transportation networks in the Eastern countries are rudimentary, making it hard to conduct business. In places like East Germany and Czechoslovakia it is not always clear which officials actually have the authority to sign agreements.
''We are seeing a lot of things signed, but not much actual business being done,'' said W. Douglass Lee, the head of Intertech Resources Ltd., a London-based trading company.
''Everyone wants to get on the bandwagon, to get there first,'' he added. ''But you cannot go to Eastern Europe for two days, sign a deal and open up a business in a month. You need to be involved in discussions now for a project that might come to fruition in two years.''
With both Hungary and Poland heavily in debt to the West, economic leaders there are more eager to build export industries than simply be buyers of Western products. That too presents opportunities for doing business, executives say.
''If, as Western companies, we can do things like bring the quality of East bloc products up to Western standards, that puts us in a favored position to sell,'' said Mr. Petrilli of Monsanto. ''We have to find ways that make it possible for them to buy.''

GRAPHIC: A United Parcel Service truck making its rounds near the Brandenburg Gate in East Berlin. The company has begun delivering packages in Moscow, Budapest, East Berlin, Warsaw and Cracow. (Zenit/Paul Langrock for NYT) (p. D1); table of joint ventures in Eastern Bloc nations (Source: Bloc magazine) (p. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (82%); HST (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (82%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (82%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (96%); POLAND (94%); HUNGARY (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

CITY: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (92%); WARSAW, POLAND (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (82%); CHUBB & SON INC (69%); HOST HOTELS & RESORTS INC (68%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; EUROPE, EAST

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); JOINT VENTURES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); FIBER OPTICS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (68%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN



507 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Business Digest

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

 BODY:

 
The Economy
Banks are becoming increasingly active in selling senior debt used to finance leveraged buyouts. The effort is the latest by participants in the leveraged buyout boom to try to forestall or avoid more serious problems. Thus far, the number of bank loans sold either publicly or through private placements is but a trickle. But participants said more deals are likely. Credit Markets. [Page D1.] 
Sales of costume jewelry have risen strongly. What some retail executives call ''anchorwoman influence'' is said to have bolstered the increase. [D1.]
 
The Media Business
People-watching is the newest big trend in consumer research, marketing experts say. A rather daring technique only five years ago, the hiring of cultural anthropologists to observe and often videotape consumers in stores, shopping malls and even their own homes has become a standard practice for most large corporations and some of the nation's leading advertising agencies. [A1.]
New York State's main newspaper publishers have pledged to raise their use of recycled paper to 40 percent by 2000. [B6.]
Veco International says its purchase of The Anchorage Times insures that pro-oil, pro-development sentiment in Alaska will be heard. Seldom in recent memory has a new owner had an inherent credibility problem as daunting as that. [D10.]
Changes in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union are affecting U.S. publishers. Manuscripts and books in galleys are rapidly being rewritten, publishing schedules are being revised almost daily, and competition for Soviet and East bloc works has intensified. [D10.]
Chiat/Day/Mojo has named a North American chairman and chief executive. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D11.]
 
International
American businesses face tough hurdles in Eastern Europe. Among the obstacles are underdeveloped communications and transportation networks, people unfamiliar with Western ways of doing business and currencies that largely have no value outside their countries' borders. [D1.]
The total debt of developing countries is still on the rise, and an increasing number of countries are accumulating arrears, the World Bank said. It found encouraging developments, however, particularly in the experience of Mexico. [D1.]
Fears are rising for the future of Eurotunnel, the tunnel being built under the English Channel. With the project at least 43.7 percent over budget, London is full of gloom-and-doom rumors. [D12.]
The leaders of Mexico's private sector are seriously divided over the extent to which they should support and cooperate with the Government's reforms of the Mexican economy. [D12.]
 
Companies
Amgen could be devastated by last week's decision on erythropoietin, which is used to combat anemia, some lawyers who specialize in biotechnology say. Amgen was held to a draw in its court battle with Genetics Institute. [D1.]
American Airlines and United Airlines did not monopolize the computerized airline reservations industry through their control of the two largest computer systems that travel agents use to book plane tickets, a Federal jury ruled Friday. [D1.]
 
Today's Columns
The high cost of capital is the newest explanation for why the U.S. is in decline as a manufacturing center while Japan and West Germany flourish. Louis Uchitelle: Business Scene. [D2.]
A huge battle between Chevron and Pennzoil seems unlikely. Analysts expect instead a distant, uneasy standoff lasting months, if not years. Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMGN (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (51%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (69%); ENGLAND (69%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHIAT/DAY/MOJO INC ADVERTISING (66%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%); AMGEN INC (51%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AIRLINES (86%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (75%); TRENDS (75%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (74%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (67%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (64%); TRAVEL AGENTS (60%); ANEMIA (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (60%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (60%); 



508 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: Sales of Costume Jewelry Sparkle

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
You could pin it on Deborah Norville and Jane Pauley.
In one of the few bright spots in a dull Christmas selling season, sales of costume jewelry - inexpensive, fashionably designed earrings, necklaces, pins and bracelets that do not contain precious metals or stones -have been registering strong gains in recent weeks.
The May Department Stores Company, which owns more than 300 stores, including Lord & Taylor, Robinson's and Filene's, is reporting increases ''much better than planned,'' said Kenneth Kolker, chief executive of May's merchandising unit. ''We are very, very pleased.'' 
Claire's Stores Inc., a Miami-based national chain of 832 boutiques that specializes in costume jewelry, reports sales gains of more than 17 percent this season over last year's season. Crystal Brands Inc. and Victoria Creations Inc., the two largest United States makers of costume jewelry, say many department stores to which they sell are reporting increases of up to 20 percent over last season.
 
The 'Anchorwoman Influence'
Some retailers attribute the sales increases to an ''anchorwoman influence,'' stemming from television personalities like Ms. Pauley and Ms. Norville of NBC's early-morning ''Today'' show wearing elegant costume jewelry before a bathrobe-garbed and groggy nation. Other executives mention the designer Coco Chanel and the First Lady, Barbara Bush, both of whom favor classic, pearl-necklaced looks.
Costume jewelry sales have been rising steadily for a decade. The Commerce Department estimates that the combined sales of domestic and foreign makers of costume jewelry to United States stores this year will total more than $2 billion, up nearly 80 percent from sales in 1980. About $1.3 billion will come from United States manufacturers.
''When the price of gold and precious stones - like diamonds, emeralds and sapphires - shot up in the early 1980's, the design quality of costume jewelry increased and many department stores started stocking up on it,'' said John Harris, an economist with the Commerce Department.
Also, more women have been working outside the home, requiring a more formal appearance that might warrant jewelry. ''Career women buy more jewelry than housewives,'' Mr. Harris said. Manufacturers and retailers say costume jewelry has finally shed its image as a cheap substitute for silver and gold or as a dodge against thieves. Many women regard costume jewelry as desirable for its own sake and buy 15 or more pieces a year.
Because costume jewelry is relatively easy to make, with little marketing and scant brand loyalty, low-cost foreign competition accounts for much of the overall industry rise.
American company sales have increased 40 percent this decade, but the sales of overseas rivals in the United States market have nearly quadrupled. The American share of the wholesale market dropped to 65 percent this year, from 83 percent in 1980, with overseas producers, especially from Taiwan and Hong Kong, accounting for the rest. There are hundreds, perhaps thousands, of manufacturers in the industry.
The least expensive pieces of costume jewelry, like a $2 set of earrings, are made by foreign companies. Domestic makers account for most of the more expensive, more elaborate items sold in department stores. There, pieces can fetch as much as $500, although most sell for less than $30.
 
Handsome Profit Margins
Like cosmetics, costume jewelry items are impulse purchases that carry handsome profit margins of up to 20 percent, about twice the average margin for department store goods.
Costume jewelry is usually featured prominently on the high-traffic first floors of department stores, where about 33 percent of industry sales occur. Direct sales representatives, mainly from Avon Products Inc., account for 30 percent of sales, with specialty stores, discounters like the K Mart Corporation, and small shops accounting for the rest.
Costume jewelry ''has that irresistible combination of good growth and excellent profitability,'' said James A. Northrop, president and chief executive of the Crystal Brands Jewelry Group, which sells most of its products to department stores.
The company is part of Crystal Brands Inc., of Southport, Conn., a maker and marketer of apparel and accessories that had $889 million in revenue in 1988. It has the Monet, Trifari and Marvella brands of costume jewelry. With about $250 million in projected 1989 sales for those three lines, Crystal Brands is by far the largest company in the industry.
 
Little Brand Awareness
Monet, which had more than $110 million in 1988 sales and is the largest single brand, probably has the greatest consumer awareness in an industry where few consumers look for a brand. The brand's marketing is aimed specifically at working women, prime buyers of costume jewelry.
That most buyers are drawn to an individual piece, not its brand, is a source of frustration for industry executives. Without customer loyalty to brands, costume jewelry makers must prove themselves daily, piece by piece, in a struggle for consumer attention.
Monet, for example, has more than 6,500 products, and nearly 75 percent of those are changed every 12 months in an effort to keep up with changing tastes.
There is also pressure to maintain selling space. Most customers buy costume jewelry from carousels on top of a counter. But profitable cosmetics lines have proliferated, putting the squeeze on the counter space allocated to costume jewelry.
Costume jewelry also has fewer dramatic displays, no free gifts with purchases or fashion makeovers and other marketing gimmicks that cosmetics makers use to beef up sales.
 
Tricks of the Trade
Still, the industry has learned a few tricks. Take market segmentation, for example, the strategy of aiming at a particular group of buyers and trying to hit a home run in their direction.
Crystal Brands has aimed its Monet line at career women in their 30's with a family; Trifari is for younger customers, and Marvella, with its Victorian appeal, is for women who like romance novels.
Retailers do it, too. Claire's Stores, the Miami-based company that had $127.2 million in sales last year, has Claire's Boutiques for women aged 12 to 40 who like their jewelry ''cheap and cheerful.'' Its Dara Michelle is for the more restrained, ''fashion-conscious woman,'' and its Topkapi is for those whose tastes are in between.
Despite the strong recent sales, it is still relatively easy to make a mistake in costume jewelry. Inventory is key, since manufacturers must produce so many items to survive the competition.
Victoria Creations, a subsidiary of United Merchants and Manufacturers Inc. and the industry's second-largest manufacturer with six brands and about $76 million in sales, reported a $1.4 million operating loss for the year ended June 30.
Paul B. Markovits, who has been Victoria Creations' chairman for less than two months, said the company suffered from ''concept proliferation.'' It had more than 11,000 different products.
''When you have too much stuff,'' Mr. Markovits said, ''it's easy to lose focus. You have too many concepts and you wind up confusing customers.'' He plans to do a major pruning of concepts.

GRAPHIC: Chart of sales of costume jewelry (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3961 COSTUME JEWELRY & COSTUME NOVELTIES, EXCEPT PRECIOUS METAL (91%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); NAICS448150 CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (70%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (70%); SIC5632 WOMEN'S ACCESSORY & SPECIALTY STORES (70%); SIC2389 APPAREL & ACCESSORIES, NEC (70%); SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REUNITED HOLDINGS INC (91%); MACY'S INC (84%); CLAIRE'S STORES INC (70%); CRYSTAL BRANDS INC (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

SUBJECT: JEWELS AND JEWELRY; SALES; CHRISTMAS RETAILERS (91%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (90%); COSTUME JEWELRY MFG (90%); JEWELRY (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RETAIL SALES (78%); CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); FINE JEWELRY (78%); JEWELRY STORES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MARKET SHARE (77%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (76%); BRANDING (75%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BRAND EQUITY (68%); WOMEN WORKERS (65%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY MARGARET JANE 'JANE' PAULEY (74%); DEBORAH ANNE NORVILLE (74%); BARBARA BUSH (54%); 



509 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Business Scene;
Theory of Decline Fails to Hold Up

BYLINE: By Louis Uchitelle

 BODY:
EXPERTS try furiously to explain why the United States is in decline as a manufacturing center while Japan and West Germany flourish. The blame has fallen heavily on the work force (inadequately educated), consumers (wasteful spenders) and the Government (lacks a trade policy). Now a new explanation is becoming popular - the high cost of capital - and like the others, it provides some useful insights.
The argument is that raising money in the United States is too costly to justify huge investments in automated machinery, new factories and cutting-edge research. The forced outcome is that American companies go for projects that pay off in a few years - a tire factory, for example - and not those that require a decade to show a profit. Financing the development of a supersonic commercial aircraft is considered too costly, although producing one would be a feather in America's cap. 
That's the theory. Many executives, however, say it is an overstatement of what actually happens, among them Stephen R. Hardis, vice chairman of the Eaton Corporation, a machinery maker. He says returns from Eaton's investment are always high enough to cover capital costs.
Nevertheless, Mr. Hardis acknowledged that the high cost of capital was one reason that Eaton refrained from bidding in 1986 for the Robertshaw Controls Company, a maker of thermostats and other control devices, a field that interested Eaton. The Virginia-based company went instead to a British acquirer for $470 million.
Figuring the true cost of capital is complicated. Most capital is raised by borrowings - bond issues and bank loans - or by the sale of stock. The cost of borrowed money is, of course, the monthly interest payments, but the cost of selling stock or equity in a company is more than the quarterly dividend payments. Total profit must be high enough to persuade investors to buy and hold stock.
Borrowing money does not put American companies at a disadvantage. Although interest rates are higher in the United States than in West Germany and Japan, the differential almost disappears once allowance is made for inflation and tax breaks, according to a study by Robert N. McCauley and Steven A. Zimmer, of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Adjusted in this fashion, the average borrowing costs from 1983 through 1988 were 1.8 percent in the United States, 1.7 percent in Japan and zero in Germany, the two economists found.
But American companies have greater difficulty talking potential equity investors into paying a high price for stock in a company whose current earnings are low. To lure investors, American companies had to earn 10.8 cents each year for every dollar invested in stock in the 1983-1988 period, compared with 6.4 cents in West Germany and only 4.9 cents in Japan, the Fed study found. American companies have not yet sold a big percentage of their shares to foreigners - so the demands of American shareholders determine the cost of capital, even though many companies borrow abroad. The total capital costs, through stock sales and borrowing, averaged 6.4 cents annually for each dollar raised by an American company in the 1983-1988 period. The comparable figure for Japanese companies was 2.7 cents and for German companies 1.6 cents, the Fed economists said.
Their much-cited study helps to support several contentions. One is that Americans should save more, thus making more funds available for investment. Another is that the investment tax credit should be restored to lower investment costs. A third is that American companies are being forced to raise more capital through debt than new stock.
But like so many explanations of why the United States is not the manufacturing powerhouse it once was, the cost-of-capital argument falls short of being the final word. That is mainly because other factors besides the cost of capital determine competitiveness, among them labor costs and the dollar's steep devaluation since 1985. ''The devaluation alone has swamped any disadvantage in capital costs,'' said Alan Auerbach, a University of Pennsylvania economist.
Even without devaluation, Mr. Auerbach argues that the cost differential is illusory. Japanese investors, he says, pay a lot for stock in companies that merely appear to have low earnings. That is partly because balance sheets do not include earnings from subsidiaries, the requirement in America. And they do not include gains from rapidly rising real estate values.
Whatever the truth, Japanese capital costs are rising - partly because equity capital is perhaps costlier than the Japanese acknowledge, but also because Japanese companies have recently increased the equity portion of their capital. Eventually, the process might bring capital costs in Japan and the United States close to each other.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ETN (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS333996 FLUID POWER PUMP & MOTOR MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (83%); SIC3594 FLUID POWER PUMPS & MOTORS (83%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (67%); SIC3822 AUTOMATIC CONTROLS FOR REGULATING RESIDENTIAL & COMMERCIAL ENVIRONMENTS & APPLIANCES (67%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EATON CORP PLC (83%); ROBERTSHAW CONTROLS CO (67%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CAPITAL INVESTMENT MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); MOTOR VEHICLE POWER TRAIN MFG (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MFG (78%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); DIVIDENDS (74%); BOND ISSUES (73%); TIRE MFG (73%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (72%); BONDS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); THERMAL SENSORS (65%); INTEREST RATES (63%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS



510 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE BRIEFS

 BODY:

 
Debt
* Boise Cascade Corp., Boise, Idaho, has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a shelf offering of $400 million in debt securities.
* Chrysler Financial Corp. is offering $200 million in floating-rate notes, due in 1992, at a price of 100 to float at 50 basis points more than the London interbank offered rate, through Morgan Stanley & Co. The noncallable notes are payable quarterly and rated Baa-2 by Moody's Investors Service and BBB by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
* Prism Entertainment Corp., Los Angeles, has filed for up to $6 million in convertible senior subordinated debentures, due in 1999, through Offerman & Co. as sole underwriter.
 
Preferred Stock
* Forest Oil Corp., Denver, has filed for two million shares of convertible preferred stock.
 
Common Stock
* GIII Apparel Group Ltd. is offering two million common shares at $13 a share, through Oppenheimer & Co.
* Service Fracturing Co., Pampa, Tex., is offering 1.2 million common shares at $5.75 a share, through Lovett Underwood Neuhaus & Webb Inc.
 
Ratings
* New York Telephone's senior secured and senior unsecured debt ratings have been lowered to A, from AA, by S.&P., which reduced the parent Nynex Corp.'s commercial paper rating to A-1 from A-1+. The rating agency also lowered Nynex Credit Corp.'s senior unsecured debt to A, from AA, and commercial paper to A-1, from A-1+.
* Rochester Telephone Corp.'s senior secured debt rating has been reduced to AA from AAA by S.&P.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OMX (NYSE) (93%); MS (NYSE) (84%); FTR (NASDAQ) (82%); FST (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS453210 OFFICE SUPPLIES & STATIONERY STORES (93%); SIC5943 STATIONERY STORES (93%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (82%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (71%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (71%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (71%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (70%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (70%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (70%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (70%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (70%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (69%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (69%); SIC2321 MEN'S & BOYS' SHIRTS, EXCEPT WORK SHIRTS (69%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (53%); 

CITY: BOISE, ID, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: OFFICEMAX INC (93%); CHRYSLER FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (84%); FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORP (82%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (72%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (72%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (71%); PRISM ENTERTAINMENT CORP (71%); FOREST OIL CORP (70%); SERVICE FRACTURING CO (69%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (69%); APPAREL GROUP LTD (69%); NYNEX CORP (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOISE CASCADE CORP

SUBJECT: No Index Terms FINANCIAL RATINGS (93%); COMMON STOCK (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PREFERRED STOCK (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (79%); BONDS (79%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (75%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (70%); INTERBANK LENDING (57%); 



511 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 260 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Selling Bills and Notes This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of issues this week includes today's regular weekly auction of three- and six-month bills and two- and four-year note auctions tomorrow and Wednesday, respectively.
By late Friday, the outstanding three-month bill was bid at 7.66 percent, while the six-month bill was bid at 7.41 percent. On a when-issued basis the new two-year note is offered at a price to yield 7.66 percent, while the four-year note is at 7.70 percent.
Elsewhere, the Federal Farm Credit Banks Funding Corporation said it planned to announce on Wednesday the interest rates for three issues of Federal Farm Credit Banks consolidated systemwide bonds totaling $2.435 billion.
The following new fixed-income issues are scheduled this week:
 
TAX-EXEMPT
TUESDAY
Illinois, $110 million in sales tax revenue bonds. Competitive.
TENTATIVE OFFERINGS THIS WEEK
Cleveland, $75 million in airport special revenue bonds for a project of Continental Airlines Inc., a subsidiary of Texas Air Corp.
Fulco Hospital Authority, Ga., $90 million in revenue bonds for St. Joseph's Hospital in Atlanta. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
Illinois Students Assistance Commission, $67.6 million in student loan revenue and refunding bonds. Manufacturers Hanover Securities Corporation.
Orlando Utilities Commission, Fla., $225 million in debt securities. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
Pennsylvania Convention Center Authority, $270 million in revenue bonds. Paine Webber Inc.
New York State Dormitory Authority, $83.3 million in debt securities. Paine Webber.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522130 CREDIT UNIONS (83%); SIC6061 CREDIT UNIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (83%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (69%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (69%); NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (67%); NAICS221119 OTHER ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (67%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%); GEORGIA, USA (72%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL FARM CREDIT BANKS FUNDING CORP (83%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (69%); ORLANDO UTILITIES COMMISSION (67%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; AUCTIONS BONDS (94%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); AIRLINES (78%); SALES TAX (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); STUDENT LOANS (74%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); TAX LAW (68%); HOSPITALS (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (67%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (66%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 



512 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 10, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Press;
Journalistic Issue in Alaska: Do Oil and Newspapers Mix?

BYLINE: By Alex S Jones

 BODY:
THE ANCHORAGE TIMES, Alaska's second-largest daily, is now owned by the state's biggest oilfield-services company.
Veco International Inc., which the Exxon Corporation hired to clean up its monumental oil spill last spring, completed its acquisition Thursday. It has declared that it was buying the paper to insure that pro-oil, pro-development sentiment in Alaska was heard.
To Billy James Allen, the owner of Veco and now the publisher of The Times, that means strong advocacy on the editorial page and ''true facts'' in the news columns, as opposed to what he terms the anti-development bias of The Anchorage Daily News, the state's largest newspaper. 
''I think that it's real important that the state of Alaska has two voices,'' Mr. Allen said, adding that The Times's news coverage would be fair and full, even if that means publishing unflattering articles about oil companies or Veco itself.
But seldom in recent memory has a new owner had an inherent credibility problem as daunting as Mr. Allen's, and he concedes that he has a lot to prove. The stakes are high. For Alaska, where there is much debate about development, a perception that The Times's news coverage is tainted could discredit the very political views that Mr. Allen hopes to promote, and he could lose a fortune.
If Veco succeeds in winning the confidence of Anchorage's readers, other corporations with strong political agendas could decide that going into the newspaper business is a good idea. In the past, this has been considered highly suspect.
Robert B. Atwood, the 82-year-old former owner of The Times, said he thought that most Alaskans cared little whether the newspaper they read was owned by a company with ties to the oil industry.
When Veco made an offer for The Times last summer, at a price that has not been disclosed, Mr. Atwood was concerned that under Veco's ownership readers would consider the paper ''a house organ for the oil industry.''
In July, Mr. Allen hired Hellenthal & Associates, a polling organization, to ask people whether they were ''more likely or less likely to read a newspaper that is owned by an Alaska company associated with the oil industry.''
A representative of Hellenthal said 25.7 percent of those interviewed in the Anchorage area said they were more likely to read it, 24 percent said they were less likely and 50.3 percent said it made no difference.
Mr. Atwood said he wanted to sell The Times to someone based in Alaska who shared the pro-development and pro-oil views that the paper has vigorously championed since he acquired it in 1935.
For instance, barely a month after the Exxon Valdez dumped millions of gallons of crude oil into Prince William Sound in what is generally considered Alaska's worst ecological disaster, The Times editorial page declared: ''Every cloud has its silver lining, they say. And that's certainly true of the oil spill.''
That silver lining, the editorial said, was the large cleanup effort that in turn prompted the ''biggest economic bonanza'' since the height of pipeline construction.
The Daily News, which has been owned by McClatchy Newspapers since 1979, viewed the spill much less positively. Because of chain ownership, The News was able to spend lavishly to cover it.
Howard C. Weaver, the managing editor of The News, said his paper published more than 600 articles on the spill. He cited McClatchy's willingness to spend money as a critical factor in The News's success in surpassing The Times in circulation over the last decade.
Mr. Atwood noted that The Times had to cover the event with fewer people and had not been able to match The News's financial muscle.
He also said Veco's huge resources, including windfall profits from cleaning up the oil spill, were an important reason he chose the company as the buyer. Mr. Allen declined to give profit figures on Veco, but he said revenues this year would total about $250 million.
Mr. Allen, who is 52 years old and came to Alaska to start a construction business in 1969, said he was prepared to invest heavily in The Times.
While there was some concern expressed by staff members when the sale was announced, he said, no one has resigned, perhaps because one of his first acts was to grant across-the-board raises of 5 percent. He also advised the staff of The Times that like all Veco workers, they would be subject to random drug testing.
Mr. Allen is no stranger to the power of the press. Articles in The News prompted an investigation that eventually led to Mr. Allen being fined $28,000 in 1985 for violating state campaign finance laws.
But Mr. Allen says he is not out for revenge. Indeed, he says, The News's position of dominance over The Times is justified.
''They put out a better newspaper,'' he said.
For Mr. Weaver, the prospect of competing with a newspaper owned and operated by a prominent member of the oil fraternity is unsettling in that there is now a powerful Alaska institution in the hands of a person with what he sees as a conflict of interest.
''We're obvious enemies,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing; chart of circulation figures for newspapers in Anchorage (Source: Audit Bureau of Circulation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (91%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (97%); 

CITY: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (93%); VECO INTERNATIONAL INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: VECO INTERNATIONAL; ANCHORAGE TIMES

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ALASKA

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; NEWSPAPERS NEWS REPORTING (90%); OIL SPILLS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (78%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); PUBLISHING (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); 

PERSON: JONES, ALEX S



513 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 12, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL REPORT;
Japan Outpaces U.S. in Income

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 17

 BODY:
The average income in the United States rose slightly in 1988, but was far outpaced by Japan, the World Bank reported on Friday.
The average per capita income in the United States last year was $19,780, compared with $18,580 in 1987. In Japan, the average income rose from $15,840 to $21,040, the World Bank said. The bank gave all incomes in United States dollars.
The Swiss continued to rank first in per capita income with a 1988 average of $27,260, up from $21,310 in 1987. Mozambique ranked lowest among the 152 members of the World Bank with a 1988 annual per capita income of $100.
The United States, which in 1987 ranked second only to Switzerland, was fifth last year, behind Switzerland, Japan, Iceland and Norway.
The average in Iceland was $20,160, while in Norway it was $20,020.
Much of the rise in Japanese income can be attributed to an increase in the value of the yen in comparison with the dollar, as well as to increased Japanese production. Elsewhere, differences could be linked to shifts in the value of the dollar compared with other currencies. The dollar has been rising in 1989 after a fall that began in 1985.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); ICELAND (68%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD)

SUBJECT: JAPAN; INCOME; UNITED STATES ECONOMY INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); JAPANESE YEN (66%); 



514 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 2971 words

HEADLINE: Absent Watchdogs - A Reagan Legacy;
Regulators Say 80's Budget Cuts May Cost U.S. Billions in 1990's

BYLINE: By JEFF GERTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 18

 BODY:
In their zeal to cut the fat out of Government, Reagan Administration officials also cut the managerial muscle that was responsible for watching over the Government's financial liabilities and obligations, reports by Congressional and Government investigators show.
Past and present Government accountants and management experts say the result is tens of billions of dollars in losses and the potential for untold billions more.
But the costs are not just financial, these experts said. As more and more essential functions have been turned over to private parties as part of ''privatization,'' the Government's control and its accountability to the public have been eroded.
These developments have been most visibly illustrated in the Federal Government's bailout of the savings and loan industry and the repeated revelations about the political manipulation of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. But they represent just the edge of much deeper Government-wide management problems that are at the heart of an estimated $300 billion in past and future losses, said the head of the General Accounting Office. While about half of that represents the cost of the Federal bailout of the savings and loan industry, the rest is spread throughout the Government. 
 
'Really Pound-Foolish'
During the Reagan years, ''we tried as a Government not to get on anyone's back,'' said Frederick D. Wolf, until recently responsible for accounting and financial management at the accounting office, an arm of Congress. ''But if you do it in the oversight area, you're going to have a problem.''
He said the Reagan Administration failed to distinguish between reducing the paperwork burden imposed by the Government on businesses and individuals and maintaining oversight over its own liabilities. As a result, he said, ''budget cuts fell disproportionately on enforcement, oversight, management and accounting functions.''
Charles A. Bowsher, who heads the General Accounting Office, told a Senate panel last month: ''When you look at what happened in the S&L crisis and look at the situation at H.U.D. and things like that, if we had proper systems, if we had the adequate financial reporting, if we had the right number of auditors to go out and check on this, we would have saved billions of dollars. In other words, we have been penny-wise and really pound-foolish here.''
Mr. Bowsher estimated that recent past losses in the $5 trillion Federal insurance and credit assistance area ''total in the $200 billion range,'' with $139 billion of that stemming from the insolvency of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. And he said the Government stands to lose another $100 billion in the near future, including $38 billion in credits from the Agriculture Department, $10 billion to $20 billion owed the Pentagon for foreign military sales, $5 billion in delinquent student loans, at least $5 billion at the Housing Department plus tens of billions in debts owed the Internal Revenue Service.
''It's a very scary situation for the Federal Government and the American taxpayer,'' Mr. Bowsher said.
 
Tougher Stance Now
In the last six months, the White House budget office, which oversees the budgets and management of all the departments, has begun to take a firmer hand in managing the Government, in hopes of heading off another crisis. It has ordered agencies to identify their problems and prodded them into follow-up action. More people have been hired by some departments for supervision. And private contractors are being more closely supervised.
To be sure, the Reagan Administration inherited problems, like neglected nuclear production plants, bad loans made in previous administrations and outdated information and accounting systems. And economic downturns in the Southwest have contributed to loan defaults.
But Mr. Bowsher said in an interview that improper management magnified the losses from the economic misfortunes.
 
Private vs. Public Interests
The Reagan Administration did improve how the Federal Government manages its cash and also updated some financial and accounting systems.
One of Mr. Reagan's pet managerial projects was to contract out Government services to private parties, who are less accountable to the public than Federal employees. Whereas the public has a right to find out a Federal employee's salary, job description and potential conflicts of interest, this information is not available for contractors, even as they play an increasingly larger role in essential Government functions. Private contractors also cannot be disciplined or supervised as easily as civil servants.
Right now, the White House budget office says it does not know how many consultants the departments have under contract. Nor can many departments keep track of their financial risks because they have been slow to implement the more rigorous audit and management practices that are standard in private industry.
The budget office cut the staff of its own management division by 42 percent during the Reagan Administration in its drive to set an example for other agencies, the General Accounting Office has reported. And it is now clear that the budget office had one person, working part time, evaluating annual management reports by every department and compiling what the current budget director, Richard G. Darman, calls simply ''statistical tallies'' of the problems listed in the reports.
 
'A Level of Detail'
James C. Miller 3d, budget director in the Reagan Administration, says he never read any of those reports. ''That was a level of detail I didn't follow personally,'' he said in an interview, adding that the Administration was more focused on the philosophy of reducing Government than on the financial details. ''We tried to zero out programs,'' he said. ''That meant less attention was paid.''
Mr. Miller added, ''Our perception was that waste came out of Congress in the form of wasteful programs.''
Now, said Mr. Darman, who was Deputy Treasury Secretary in the Reagan Administration, and Frank Hodsoll, now the top management official at the budget office, the management reports are the centerpiece of efforts to keep track of performance and risks in the departments.
Under questioning from Senator John Glenn at a Senate Governmental Affairs Committee hearing, Mr. Bowsher agreed with the Ohio Democrat's statement that the recent drive to turn over more Government functions to the private sector ''has had the perverse effect in increasing waste, fraud and abuse instead of decreasing it.''
 
The Problems
More Bad Debts, Neglect of Services
Dozens of interviews, Congressional testimony and a review by The New York Times of hundreds of management reports and audits issued each year since 1983 reveal this formidable array of problems:
* Growing losses. The total of the Government's annual losses from defaulted loans to uncollected debts like taxes owed by people and companies, is now bigger than the annual Federal budget deficit. The losses have steadily risen from less than $40 billion a year in the early 1980's to $115 billion last year.
* Identifying liabilities. Though tracking of bad debts has improved, total losses are actually higher than reported and not quantifiable, the budget office says.
* Neglecting basic investments. Basic functions like collecting taxes, maintaining bridges and controlling air traffic have been deprived of resources, Mr. Bowsher of the General Accounting Office says. To make up for the neglect of these services, the Government will end up paying hundreds of billions of dollars, adding to the Federal budget deficit, he said.
* The brain drain. The widening disparity between salaries paid by private industry and the Government has resulted in the loss of crucial technical expertise in areas like computers and accounting.
''The Government has a hard time attracting qualified people due to low pay and turnover,'' said Gerald Riso, who was the top management official at the White House budget office until early this year. As a result, he said, the Government's information technology is ''contracted out to consultants a lot with sparse institutional monitoring of their work.''
Senator David Pryor, the Arkansas Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Governmental Affairs subcommittee on Federal services, said the reliance on contractors throughout the Government has gone far beyond hiring private security guards or janitors. It has become so extensive that ''neither O.M.B. nor the Congress is aware of the degree to which the basic management of our Government has been delegated to contractors,'' he said.
Senator Pryor has estimated that the Government had as much as $26 billion in consulting contracts in 1987, but he was relying on Government-generated figures. Mr. Hodsoll said, however, that the Government is unable to compile accurate data on consultant use.
In an interview, Mr. Hodsoll described the Government's growing use of consultants as a ''horrible problem'' that has reached the point that at some agencies ''you have contractors supervising contractors.''
Senator Pryor noted that raises more fundamental questions than those of efficiency. ''Contractors, not Government officials, often have effective responsibility for the most basic decision making,'' he said. The Environmental Protection Agency, for instance, is relying on private contractors for everything from rule writing to rule enforcement, he said. At the Energy Department, contractors are drafting Congressional testimony for top officials and helping to interpret and write legislation.
Indeed, the situation is so confused that the Energy Department in 1988 hired a management consulting firm, Booz Allen & Hamilton, to develop the department's plan to keep track of how many consultants it has and what they do.
 
The Abuses
Housing Programs To Nuclear Plants
Senator Pryor is upset that Federal information laws classify as ''business secrets'' the names, salaries, job descriptions and potential conflicts of interests of contractor employees, information routinely available for Federal employees.
Nor, he said, are contract employees subject to salary limitations. At the Energy Department, consultants earn 15 percent to 50 percent more than senior managers at the department's headquarters for doing comparable work, according to a recent internal study disclosed to a Senate subcommittee last month. The Energy Department's top management official told the subcommittee that contractors are paid up to twice as much as comparable Federal employees on contracts to operate weapons laboratories around the country.
And unlike the marketplace, there is little incentive for efficient performance. At the Energy Department, in fact, contractors are reimbursed for fines or penalties they may incur for violating Federal safety procedures.
Revelations about neglect at the Energy Department's contractor-run nuclear plants have shown that during the early years of the Reagan Administration, cuts in Government safety and technical personnel at the plants proved to be costly mistakes. More recently, additional people have been added in this area.
Similarly, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration has become so reliant on contractors that its senior officials have said it may be losing its ability to manage its operations and maintain safety. A Presidential inquiry into the cause of the 1986 explosion of the space shuttle Challenger recommended that cuts in safety and technical personnel during the Reagan years be restored.
Contractor dependence is also an issue at the Environmental Protection Agency. The agency was one of the few that had an overall increase in staff in the Reagan years. But while its Federal work force increased by 11 percent in the last decade, its budget for contractors increased by 300 percent. A report by the Office of Technology Assessment, also an arm of Congress, on the agency's $10 billion Superfund to clean up toxic wastes found that contractors ''play a major role in conceiving, analyzing and structuring policies and tasks.''
''Privatization of Government programs is not in conflict with public interest, but ONLY if there is effective Government management and oversight,'' the report said.
The office's report found similar contracting practices at the E.P.A. and the Pentagon, including the revolving door phenomenon in which individuals move freely between Government work and private industry. A General Accounting Office report issued in 1987 found that the percentage of political appointees in the higher ranks of five Cabinet agencies went up by about 50 percent in the Reagan years. And that has caused problems for those agencies as political appointees worked for Government for only a short time, and then left to capitalize on their experience.
The revolving door is a crucial issue in the abuses found by Federal investigators in Pentagon contracting. Since the abuses surfaced last year, about three dozen consultants, former Pentagon officials and military contracting executives have pleaded guilty to charges stemming from attempts to defraud the contracting process.
Domestic programs as well have suffered costly losses from lack of oversight.
The inability of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, the now-defunct agency that supervised the savings and loan industry, to hire additional examiners several years ago played a major role in the savings and loan crisis, said Edwin Gray, the former head of the board. ''If we had gotten help earlier we could have reduced, headed off the whole crisis, period,'' he said in an interview. When they turned down requests for additional examiners in 1984 and 1985, officials at the White House budget office told him, ''The policy of the Administration is to get the Government off the backs of business,'' Mr. Gray recalled.
As part of deregulation, the Housing Department shifted its role from lender of Federal money to guarantor of private loans. Under the new system, private lenders underwrite the mortgages and collect much of the interest while the Federal Government insures the loans and thus takes most of the risk.
A recent outside audit of the Federal Housing Administration, a Housing Department unit that insures $305 billion in mortgages, found that the department underestimated the F.H.A.'s losses in 1988. The losses were actually $4.2 billion instead of $850 million, the auditors found. The losses stemmed in large part from Washington's lax supervision of its private partners, the audit by Price Waterhouse-U.S. found.
Similar audits, by private firms that use more rigorous accounting methods than the Government does, have not been conducted at other agencies holding large Federal loans and loan guarantees.
At other agencies, where private lenders assumed a greater role in lending programs, there was lax supervision, the inspector generals of the agencies and the General Accounting Office have found.
One agricultural unit, the Farmers Home Administration, alone faces losses of $26 billion in farm loans, in part because of the faltering farm economy but also partly because of the reluctance by the Farmers Home Administration to crack down on deficiencies in the way private lenders were processing the loans for fear of alienating them, the department's inspector general reported in 1988.
A report this fall by the General Accounting Office found that the fast growth in loan guarantees at the farm lending agency has increased the Government's overall financial exposure while benefiting private lenders by reducing their risk. In a separate report, the accounting office found that in 1987 the farm lending agency withdrew tighter criteria for loans to farmers after Congress expressed concern that some borrowers would be ineligible for further assistance.
 
The Response
More Supervision, More Investment
In his first week in office, President Bush called the inspectors general for the Cabinet departments to the White House. Throwing away his briefing notes, the new President appealed to the inspectors to serve as his early warning system against budget disasters like the failures in the savings and loan crisis industry and the cleanup of the Energy Department's nuclear weapons complex.
Over the last six months, more oversight personnel with expertise in technical, safety and information processing are being hired in the environmental and space agencies as well as the budget office. Contractors at departments like Energy and Housing and Urban Development are being more closely supervised and more money is being spent on long-term investments like upgrading the Internal Revenue Service computer system.
''The I.R.S. has enormous computer problems,'' Mr. Hodsoll said. ''By the early 1990's they won't be able to process tax returns.'' He added that ''the I.R.S. is at the top of the list'' of areas requiring more resources.
Mr. Hodsoll said the budget office has also imposed more stringent guidelines when departments sell off Government loans to the private sector, a major ''management improvement'' initiative of the Reagan Administration that Mr. Bowsher said had ''terrible problems,'' in part because the government ''sells off the better loans.''
Nonetheless, some critics in Congress as well as the executive branch think more is needed. Management is a neglected Washington art, Mr. Darman told Congress, and he acknowledged in a recent interview that he had neglected it, too, when he was Deputy Treasury Secretary. He attributed Washington's inattentiveness, in part, to the ''Hollywood East syndrome,'' in which senior department officials are infatuated by political and media glitter and not the dull work of bureaucracy and supervision.

GRAPHIC: Graph of cutbacks in the Government (source: Office of Personnel Management) (NYT) (pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: A special report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT (59%); OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT (59%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS ACCOUNTING (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); BANK FAILURES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (69%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (68%); CITIES (53%); 

PERSON: GERTH, JEFF; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (90%); 



515 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 9, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: What the U.S. Said About China in June

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 18

 BODY:
The Bush Administration secretly renewed high-level contacts with China in early July, shortly after imposing sanctions over Beijing's crackdown on dissent in June. Here is the text of the statement on the sanctions issued by the White House on June 20. 
The President today directed that the U.S. Government suspend participation in all high-level exchanges of Government officials with the People's Republic of China, in addition to the suspension of military exchanges previously announced. This action is being taken in response to the wave of violence and reprisals by the Chinese authorities against those who have called for democracy. The United States has supported the legitimate democratic aspirations for freedom of peoples throughout the world. The United States will continue to voice its concern and its support for these aspirations.
The United States hopes that the current tragedy in China be brought to a peaceful end and that dialogue will replace the atmosphere of suspicion and reprisal. China is an important state with which we hope to continue productive relations.
In addition to the ban on exchanges, the United States will seek to postpone consideration of new international financial institutions' loans to China. The situation in China is of international concern, as witnessed by the variety of voices that have spoken up on the issue. We urge continued international expressions of concern.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); TAIWAN (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); RIOTS (70%); FOREIGN LENDING (65%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SCOWCROFT, BRENT; EAGLEBURGER, LAWRENCE S (DEPUTY SEC)



516 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East;
German Momentum

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WEST BERLIN, Dec. 18

 BODY:
While politicians in Washington, Moscow, London and Paris debate whether the two Germanys can unite, and when, Germans are rushing ahead with practical steps that could soon make unification either inevitable or superfluous.
All the major political parties in both East and West Germany, and both Governments, have pronounced themselves in favor of far closer association of the two countries, for different reasons. Every one but the East German Communist Party has also expressed support for some kind of confederation, the distinctions being not whether political integration should proceed but how much of it there should be.
The East German Prime Minister, Hans Modrow, the most widely respected political leader in his country at the moment, has said that in parts of the West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl's 10-point plan for German unity he saw a positive answer to his own earlier proposal for a ''treaty-community'' between the two states. 
 
Modrow and Kohl to Meet
Mr. Modrow and Mr. Kohl will meet in Dresden on Tuesday to discuss concrete terms of closer association. But more important, both Governments will probably agree then to accelerate a more significant process of change, one that has already begun - economic integration.
''West Germany has the highest rate of savings in Western Europe,'' Ulrich Pfeiffer, a consultant in Bonn, said recently. ''We have enough capital to finance the reconstruction of the East German economy all by ourselves.'' Talks are already under way among dozens of West German firms and East German state enterprises on joint ventures and other forms of cooperation that would build on decades of low-key contacts.
From the urgency with which Gregor Gysi, the East German Communist Party leader, keeps warning of a ''sellout'' of the relatively backward, impoverished economy of his country, it is evident that many East Germans fear that the result will be practical economic annexation by West Germany.
For that reason, Mr. Gysi appealed to the United States in an interview last week not to leave the question of aid to East Germany to West Germany alone.
The speed with which Germans are moving toward each other these days could, paradoxically, make Western support for East Germany's continued separate existence its most powerful political bargaining tool with Bonn. The same factor has also set the stage for serious conflict between West Germany and its Western allies, and possibly to a lesser extent between East Germany and the Soviet Union.
 
Allies Want to Have a Say
The United States, France and Britain, which signed away the occupation rights of sovereignty in their zones of Germany from 1952 to 1955, carefully kept their rights to have a say in the affairs of Berlin and Germany as a whole, including the reunification question. They were therefore annoyed when Mr. Kohl announced his 10-point plan on Nov. 28 without consulting them, just as the Soviet Union had been irked when East Germany announced on its own the opening of its western borders on Nov. 9.
The American, French, British and Soviet Governments reasserted their presence in a meeting of their Ambassadors here on Dec. 11, and the United States Secretary of State, James A. Baker 3d, gave much-appreciated symbolic support to Mr. Modrow the next day by going to visit him in Potsdam.
In West Berlin today, the West German opposition Social Democratic Party, which when in power in the 1970's all but recognized East Germany as a separate state, met to approve a policy statement calling for ''conditions of peace in Europe in which the German people achieve unity in free self-determination.'' The Social Democratic leadership also called on the four World War II Allies to give up their rights over Berlin and ''Germany as a whole'' and sign a peace treaty with the two German states, together or separately.
Commenting on the Western allies' irritation over the German insistence on unity, Rudolf Augstein, publisher of Der Spiegel magazine, wrote sarcastically today, ''They always act as if we wanted something indecent.'' In fact, the problem is that while the Western powers formally support reunification, they have not really meant it - or thought seriously about what it would mean - for years.
 
Support for Separate Country
Der Spiegel and the West German television network Zweites Deutsches Fernsehen commissioned a public opinion poll of 1,032 East German voters in the first week of December. It showed that 71 percent of those polled wanted their country to remain separate and sovereign, the magazine reported today. Merger with West Germany was supported by 27 percent, but by only 7 percent of the Communist Party members polled, the magazine said.
The non-Communist parties and other political movements in East Germany are less afraid than the Communists to embrace the idea of confederation. ''The catastrophic situation in our plants can only be cured by very high investment of capital from Western countries,'' said Lothar de Maiziere, the new chairman of the East German Christian Democratic Union, at a party conference over the weekend that dropped all commitment to socialism, which it had supported for 40 years.
''This isn't blackmail by Western monopolies,'' he said. ''It's not a sell-out of the East Germany economy. It's just the logic of the market.'' He called for ''the most far-reaching adaptation and integration'' of the two countries' economies.
Somewhat by surprise, several leaders of West Germany's Christian Democratic Union, which had previously avoided any contact with the East German party, dropped in on the conference to express their support for its new course.
 
Visit From Two Bonn Officials
And Mr. Genscher and Norbert Blum, the West German Minister for Employment, were present in Leipzig last weekend as Democratic Awakening, an East German protest movement, constituted itself as a political party.
It, too, debated the reunification question, adopting a program calling for eventual German unity in a framework of complete disarmament. Democracy Now, another movement that has not yet decided whether to form a political party, has also come out with a program for unification in stages, the first of which would leave East German sovereignty intact.
Mr. Gysi said last week that like Mr. Modrow, he believes that what Germans need now is not a theoretical prescription for unity but practical negotiations to get the two Governments working together for the common good. Drawing an unusual parallel to the long cooperation between the Lutheran Churches of East and West Germany, Mr. Gysi said, ''The Protestant churches have worked very closely together for a long time, while recognizing each other's independence and sovereignty. Here is experience that could also be useful for others.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); FRANCE (88%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TRENDS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (58%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (55%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; KOHL, HELMUT (CHANCELLOR); MODROW, HANS (PRIME MIN) HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (92%); HELMUT KOHL (92%); 



517 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: When Life Is a Medical and Not a Legal Issue

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Right to Die? Yes. Medical Issue? No'' by Yale Kamisar (Op-Ed, Dec. 6) represents outdated, legalistic thinking on medical decision making. My fear is that the Supreme Court in the case of Nancy Cruzan, a Missouri woman in a vegetative state as the result of an auto accident, whose family's plea to remove her feeding tube was denied by Missouri's highest court, will adopt similar reasoning. 
According to Professor Kamisar's legalistic approach, the state maintains the right to preserve the patient's life, even though health care providers and family members agree that treatment should be withdrawn. But the state has no legitimate interest in a case such as Nancy Cruzan's, where the patient is in a persistent vegetative state. This is a diagnosis involving irreversible brain damage in patients who pass from deep coma into a state of apparent wakefulness, but without any awareness or response to their surroundings. Patients in a persistent vegetative state virtually never regain awareness.
The state interest asserted in the life of a person in this condition is purely theoretical. Where an individual has no meaningful interaction with her environment, no recognition of people or objects, nor any human feelings or experience, the state interest in ''life'' is no more than an abstraction.
All the emotional and economic burden is borne by the family, which suffers from the refusal of the law to allow a decision to dignify a natural death process. The right of a person in a persistent vegetative state to be allowed to die, whether by withdrawal of artificial respiration or of hydration and nutrition, is well grounded in bioethical thinking. What greater purpose could a constitutional right to privacy achieve than to reject unwarranted state intrusion into such an intimate moment as death? The only state interest here is to require a process that insures both a reliable diagnosis of a persistent vegetative state and properly motivated decision makers.
Lawyers sometimes believe that by framing medical issues as legal ones, and by requiring court intervention, human rights are preserved. But to thrust a lengthy judicial process on so private a decision in so clear a case is merely an obstacle to the justice and decency the dying and their families deserve.
 
LARRY GOSTIN
Executive Director, American
Society of Law & Medicine
 Boston, Dec. 11, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI (57%); SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI (57%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LIFE-SUSTAINING SUPPORT SYSTEMS, WITHDRAWAL OF; DEATHS; ETHICS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); END OF LIFE DECISIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); ETHICS (78%); DEATH & DYING (78%); BIOETHICS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HEALTH CARE (73%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (69%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (63%); 

PERSON: KAMISAR, YALE; GOSTIN, LARRY; CRUZAN, NANCY NANCY CRUZAN (73%); 



518 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: IN THE NATION;
A White House Ghost

BYLINE: By Tom Wicker

 BODY:
Were President Reagan and Vice President Bush, as he was then, more culpably involved in the Iran-contra scandal than either has admitted? We may never know for sure, but the possibility, like some vengeful ghost, keeps coming back to haunt them.
Former Adm. John Poindexter, for example, will attempt in his forthcoming trial to portray Mr. Reagan as an informed, active participant in the sale of arms to Iran and the attempt to divert the proceeds to the contras in Nicaragua. Such a portrayal contradicts the picture Mr. Poindexter, the former national security adviser, painted of Mr. Reagan during Congressional hearings in 1987. 
Also, Joe Pichirallo and Walter Pincus have reported in The Washington Post that a State Department document - curiously overlooked in previous searches - shows George Shultz, when he was Secretary of State, to have approved a plan to expedite aid to Honduras in 1985 to assure continuing Honduran support for the contras.
That ''quid pro quo'' has been denied by officials of two Administrations, including Mr. Shultz and Mr. Bush. On May 4, 1989, the latter told reporters that ''the word of the President of the United States, George Bush, is that there was no quid pro quo.''
Yet the newly discovered document, a memorandum to Mr. Shultz from Langhorne Motley, then the Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs, was quoted by The Post: ''It was agreed [by senior officials meeting Feb. 7, 1985] that some combination of efforts was needed to encourage the Hondurans to remain firm in their support for [the contras]. . . .''
The memorandum was initialed by Mr. Shultz. It specified expedited economic and military aid, recommended a letter from Mr. Reagan to President Suazo of Honduras assuring him of support and calling for cooperation, and suggested an ''oral demarche'' to Mr. Suazo in which ''our intentions and expectations would be made clear.''
During the trial of Oliver North this April, a related memorandum of Feb. 19, 1985, was disclosed. Addressed to Mr. Reagan by Robert C. McFarlane, then the national security adviser, it detailed ''incentives'' planned to persuade Honduras to continue supporting the contras. Mr. Reagan approved the document with his initials.
In his May 4 statement, President Bush denied that he made the ''oral demarche'' to Mr. Suazo when he visited Honduras on March 16, 1985, within weeks of the Motley and McFarlane memos.
Mr. Poindexter is scheduled for trial in January on charges of obstructing Congressional inquiries and making false statements to Congress about the Iran-contra affair. His defense, Judge Harold H. Greene disclosed in a court order, will allege that Mr. Reagan ''formulated the Administration's position for the guidance of Poindexter.''
That would be at sharp variance with Mr. Poindexter's testimony to Congress, in which he took sole responsibility for the diversion of arms-sales funds to the contras at a time when Congress had prohibited aid to them, and described Mr. Reagan as a detached President uninterested in details.
Mr. Poindexter was granted immunity for his Congressional testimony, which now cannot be used against him. But the difference between that testimony and the defense planned for his trial raises the possibility that he then was protecting a President still in office, and now seeks to defend himself by accusing a former President, who may be immune from prosecution.
Mr. Reagan, by refusing to provide documents requested by the Poindexter defense, may contribute further to the already prevalent impression that he was more involved in the Iran-contra matter than has been disclosed. If, moreover, Attorney General Dick Thornburgh - George Bush's appointee - blocks use of other classified documents Mr. Poindexter claims are essential to his defense, Judge Greene might have to dismiss the charges on grounds that the defendant cannot be accorded a fair trial. Mr. Thornburgh recently took that drastic step in another Iran-contra case, forcing Judge Greene to dismiss charges against Joseph F. Fernandez, a former C.I.A. official.
A forced dismissal of the important Poindexter case not only would leave Oliver North as a real Iran-contra scapegoat, the only high Reagan Administration official to be convicted of wrongdoing. Inevitably, it also would heighten the suspicion that President Bush, too, has so much to hide that he fears to put Mr. Poindexter on trial.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: HONDURAS (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NICARAGUA (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (56%); 

SUBJECT: IRAN-CONTRA AFFAIR; TRIALS; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; CLASSIFICATION OF INFORMATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); APPROVALS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); 

PERSON: WICKER, TOM; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); NORTH, OLIVER L; POINDEXTER, JOHN M RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



519 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: The 'Peace Dividend': A Rubber Check

BYLINE: By Jim Sasser; Jim Sasser, Democrat of Tennessee, is chairman of the Senate Budget Committee.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
In what is being billed by the Administration as a victory for ''deficit reduction,'' the Pentagon is settling for a fiscal 1991 budget of $292 billion.
This nod toward fiscal responsibility follows Administration announcements that it is contemplating dramatic Pentagon reductions in response to the relaxation of world tensions: $180 billion in cuts over four years; cuts of up to 290,000 from the nation's 2.1 million troops; a cut of some 23,000 jobs from the 580,000-strong procurement bureacracy.
On the basis of those promised economies, we are seriously debating the question of what to do with the ''peace dividend.'' But how can we speak of a peace dividend with a military budget of $292 billion? The peace dividend, as currently constituted, is a rubber check. 
The $292 billion defense budget for fiscal 1991 actually represents an increase of some $5 billion from 1990. It would save only about $4.7 billion from current inflation-adjusted spending levels - a mere fraction of the $40 billion to $60 billion we'll need to hit next year's deficit target under Gramm-Rudman.
Worse still, the purported $180 billion ''cut'' actually takes, as its starting point, the Administration's ''wish list'' budget, which would have raised Pentagon spending by some $200 billion above a true freeze level between now and 1994.
Defense Secretary Dick Cheney has apparently concluded that even a $20 billion increase over the next five years is more austerity than the Pentagon can absorb. But it is clear that the Secretary's worst case scenario - the deepest ''cuts'' he's currently considering - would produce a ''peace dividend'' that is actually a $20 billion debit.
To put all of that as simply as possible, the Pentagon gets $287 billion in the budget just passed for fiscal 1990. Under the exercise in ''austerity'' proposed by the Secretary, the Pentagon would get more than $290 billion annually through the mid-90's.
The Secretary's proposal appears to have been driven wholly by the desire to offer some public acknowledgment that the world has indeed changed. But it is a grudging acknowledgment at best.
It assumes continuation of virtually all of the Pentagon's priorities and programs, and it eschews entirely a fundamental re-evaluation of our military establishment in light of our changing security needs. Such a reappraisal has to be the beginning point.
Fully half of our $287 billion military budget is devoted to defending Western Europe against the now remote threat of a Warsaw Pact invasion.
Earlier this month, the Pentagon acknowledged that its estimate of a two-week mobilization period for a full-scale Soviet invasion seriously overstated the threat: 33 to 44 days is a far more likely projection. That profoundly exaggerated threat assessment was inflating our defense budget long before the Iron Curtain began to rise and the potential for hostilities in Europe began to decline.
After we make adjustments for ''the common European home,' which now appears to be under construction, the entire frame of reference for America's defense expenditures changes radically.
If we add to all this the potential for completing treaties to slash strategic nuclear arms and conventional forces in Europe, we should be aiming for a military budget that returns to the post-Vietnam Nixon-Ford era average: somewhere in the range of $215 billion in constant 1990 dollars.
That is a legitimate target, once we cast a critical eye on all our military assumptions, from our entire force structure to the weapons systems now in the pipeline: from the $35 billion advanced tactical aircraft to the $45 billion advanced tactical fighter to the $70 billion B-2 bomber.
Our allies and our former adversaries have already begun to respond decisively. West Germany is talking about reducing its ground forces by 20 percent. Hungary has unofficially asked that Soviet troops be removed from within its borders, and Czechoslovakia seems to be following suit.
Those countries, and many others in both the East and the West, are poised to advance into a world in which the strength of nations will be measured in economic output. We should prepare to do the same.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SASSER, JIM (REPR) DICK CHENEY (58%); 



520 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2334 words

HEADLINE: New York's Sinking Child-Care System Awaits Help

BYLINE: By SUZANNE DALEY

 BODY:
With evidence mounting that New York City's child welfare system is overwhelmed, experts are increasingly suggesting radical changes, including the virtual dismantling of the system.
It could be rebuilt, they say, as a network of small, neighborhood centers at which parents could get help near their homes and abused and neglected children could go into foster care with local families.
The experts are also calling for a range of new services, policy changes and better management to deal with inefficiencies in the system. A lack of computers and the need for paperwork now use up as much as 60 percent of a caseworker's time.
Some suggestions are meant to keep children from needing foster care, others to improve a child's stay in foster care and still others to get better decisions about how long a child should stay in foster care. 
''There is no question that there is a new landscape out there and it's probably going to require changes in the whole continuum of law, policy and practice,'' said Philip Coltoff, the director of the Children's Aid Society, one of the city's largest private foster-care agencies.
In interviews, the experts - Family Court judges, advocates for children and officials working in the system - have made several specific proposals:
* Moving more quickly to free some children in foster care for adoption and finding new alternatives for others.
* Creating new therapeutic institutions and a cadre of highly trained foster parents who can care for children with special medical or emotional needs.
* Raising salaries and creating other career incentives to stem the high turnover rate among workers.
* Paying for a parent's housing with foster-care money, if that is what is needed to reunite a family.
* Making it a crime, punishable by jail, to give birth to a drug-addicted baby.
How much all this would cost is unclear. But most experts agree that while there may be considerable savings in the long run, initially it will be costly.
Major changes may be in the offing. Last summer, as Mayor-elect David N. Dinkins campaigned for office, he denounced the city's efforts as a failure and issued a report on the child welfare system calling for more community-based programs to prevent abuse.
Mr. Dinkins's report, written by a panel of 45 experts he appointed in 1988, called for family-service centers in each of the city's 32 community districts, rent subsidies for parents so children can leave foster care, and better training and pay for caseworkers, among other measures.
''We would expect the report would be used as a blueprint for change,'' said Donna Lawrence, a senior policy adviser to Mr. Dinkins, who has not yet said whom he will appoint to head the Human Resources Administration, the city's mammoth welfare agency that administers child welfare programs.
Even current H.R.A. officials support some of these ideas, or at least support studying them.
Brooke Trent, who heads the Child Welfare Administration in the H.R.A, declined to comment on her agency's shortcomings and any suggested solutions. But one high-ranking official who helps oversee child welfare said speedier adoptions, better salaries for caseworkers and more community-based services should all be considered. The official did not want to be identified because of uncertainty over the direction that the H.R.A. will take under Mr. Dinkins.
 
Rising Needs and Costs In an Ailing System
The number of children in foster care has been rising rapidly in the last four years. There are more than 44,000 children in New York's system, compared with about 16,500 in 1985.
Spending on the system has more than doubled in that time, rising to more than $1 billion this year and making it one of the most expensive systems in the nation, according to the Child Welfare League of America. The Federal Government pays for half the cost, the city and state 25 percent each.
Yet despite the cost, the care given to children has often been shabby, even dangerous. At times children have had to sleep on desktops in city offices. Hundreds have lived like nomads, bouncing from one overnight stay to another for weeks or months because no long-term foster homes were available. Toddlers have languished in overcrowded, unsanitary group homes, and handicapped children have been placed in dilapidated housing with inadequate supervision.
At the same time overburdened workers have been unable to do their jobs properly, resulting in sloppy investigations of abuse, failure to arrange adoptions and poor supervision of troubled families. In a case this year, a baby died after his mother left him all night in an overheated apartment while she went to visit a male companion. The city had been under a court order to watch the mother, but no one had visited her in more than eight months.
Across the country, child welfare systems are feeling many of the same strains as New York, struggling with growing caseloads and new problems brought on by crack addiction, homelessness and AIDS. Possible solutions vary widely because of the differing populations.
In New York City, the system is a huge and complex bureaucracy. It is largely made up of two components: the H.R.A.'s Child Welfare Administration, which investigates charges of abuse and neglect and also supervises and provides some foster homes, and more than 60 private nonprofit agencies that also provide homes and help troubled families.
 
Neighborhood Solutions Viewed as Promising
Some suggestions aim to improve the system across the board. One idea is that the city's child-welfare bureaucracy could be broken into more manageable pieces, organized not by task, but by neighborhoods.
Proponents of the idea see it as creating a more sensitive system in which people might know one another's names and better-informed workers could make sounder decisions about a child's future.
The idea has several variations, but one model of how it might work - often pointed to by experts - is an unusual organization in the Sunset Park section of Brooklyn called the Center for Family Life and run by Sister Mary Paul.
Operating from a small brick building at 345 43d Street in the largely poor and Hispanic neighborhood, the center provides a host of traditional community-service programs, like counseling, after-school activities, parent groups and employment counseling. But in the last year and a half, the center has also gathered a cluster of local families to act as foster parents for neighborhood children, so the youngsters can usually keep going to the same school and see their friends and parents often.
This is in sharp contrast to what usually happens now. Most children in foster care are dispatched to distant parts of the city or suburbs, separated from brothers and sisters and virtually all that they know. Parents, who are striving to reunite their families, must travel great distances to see the children and often can do so only once a month at best.
Proponents say that keeping children in the neighborhood is not only better for them, but also makes it easier for the agency to supervise the foster homes and decide on the child's long-term needs.
Over time relationships are built up in the community. Teachers from the local schools call and give advice or can be called on. Workers learn what it means if a mother is seen out on a certain street corner. Neighbors speak up if a family seems in crisis.
And if the worker sees that a family could be reunited by parent participation in counseling or some other activity, this can often be done at the center.
''We've got to get away from this massive scattershot system with agencies responsible for children all over the city,'' said Barbara Blum, the head of the Foundation for Child Development, which has helped finance the Center for Family Life. ''Part of the reason the system is a mess is that things are being done in such volume.''
One drawback to this idea, noted by H.R.A. officials and others, is the possibility that some neighborhoods are so ravaged that good foster homes cannot be found.
 
A Preventive Approach Is Favored by Some
Apart from administrative reorganizing, many experts think far more could be done to buttress troubled families so that fewer children would need foster care.
This preventive approach, which some say would be economical in the long run, would emphasize more day care, recreational activities and prenatal care, as well as intensive services for families considered at high risk of becoming abusive.
But others say this route could be costly. Since there is no way to determine with certainty that a parent will become abusive, many of the services could go to the wrong families, critics say.
One program that many experts consider very successful is that conducted by Homebuilders, an organization that spends a great deal of time with a family for six to eight weeks. In about 80 percent of its cases, foster care is avoided.
Each ''homebuilder'' works with only two families at a time; other programs often assign 15 cases to a worker. On call 24 hours a day, the homebuilders usually spend about 20 hours a week in a household, diagnosing its problems and helping the family members get day care or other services they need. The workers also teach everything from housekeeping skills to methods for dealing with discipline.
 
A Need to Address Troubles and Drugs
While more community centers and support services for families might help, some experts say these changes alone would not address the problems of many children.
In the last few years the foster-care system has been taking in a growing number of children with acute medical problems and emotional and developmental difficulties. A greater percentage of the children are entering the system as babies, and many have parents so devastated by crack addiction or AIDS that they may never be able to provide homes for them.
There are not enough institutions or trained foster parents to care for these children. Many of the neediest children end up shuttling from home to home because foster parents quickly become overwhelmed by them.
''We have to start planning not only for the volume of kids, but for the kinds of beds we need,'' said Fred Brancato, head of the Council of Family and Child Caring Agencies, composed of the city's private foster-care agencies.
In addition, some experts say, the system needs to decide how to handle children of drug addicts. The city's child welfare laws seek the reunification of a family whenever possible. But because little is known about whether a mother who is heavily addicted to crack can be rehabilitated, is that the right approach? And how long should a child be made to wait for a mother to be rehabilititated?
''In many cases,'' said Andrew Stein, the City Council President, ''you need some much quicker decisions. Sure, the mother should have a chance, but long waits may not be fair to the kids.''
Many specialists favor the creation of more drug-treatment centers for mothers. But others also suggest that those who give birth to drug-addicted babies should face jail terms.
''I'm not sure it would work,'' said Judge Judith B. Sheindlin of Family Court, ''but I think it would send out a very strong message. And there would be some sanction, other than not having your child live with you, for this kind of behavior.''
Some H.R.A. officials, however, scoff at this idea, noting that drug-addicted mothers may be afraid to seek medical help for themselves or their children.
 
Housing Problems And Staff Turnover
Many children - 1,000 or more last year, according to surveys - go into foster care or stay there simply because their families lack housing. Many experts say rent subsidies or other housing aid should be used to send these children home.
New York's Chief Judge, Sol Wachtler, recently urged such a measure, saying that a Family Court judge ought to be allowed to order rent subsidies equal to a set percentage of the cost of keeping a child in foster care.
A rent subsidy of up to $300 a month is now available to families whose children remain in foster care solely because the parents have inadequate housing. But more than a year after the subsidy program was approved by the State Legislature, many advocates say this promising program has foundered because few people know about it, and those who do must contend with burdensome paperwork. So far just 33 families have received the aid.
Another problem throughout the system, many experts say, is an undertrained and inexperienced work force.
In the last few years, the city and the private foster-care agencies have had to hire thousands of workers because of both an increasing need and a huge turnover in personnel. In many parts of the system, more than half the workers quit each year.
Often this means that supervisors have barely a year or two of experience and troubled families must deal with a constant parade of new caseworkers. It also means that the system may be making many mistakes because the workers are unseasoned.
Suggestions for correcting this problem include increasing certain salaries and creating career incentives, like tuition aid, for those who stay in the field and want to pursue advanced studies.
To accomplish the vast changes that they say are necessary, many experts also see a need for a more powerful advocate for children's issues at City Hall - or perhaps completely outside City Hall. Some like the idea of a deputy mayor for children's issues or the creation of a child welfare agency separate from the H.R.A. Still others would have an independent agency headed by a board of governors, an arrangement that would help insulate it from administration politics.
''There's no single, simple solution,'' said Kathryn Conroy, the assistant general director of the Comunity ServSociety. ''There are all kinds of ingredients out there being talked about, and they don't necessarily make a nice, neat cake.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; CHILD CARE; FOSTER CARE; CHILD ABUSE CHILD WELFARE (92%); FOSTER CARE (91%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); CHILD ABUSE (89%); APPOINTMENTS (88%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); FAMILY LAW (78%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); HUMAN RESOURCES (76%); FAMILY COURTS (73%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); JUDGES (66%); MAYORS (65%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (62%); 

PERSON: DALEY, SUZANNE



521 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 9, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Man in the News;
A Chief Known for Turning Strife Into Calm; Lee Patrick Brown

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Dec. 18

 BODY:
Lee P. Brown has made a career of taking over strife-torn police departments in racially troubled cities and bringing a relative sense of calm.
He does so with a personal style that is cool - some say cold - earning him the nicknames ''the Iceman'' and ''the Sphinx.''
He is a maestro of bureaucracy, believing that almost any problem can be solved with the right amount of organization and planning.
When he became Public Safety Commissioner in Atlanta in 1978, the Police Department was mired in a series of anti-discrimination suits and a scandal over cheating on promotional examinations. And when he became the Houston Police Chief in 1982, police officers were being charged with murdering prisoners and harassing black citizens. 
 
National Praise
But by the time he left Atlanta -and as he prepares to leave Houston - the police departments had received national praise and many begged him to stay.
Now he will see if his approach will work at the New York City Police Department. ''I take with me a process,'' he said today, referring to his management method. ''When I get there I will apply that process.''
His cerebral style is a reflection of the time he has spent in classrooms and managers' offices, rather than walking a beat. By the time he was interviewed to be Houston's police chief, his resume was 31 pages long.
Lee Patrick Brown, was born on Oct. 4, 1937, in Wewoka, Okla. He received a bachelor's degree in criminology from California State University at Fresno. After eight years as a patrolman in San Jose, he returned to school and earned a master's degree and a doctorate in criminology from the University of California at Berkeley and a master's degree in sociology from San Jose State University.
In 1968, he founded the Criminal Justice Program at Portland State University in Oregon, and in 1972 joined the faculty of Howard University in Washington as associate director of the Institute of Urban Affairs and Research.
Mr. Brown and his wife, Arlene, have two children.
His reputation as unruffled was reinforced in Atlanta, where, as Public Safety Commissioner, he was responsible for not only the Police and Fire Departments but also the Departments of Correctional Services, Emergency Management Services and Taxis and Limousines.
He promoted scores of minority officers and thereby resolved a series of anti-discrimination suits that had stalled the promotion process. He established what was to become his trademark - a neighborhood approach to law enforcement, with substations throughout the city.
Most notable, Chief Brown oversaw the two-year investigation into the murdering of 29 children in Atlanta, which ended shortly before he left the job in 1982 with the conviction of Wayne Williams.
Throughout the investigation he arrived at work at 6 A.M. and left at midnight, for which he received high praise. He also provided few details to the public and issued an order prohibiting police and fire officials from speaking about department activities. Critics said his close-to-the-chest style created mounting anxiety.
 
First Outsider in Job
The Rev. Joseph Lowery, president of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, said at the time: ''A few of us wanted him to kick over a chair, or use a few bad words, like a Kojak, and say he was going to get to the bottom of the case. But he kept his cool and did his job.''
When Chief Brown joined the Houston Police Department, he was the first outsider in that job in 40 years. The tradition of promoting from within ran so deep that his nomination was delayed until City Hall could debunk the generally accepted belief that it was against the law to appoint a police chief who had not served on the force.
He was also the first black police chief on a force whose black members accounted for 8 percent of the department, and his appointment was met by racial jokes from his officers. His first days brought a taste of the chaos typical of the department then. The week before he was hired, seven officers were dismissed and six were suspended for terrorizing and beating black residents at a local hotel.
Though he arrived to doubts, he has stayed to praise from most sectors of the community. He increased the percentage of black officers to 14.1 percent from 8.5 percent, and has dramatically improved the image of the Police Department.
He still faces some animosity from beat officers, however. The oil-bust economy of the last six years has meant virtually no salary increase for officers. With no money for new staff, the force is now 1,000 officers short of the number recommended by a recent internal report.
''He is not a savior,'' said Mark Clark, president of the Houston Police Officers Association. ''He is a successful black man with a number of degrees. He is more interested in posturing for his own benefit than thinking of the men and women who are out on the streets.''
Some of the harshest criticism he has faced in years has come while he was being considered for Police Commissioner in New York. The last two months have brought a spurt of unfavorable news involving Houston police officers.
 
Attributed to Bad Luck
In that time, two officers have shot and killed motorists after stops made for suspected traffic violations; two other officers were found guilty in rape cases; one officer was arrested for heroin possession; one was reassigned amid charges of police harassment, and two officers' houses were searched as part of a drug investigation.
This morning, Chief Brown described those events as ''abnormal'' and attributed them to bad luck, not bad management. For the most part, Houston leaders seem to agree.
''Even though some undesirable things have happened recently, there is no question Brown really turned around this department,'' said State Representative Al Edwards.
Mayor Kathryn J. Whitmire said: ''This will be a blow to the city. We would have liked to have him stay.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 21, 1989, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
A Man in the News article on Tuesday about Lee P. Brown, the newly designated Police Commissioner of New York City, misidentified his wife and misstated the size of his family.
 
His wife's name is Yvonne, not
Elayne; they have four children, not two.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HOUSTON (TEX); NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POLICE POLICE FORCES (94%); RACE & RACISM (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (86%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (74%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (74%); MURDER (74%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SCANDALS (70%); PRISONS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); SOCIOLOGY (62%); 

PERSON: BELKIN, LISA; BROWN, LEE P (POLICE CHIEF); DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES)



522 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 5; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: New System Warns of Volcano Dust, but a Plane Still Flies Into Trouble

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
A NEW satellite system to warn aircraft of dangerous plumes of volcanic dust got its first test last week, with dismal results.
Although the new system spotted dust from Redoubt Volcano in Alaska, and the Federal Aviation Administration issued warnings about it, a KLM Boeing 747 carrying 231 passengers and a crew of 14 flew through it Friday night. All four of its engines suddenly went dead, and the jet fell from 25,000 feet to 12,000 feet in eight minutes. The crew was finally able to restart the engines and the plane, traveling from Amsterdam to Tokyo, limped to a safe landing in Anchorage. 
This is just the kind of accident the system was designed to prevent.
It relies on an elaborate, worldwide system of satellite and human observers to spot plumes of volcanic ash, which are often invisible to radar. The program focuses on the heavily traveled international air routes near active volcanoes, like those in the Alaska-Aleutian chain. But after last week's alarming events, F.A.A. officials say it may take more than elaborate equipment to make the system effective.
The system was devised after several near catastrophes in which jet engines failed after ingesting and melting volcanic dust.
The F.A.A. used the new system soon after the first eruption of Redoubt Volcano on Thursday. So far, the agency has issued 14 bulletins about the volcanic cloud, its direction of movement and its expected path. Paul Steucke, a spokesman for the F.A.A. in Anchorage, said the agency knew of four airlines, Alaska, Markair, United and Delta, that had halted most operations into Anchorage as a result of the warnings.
But he added that it was up to individual airlines to decide what to do about the alerts. Mr. Steucke said the KLM airliner's captain had acknowledged receiving the dust alert, but it could not be learned what action, if any, the pilot took as a result.
''I don't know what more we could have done,'' said Nicholas P. Krull, who heads the F.A.A. effort. ''But if we find a way to improve the system, we'll do it.''
KLM Royal Dutch Airlines would make no comment on the incident, which is being investigated by the National Transportation Safety Board.
Such episodes worry not only civilian specialists but also American military planners, who fear dust from a nuclear war might cripple long-range bombers and airborne command posts. For several years, the military has investigated the nuclear dust threat, throwing dirt and debris into roaring engines in ground tests of wear and tear.
Pentagon critics say the military's jets are becoming increasingly vulnerable to such threats as nuclear dust, especially advanced models like the B-1 bomber and the B-2, or Stealth, bomber.
Awareness of the problem first arose after the 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens in Washington. Its ash shut down several jet engines. In the worst episode, two of four engines on a military transport caught fire, forcing an emergency landing.
 
Malaysian Incidents Were Impetus
But it was back-to-back near tragedies on civil airliners that finally pushed the dust issue into prominence. On the night of June 23, 1982, a British Airways Boeing 747 carrying 240 passengers was flying from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to Perth, Australia. One by one, mysteriously, all its engines died. The plane fell an alarming four miles as cabin pressure was lost and oxygen masks dropped into the passenger cabin.
''We have a small problem,'' the captain said over the plane's public address system. ''All of our engines have stopped.''
Eventually, three of the jet's four engines were restarted in time to make an emergency landing at Jakarta. It was later found that the jet had encountered ash from Galunggung Volcano in western Java, some 100 miles away.
Three weeks later, a Singapore Airlines 747 jet with 230 passengers also ran into ash from Galunggung, falling a mile and a half with engines ablaze before leveling off in time for an emergency landing.
After the incidents, the International Civil Aviation Organization asked its members to study ways to prevent the problem, while engine makers, including Pratt & Whitney and Rolls Royce, carefully dissected stricken engines. Examination showed that the 1,800-degree heat in the combustion chamber had melted particles from Galunggung's ash cloud, building up a glassy coating on the relatively cool aft turbine that choked air flow and caused engines to flame out.
 
Avoiding Dust Was Difficult
Developing ways to avoid dust was far from easy, experts said. It turned out that radar on planes could not usually identify ash clouds, and that using meteorological observations to predict cloud movements was next to impossible.
After much research, the solution adopted by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the F.A.A. was to rely on satellite photographs of the Earth to try to track volcanic plumes. The service, which went into operation this year, primarily uses N.O.A.A.'s four weather satellites, two in a fixed orbit 22,300 miles above the Equator and two in lower orbits.
Mike Matson, who heads N.O.A.A.'s dust effort, stressed that the focus was on monitoring known eruptions, rather than looking for new ones.
''We cannot unambiguously distinguish ash clouds from meteorological clouds,'' he said. ''They both look white. The only way to distinguish is to have somebody tell us, 'Hey, there's a volcano happening,' and then go look at it. Within a half hour to an hour, we can say, 'Yeah, this is definitely a volcano,' and start to track it.''
To initially locate eruptions, the service relies on reports from American military bases, research stations operated around the world by the United States Geological Survey, and the worldwide Scientific Event Alert Network operated by the Smithsonian Institution in Washington.
 
Advisories Every 2 Hours
During an eruption, F.A.A. advisories on plume movement are made every two hours, providing pilots with forecasts of how high and far the dust cloud is expected to move over the next 4 and 12 hours.
Nicholas P. Krull of the F.A.A. said the new satellite system should help airline economics, as well as save lives.
''In October of last year, we closed down two of the most heavily traveled air routes between Japan and the U.S. because of a report of a volcanic dust cloud,'' Mr. Krull said. ''Flights were diverted or held overnight. The airlines had some rather unhappy passengers in Alaska that had planned on nonstop flights.''
''With more data,'' he noted, ''you could make informed judgments about the hazard and its location so we don't have to close down a large area of airspace if it's not necessary.''
He also noted the system's limitations. For instance, a volcanic cloud cannot be tracked at night, or if it is obscured by heavy rain clouds. The eruption of Redoubt Volcano in Alaska was the first test of the new system, and Mr. Krull said it worked fairly well given its limited abiliites.

GRAPHIC: Diagram (pg. C1); satellite photo of a volcano (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration) (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (90%); BAB (BRU) (90%); BA (NYSE) (90%); AF (PAR) (58%); AF (AMS) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (94%); 

CITY: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (90%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (58%); NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIRLINES; FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (FAA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ALASKA; REDOUBT VOLCANO

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; VOLCANOES; ASH; ENGINES; 747 AIRPLANE; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; RADAR AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (92%); CIVIL AVIATION (92%); AIRLINES (91%); VOLCANIC ASH CLOUDS (90%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (78%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (64%); 

PERSON: BROAD, WILLIAM J



523 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: What's Under the Tree? Clues to a Relationship

BYLINE: By DANIEL GOLEMAN

 BODY:
WHAT'S in a gift? Telling clues to the relationship of the giver and receiver, social scientists say.
Gifts, of course, can be simple tokens of affection and caring. But the holiday gift list can also be read as a social and emotional inventory, researchers say. In the careful calculations that go into deciding just what to get for whom, people in effect summarize their relationships. There are clues about the interpersonal balance of power, as well as about what to expect in the near future from the relationship.
''There's an unstated rule in society that says you don't take unless you give in return,'' said Dr. Robert Cialdini, a social psychologist at Arizona State University. ''That leads to a strong sense of social obligation if you get much more than you give. With holiday gifts, for instance, people want to find that what they've given to people equates in value or thoughfulness to what they got.'' 
Dr. Cialdini points to a well-known study showing that something as minor as a Christmas card can provoke feelings of social obligation. For the 1976 study, Dr. Phillip Kunz, a sociologist at Brigham Young University, sent Christmas cards to 189 strangers.
When he sent a low-quality card, signed ''Mr. Kunz,'' 10 percent of the people sent him a return card. But when he sent a better card and changed the signature to ''Dr.'' Kunz, 37 percent responded.
''The sense of indebtedness induced in people by getting and not giving in return is an unpleasant tension, a sense that there is something wrong that needs to be made right,'' Dr. Cialdini said. ''It's that sinking feeling you get: 'Oh gee, they gave us a much bigger gift than we sent them.' ''
''It's tied to what we're taught as children, that people who take and don't give in return are moochers or ingrates,'' Dr. Cialdini added.
Social scientists use the term ''exchange theory'' to refer to the web of social obligations of which gift giving is a part. The theory, proposed in the 1950's by George Homans, a sociologist at Harvard University, holds that the rule that gifts must be reciprocated in some way reinforces essential social bonds and alliances. The theory allows that not all gifts need be returned in kind; a favor, for instance, can be given in return for a gift.
There have been just a handful of direct studies on gift giving since the seminal essay on the topic was written by the French sociologist Marcel Mauss in 1925. ''In theory, gifts are voluntary,'' he wrote. ''In fact, they are given and repaid under obligation. People who give desire something in return. People who receive want to give something in return. Both are involved in the quest for reciprocity.''
The relative size of gifts people give to each other implies a statement about who is more powerful in the relationship, social scientists say. Peers give gifts of approximately equal value, while those who are more powerful give a gift of far greater value than they are likely to receive.
The equation between the value of a gift and power is obvious, for example, in the gifts parents give their children. But research by anthropologists and sociologists shows this to be one of the universal symbolic meanings of gifts, whether between Trobiand Islanders or between a doorman and a building resident giving a holiday tip.
 
'Between Vassals and Chiefs'
''Between vassals and chiefs, between vassals and their henchmen, the hierarchy is established by means of gifts,'' Marcel Mauss wrote. ''To give is to show one's superiority, to show that one is something more and higher. To accept without returning is to face subordination, to become a client and subservient.''
In the most recent study on the topic, researchers asked people how satisfied they were with gifts they had received over the last year. One line of questioning involved gifts from people who were not close to the respondents, like business associates. The people who got back a gift of equivalent value to one they had sent said they were satisfied. But they were uncomfortable if they received either a gift of much less or much greater value than one they had given.
The research is by Dr. Margaret Clark, a psychologist at Carnegie-Mellon University, and Judson Mills, a psychologist at the University of Maryland. A report on it was published in the December issue of The Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin.
''The unhappiness for those who got more than they gave is because they now feel obligated; they owe the gift-giver something more,'' Dr. Cialdini said. ''Those who got back a gift of much less value were unhappy for another reason: they were miffed becasue the gift indicated they were undervalued.''
But within a family, different rules applied, the study found. People said they did not keep track of the size of gifts they were given by their family or close friends.
''In families, something else is involved in a gift exchange,'' Dr. Cialdini said. ''It's not the value that is most critical to people, but the fact of the gift itself. The gift states implicitly, 'You're someone I value, and I'll be there to give you what you need.' ''
The same effect in which gifts in the family are weighed differently than those to associates has been found in other cultures, including Sweden and Japan, in research conducted by Dr. Kenneth Gergen, a psychologist at Swarthmore College.
On the other hand, some social scientists point out that even within families, gifts are evaluated to some degree as a signal of what the relationship means to the giver. Part of the tension of holiday gift shopping comes from the recognition of this fact, which makes for a certain social risk in giving gifts, said Dr. David Cheal, a sociologist at the University of Winnipeg in Manitoba, Canada.
 
More Gifts for Women
On the basis of studies he has conducted in Canada, Dr. Cheal finds that most gifts from both women and men are for women. Also, women give more gifts. Dr. Cheal said the primary reason for this is that women traditionally take responsibility for maintaining family and social ties, and gifts are a major way to affirm such ties.
Another study indicated that gifts are a signal of a person's estimate of how important that relationship will be in the future. The study was conducted by Dr. Colin Camerer, a sociologist at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, and was published last year in The American Journal of Sociology. In his view, the investment in the gift symbolizes the future investments the person intends in that relationship.
Evidence supporting this theory comes from a study by Dr. Theodore Caplow, a sociologist at the University of Virginia. Dr. Caplow interviewed 110 men and women in Muncie, Ind., about the Christmas presents they had given. He found that when people did not give a gift to somene who had been on their list before, it meant that they expected the relationship to wane in importance or end over the coming year.
Some sociologists believe that the exchange theory even has an economic impact. They say that one reason that holiday spending has grown over the last two decades is that people increasingly rely on gifts to shore up family and friendship ties. As rising divorce rates and increased mobility have weakened social and family ties, gifts have taken on a new importance, these sociologists say.
But some social scientists say the tendency to give increasingly expensive gifts to counter flagging emotional ties has backfired, as people realize that gifts are no substitute for emotional closeness.
''Many people feel that gift-giving has gotten out of hand,'' said Ivan Karp, an anthropologist at the National Museum of Natural History of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington. ''They feel that measuring emotions by how much they spend is a false standard which, coupled with the customary obigation to give, leaves them feeling caught up in a system of gift-giving which is out of their control.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (55%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (55%); BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (55%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS; CHRISTMAS GIFTS; SOCIOLOGY; RESEARCH HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); 

PERSON: GOLEMAN, DANIEL



524 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1461 words

HEADLINE: In Poland, a Small Capitalist Miracle

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOMASZOW MAZOWIECKI, Poland

 BODY:
This sooty industrial town, surrounded by potato patches and hog farms, might be the last place in the world one would expect to find a venture capitalist. But Jan Bednarek, a 51-year-old engineer who heads a state-owned synthetic fiber company here, has given life to 18 start-up companies by forcing his way through the narrow openings the Communist system has traditionally left for entrepreneurs.
In the dreary universe that is Poland's economy, Mr. Bednarek is one of the few stars, having used some profits from his antiquated textile factory as seed money to establish, just to mention a few, lighting-fixture and furniture-making companies, a trucking concern, and industrial ceramics and factory automation companies. 
 
A Key to the Future
As many Eastern European countries seek to divorce themselves from Communism, resourceful, far-sighted managers like Mr. Bednarak may well make the difference on whether and how fast their economies improve. In a part of the world desperately short of ventures and capital, Mr. Bednarek is showing how to combine an old company's earnings with some new imagination to build an investment engine that can help transform his nation's ailing economy. [Indeed, it is Mr. Bednarek's brand of entrepreneurial flair that the Solidarity-led Government is hoping to stimulate with a sweeping legislative program of economic reform, introduced on Sunday, that would trim the state budget deficit, cut off most subsidies to Government-owned businesses and free prices.] ''The Polish system has been eating up people who have tried to build something,'' Mr. Bednarek said, complaining about the straitjacket that centralized planning has placed on Poland's economy. ''We're trying to change that.''
While Mr. Bednarek's venture capital efforts might seem like small potatoes in Silicon Valley, they seem like a small miracle in Poland. Notwithstanding such obstacles as antagonistic Communist bureaucrats, 500 percent inflation and telephones that do not work, he has reshaped, almost singlehandedly, the economy of this town of 70,000 people, 60 miles southwest of Warsaw.
''You have to be crazy to try to do something like this in a traditional so-called Socialist economy,'' said Andrzej Kozminski, president of the International Business School in Warsaw. ''He is the pioneer of this, and now some other people are beginning to follow him.''
Wistom, a textile company of which Mr. Bednarek is general manager, places notices in newspapers, telling people that if they have an original idea they should get in touch with him and he might help them start a business. Instead of laying off people from his hugely overstaffed factory, he pushes them to pursue a good idea and start a business, aided by the start-up money he pledges to them.
 
'Creating Possibilities'
''If the idea is good, they can make a lot of money,'' he said. ''I am trying to give them independence. I am creating possibilities.''
His enterprising attitude is the opposite of that of most Eastern European managers, who when told by central planners to make bolts, spend their lives making bolts, without ever daring to make nuts, not to mention furniture or ceramics.
Mr. Bednarek, in a blue pinstripe suit, and with a thick mustache and bushy red-brown eyebrows, looks like a Scottish businessman. But he does not have billions, or even millions, of dollars to spread around. In a nation where the average weekly wage is $15 at current exchange rates, he sprinkles $10,000 here, $50,000 there, and that is enough to get a good-sized company off the ground.
This fall he underwrote a company that makes lighting fixtures. Eager to reduce Wistom's bloated work force, Mr. Bednarek suggested to Leszek Jozefowski, a 26-year-old assistant manager, that he set up a company to design and produce improved lighting fixtures for the grim, poorly lit Wistom factory. Mr. Bednarek urged him to take several dozen employees with him.
 
'It's Not Easy'
''When we really get going, we hope that just 10 percent of our sales will be to Wistom,'' Mr. Jozefowski said. ''It's not easy to start a company it Poland. It helps to have the support of the general manager.''
Mr. Bednarek's most successful start-up may be a company specializing in factory automation and industrial processing equipment. The year-old concern has 125 employees, half of them from Wistom. Half of its orders come from outside Wistom as it helps companies throughout Poland upgrade their plants.
Wieslaw Pawlowski, a 29-year-old Bednarek assistant who heads that company, said it was easier to win the boss's backing than that of Wistom's workers. ''It was hard to persuade workers to try this with us and join a new company that did not assure them all the security and conveniences of a big company,'' Mr. Pawlowski said.
He said those workers who left Wistom were now happy they took the risk, since the new company was thriving and they could often earn 50 percent more than their pay at Wistom. Mr. Bednarek complained that he could not raise Wistom's wages as much as he would like because of Government-imposed wage controls.
 
A Polluting Factory
In his unpretentious office in Wistom's aging headquarters, Mr. Bednarek is quick to outline his vision. He wants to transform his company from a colorless caterpillar into a brilliant butterfly.
Wistom's main factory dates from 1911, when the company was founded. The smokestacks that dominate the town foul the sky as Wistom churns out 120 tons a day of cellulosic fiber used in suit linings.
''This might be the oldest synthetic fiber plant still in use,'' said Douglas Kay, a retired American chemistry industry official working as a volunteer consultant for Wistom.
Mr. Bednarek looks to the day when he has created so many start-ups that he can shut his polluting factory without the area suffering a drop in profits or employment. Wistom, one of Poland's largest companies, earned $13.5 million on sales of $50 million last year.
''We want to change from a company that is hurting the environment, to one that is not harmful,'' he said.
His proudest possession is a blueprint of a glass-sheathed ''high-technology center,'' to be built on pillars. He dreams of building it next to the factory.
 
Hour-Long Coffee Breaks
But there is more to his vision. Mr. Bednarek also wants to create an efficient company - and nation. Wistom has 5,000 employees, but he says it needs only 2,000. A stroll through the factory finds workers taking hour-long coffee breaks and others chatting idly behind doors next to the rusting jumble of machinery.
''It's an apple tree with too many branches and not enough fruit,'' he said about his company. ''Too much strength goes to the branches, and not enough to the fruit.'' He wants to prune the unnecessary branches. ''In the United States, these people would simply be dismissed, but I prefer a more humane approach.''
Thus he strains to place them in start-up companies, which now employ almost 500 people.
''Most other managers don't want to take risks,'' said Mr. Pawlowski, who heads the factory automation venture. ''They worry that if they make a mistake they'll be removed by the Government or by worker pressure.''
 
Early Profits
Mr. Bednarek discounts complaints about the new ventures, saying Wistom is making a solid return on its investment in them. In the factory automation venture, Wistom invested about $30,000 and gained majority control. Employees hold one-fourth of the shares.
Mr. Pawlowski said his company, housed in an unused wing of the fiber factory, already had $70,000 in monthly revenues and more than $20,000 a month in profits. He said he was eager for the factory automation employees to buy out most of Wistom's stake in the company.
In another project, Wistom is working with professors at Poland's Academy of Sciences to establish a company that will make superhard ceramics to be used in turbines, engines and military tanks. Wistom will own 30 percent, the professors 40 percent, and employees most of the rest, Mr. Bednarek said.
''Mr. Bednarek is the godfather of everything,'' Mr. Pawlowski said. Through force of will and by using one of the few sources of capital in Poland - the profits of a state-owned company - he has turned this town into a diversified industrial showcase for Poland.
 
Difficult Conditions
Mr. Bednarek has worked his successes in conditions that might drive Western executives into early retirement. The phone system is so bad that on many days it is impossible to reach Warsaw. Raw materials are often obtained only through a bureacratic struggle. ''We don't buy raw materials,'' he said. ''We conquer them.'' And his annual salary is $3,000 at the official exchange rate.

GRAPHIC: Jan Bednarek, shown in the fiber spinning room of the state-owned synthetic fiber company he heads, has taken advantage of loopholes in Poland's Communist system to give life to 18 start-up companies. The 51-year-old venture capitalist is one of the few stars in the Polish economy. (NYT/Aleksander Wiechowski)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: POLAND (97%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CAPITAL INVESTMENT ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TEXTILE MFG (89%); STARTUPS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); HOG & PIG FARMING (78%); TEXTILES (77%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); TEXTILE MILLS (75%); FABRIC MILLS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (73%); TRENDS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; BEDNAREK, JAN



525 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Community And Soviets In First Pact

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Dec. 18

 BODY:
The Soviet Union and the European Community today signed a commercial accord that calls for ending most European Community quotas on Soviet products.
The 10-year agreement also provides for cooperation in numerous areas, including food processing, tourism, banking, insurance, oil and gas, and nuclear energy. At the signing ceremony here, Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze of the Soviet Union, said the agreement ''brings the construction of the economic foundation for a common European house one step higher.''
He said the accord should be viewed as a first step toward closer economic and political relations between Moscow and the community. 
 
'Support for the Soviet Policy'
Frans Andriessen, a vice president of the European Commission and its Minister for External Relations, commented, ''The agreement is a clear demonstration of the community's support for the Soviet policy of economic reforms and greater openness to the world economy.''
He said one of the community's aims in signing the accord was to help achieve ''far-reaching market-oriented economic reform in the U.S.S.R.''
The trade pact comes after the community signed similar but less wide-ranging accords with Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Poland. Community officials say they are negotiating with East Germany and Bulgaria.
 
Two-Day Good-Will Tour
Mr. Shevardnadze signed the agreement during a two-day good-will tour of Brussels, where he met King Baudouin, Prime Minister Wilfried Martens and Jacques Delors, president of the European Commission, the community's executive branch. He dined tonight with the Foreign Ministers of the 12 community nations.
On Tuesday, Mr. Shevardnadze is scheduled to meet with the Secretary General of NATO, Manfred Worner of West Germany, in what will be the first visit to NATO headquarters by a Warsaw Pact minister.
Mr. Shevardnadze's overtures to the European Community come a few days after Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d called for greater cooperation between Washington and the community to strengthen American relations with Western Europe.
At a half-hour news conference today, Mr. Shevardnadze did not comment upon Mr. Baker's ideas. But several European officials said they expected Mr. Baker's proposals to be discussed at the dinner with the Soviet Foreign Minister.
European Community officials seemed as excited by today's agreement as Mr. Shevardnadze.
''This agreement opens up the future hope for improvement in economic and political relations,'' said Foreign Minister Roland Dumas of France. Since France holds the community's six-month rotating presidency, Mr. Dumas is acting as one of the community's top foreign-relations officials.
 
Cocom Is Criticized
But Mr. Shevardnadze, in urging closer economic ties with Western Europe, repeatedly criticized the Coordinating Committee on Multilateral Export Controls, or Cocom, the organization that has long set policies restricting exports of high-technology goods to the Soviet bloc.
''Cocom's position has to be softened,'' he said. ''That's only a first step. I think I would liquidate it if I could.''
His criticism of Cocom comes at a time when many European officials, most recently Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher, have called for liberalizing Cocom rules. On Saturday, Bush Administration officials said the export agency was close to a significant relaxation of rules on high-technology sales to the Eastern bloc.
Under the agreement signed today, the European Community will remove quotas on Soviet manufactured products in three stages by 1995. But restrictions will remain on Soviet farm goods because the community produces a surplus.
The agreement calls for allowing European corporations to negotiate contracts directly with Soviet business leaders. In the accord, Moscow, seeking to reassure investors, agreed to guarantee that Western companies be allowed to send their profits and dividends back home.
Mr. Shevardnadze said the pact ''has an imporant political and, I would say, conceptual aspect, being a large-scale European blueprint for the future.'' For him, that blueprint is the ''gradual formation of an integral economic complex on our continent,'' which he said was a long-term goal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); BELGIUM (92%); GERMANY (92%); HUNGARY (79%); POLAND (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BULGARIA (74%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (56%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; QUOTAS EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); EXPORT CONTROLS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN WILFRIED MARTENS (54%); JACQUES LUCIEN JEAN DELORS (54%); 



526 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
International
Moscow and the European Community signed a commercial accord that calls for ending most European Community quotas on Soviet products. The agreement provides for cooperation in numerous areas, including food processing, tourism, banking, insurance, oil and gas, and nuclear energy. [Page D1.] The European Community approved the last step needed to create a single banking license that will enable a bank based in any member nation to open as many branches as it wants in any member nation. [D17.] 
So divisive have trade issues become that a group of eminences assembled by the Twentieth Century Fund was unable to develop a consensus about how the United States should proceed. [D2.]
Index arbitrage has found a home in Tokyo, where Salomon Brothers and Morgan Stanley are using the trading strategy. [D5.]
 
 
 
Companies
American Airlines will buy the Latin American routes of Eastern Airlines for $350 million and pay Continental Airlines about $100 million to settle a suit over American's computerized airline reservations system, a person close to the negotiations said. [D1.]
Ford will match Chrysler's rebates on mini-vans, in what analysts said could be the opening round of a price war that could last into the spring. Ford also said it would extend the holiday shutdowns at most of its assembly plants. [D1.]
Marriott is getting out of the fast-food business in downtown areas and along the nation's byways. It will sell its Roy Rogers, Howard Johnson's, Bob's Big Boy and other chains to concentrate on captive audiences at airports and on turnpikes. [D1.]
Republic New York announced plans to enlarge its foothold in New York by acquiring the Manhattan Savings Bank. [D5.]
The family voting trust that dominates Campbell Soup will be disbanded. [D4.]
Inland Steel sold 185,000 shares of preferred stock to Nippon Steel of Japan for $185 million. [D4.]
Georgia-Pacific started soliciting shareholders of Great Northern Nekoosa to call a special meeting to consider replacing Great Northern's board. [D4.]
 
 
 
Markets
Salim B. (Sandy) Lewis was sentenced to three years of probation and fined $250,000 for helping to manipulate a stock price in 1986 in an action that benefited American Express. [D1.]
Stock prices were broadly lower, as the Dow Jones industrial average lost 42.02 points, to end at 2,697.53. [D6.]
Prices of Treasury securities moved higher in thin trading, aided by a sharp selloff in the stock market. [D13.]
Energy prices soared as unseasonably cold weather upset refinery and distribution programs for heating oil. [D14.] The dollar ended mixed in quiet, directionless trading. [D14.]
 
 
 
The Economy
Corporate boards are becoming smaller and at the same time are adding increasing numbers of outsiders, according to a study by SpencerStuart Executive Search Consultants. [D3.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
High quality does not necessarily mean higher costs, in health care as in manufacturing. Business and Health. [D2.]
Investors in two troubled real estate investment trusts are being asked by current management to reverse a liquidation process begun more than four years ago. Market Place. [D6.]
Resumes of creative people land with frequency at Margeotes Fertitta & Weiss. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D17.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%); UAL (NYSE) (56%); AXP (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%); NAICS332322 SHEET METAL WORK MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (53%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (53%); SIC2493 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (56%); RYERSON HOLDING CORP (53%); GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC (53%); MANHATTAN SAVINGS BANK (53%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (52%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); TWENTIETH CENTURY FUND (57%); TWENTIETH CENTURY FUND (57%); 

SUBJECT: No Index Terms AIRLINES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); FAST FOOD (77%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); HEATING OIL (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); PREFERRED STOCK (75%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); APPROVALS (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); PRICE CUTTING (66%); SENTENCING (60%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (60%); PROBATION (50%); 

PERSON: ROY ROGERS (54%); 



527 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Study on Trade Fails To Reach a Consensus

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 18

 BODY:
So divisive have trade issues become that a group of eminences assembled by the Twentieth Century Fund was unable to develop a consensus about how the United States should proceed.
As a result, the group published two separate reports instead of the consensus document it had hoped for when the late Murray J. Rossant had the idea for the study group two years ago.
The division is between those who favor free trade and those who opt for so-called managed trade, in which the Government would play a bigger role in trying to cut the trade deficit and shape industrial policy.
The split reflects divisions within the Bush Administration. In February the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy Negotiations, a business group advising the United States trade representative, Carla A. Hills, recommended a ''results-oriented'' trade strategy to cope with Japanese barriers. 
It called on the Administration to pick industrial sectors where American exports - based on their performance in other foreign markets -should have a bigger market share in Japan, and then undertake negotiations to achieve those shares.
The Twentieth Century Fund held a Washington news conference today to issue the two reports, which were published in a single 232-page volume called The Free Trade Debate.
 
'It's a Disappointment'
It was the first time in the history of the fund that its luminaries, normally drawn from academia, government, business and labor, have been so torn they could not reach consensus, said Beverly Goldberg, director of publications.
''It's a disappointment, but it reflects the deep divisons in the country,'' said Richard C. Leone, director of the New York-based organization. ''I think it's good for people to understand how difficult these issues are.''
Herbert Stein, one of the study group's members, commented: ''We could have agreed had we produced a wishy-washy document, but no one wanted to do that. ''Let's face it; there have been disagreements on this subject for 200 years.''
The organization is one of the oldest research centers, founded in 1919 by the department store owner, Edward A. Filene, to analyze economic, political and social policy issues. It publishes more than 20 volumes a year.
 
A Participant Is Chided
The arguments between the free traders and those contending that a new policy approach is needed, chiefly because of huge American trade imbalances, carried into the news conference itself.
Mr. Leone had invited some members of the study group to attend the conference and respond to reporters' questions. Discussions became so heated that Mr. Leone at one point gently chided one expert, Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr., formerly of the Commerce Department and now a senior associate at another research center, the Carnegie Endowment, for hogging the microphone.
Both Mr. Stein, former chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers and now a senior fellow at still another study center, the American Enterprise Institute, and Gary Clyde Hufbauer, professor at the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, both of the free trade faction, interrupted with some passion at other points.
In one intervention, during a long response by Mr. Prestowitz on failures of free trade, Mr. Stein, his face growing red with pique, snapped: ''Efforts of managed trade have been very costly to the consumer.''
He was apparently referring to so-called voluntary restraints in automobile trade and import quotas in sugar and textiles, among other products, that have raised domestic price levels.
 
Stein Sees an Irony
The study group of 11 members was led by Anne Krueger, professor of economics at Duke University and consultant to the World Bank. Of the 11, 6 favored free trade and 5 managed trade.
Speaking for the free traders, Mr. Stein said it had worked for 40 years to provide unparalleled prosperity in the world. He said it would be ironic now that Eastern European countries had chosen free-market domestic policies to have them participate in controlled international trade.
Mr. Prestowitz, leading the managed trade forces, said free trade orthodoxy was at odds with conditions in the real world, where markets are not open and where laissez-faire policies enable countries like Japan to pick off one American high-technology industry after the other.
''This side is not seeking protection, but we care about the composition of the U.S. economy,'' added Alan W. Wolff, former deputy United States trade representative who was allied with Mr. Prestowitz.
While some officials in the Commerce Department are sympathetic with this approach, Mrs. Hills and Michael J. Boskin, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, oppose any greater Government intervention in trade policy.
A copy of the trade study report can be obtained for $8.95 from the Twentieth Century Fund, 41 East 70th Street, New York City, N.Y. 10021.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TWENTIETH CENTURY FUND (93%); TWENTIETH CENTURY FUND (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: TWENTIETH CENTURY FUND

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H



528 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 13, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Rise in Slow Trading

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities moved higher in thin trading yesterday, aided by a sharp selloff in the stock market.
''Before stocks started to slide, we were doing absolutely nothing,'' one government bond trader said. ''But by and large we are closed for the year, whether the Fed eases policy or not.''
The slide in the stock market came as members of the Federal Reserve Board's policy-making Open Market Committee began two days of meetings in Washington. Some bond market participants said the two events were related. 
 
'Brink of Recession'
''This seems a pretty clear equity protest going into the F.O.M.C. meeting,'' said Victor Chang, president the of VC Management Company. ''Economic developments over the past few weeks have shown that the economy has moved to the brink of recession. This is one point in time when the stock market is saying that if you stay tight for too long you will have to pay for it.''
Although most analysts seem convinced that recent economic reports will once again lead the Fed to lower the overnight Federal funds rate by at least one-quarter of a percentage point, to 8.25 percent, the Fed gave no indication that any change would be forthcoming.
The central bank refrained from conducting open market operations, and the funds rate traded in a narrow range of 8 1/2 to 8 9/16 percent.
''I think the Fed will vote to ease policy at this meeting,'' said Michael J. Moran, chief economist at Daiwa Securities America Inc. ''The only question is when they will implement it. It could be they will wait until next week before they signal that they have eased.''
A delay beyond 1 P.M. today would probably come as a disappointment to traders, who will be placing bids on $10 billion worth of two-year notes this afternoon. 2-Year Notes at 7.64% The notes were offered on a when-issued basis late yesterday at a price to yield 7.64 percent. The four-year Treasury notes, which will be sold tomorrow, were offered in when-issued trading at a price to yield 7.67 percent.
As it does every week, the Treasury auctioned three- and six-month bills yesterday. The three-month bills were sold at an average discount rate of 7.62 percent, up slightly from 7.60 percent rate a week ago. Six-month bills were sold at an average rate of 7.43 percent, up from 7.41 percent at last week's auction.
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 8 1/8 percent bonds of 2019 were offered late yesterday at a price of 103 10/32, up 6/32, to yield 7.83 percent.
Among note issues, the 7 7/8 percent 10-year notes were offered at 100 3/4, up 5/32, to yield 7.76 percent. And the 7 3/4 percent five-year notes were offered at 100 10/32, up 1/8, to yield 7.66 percent.
 
'Junk Bonds' Under Pressure
In other developments, prices of high-yield ''junk bond'' issues were under some pressure yesterday, dealers said.
Prices of a number of issues declined by about half a point, and bids on securities issued by troubled retailing companies fell by about a point. But trading was very sparse.
''It's a very thin market, and unless there is an accident I expect it will stay that way through the end of the year, '' said Kate Montgomery, head of the high-yield research department at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
In the tax-exempt municipal bond market, Merrill Lynch Capital Markets acted as lead manager on a negotiated $255 million offering of water and electric bonds from the Orlando, Fla., Utilities Commission.
The issue consists of three term bonds. The largest, $112 million worth of bonds due in 2017, was priced to yield 6.85 percent.
The other term bonds mature in 2020 and 2023. Those bonds were priced to yield 6.92 percent and 6.90 percent, respectively The issue is rated AA by Moody's Investors Service and AA- by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
In the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds, dealers said that prices of most issues rose by about an eighth of a point in light trading.
In the secondary municipal bond market, participants said that prices of most issues rose by an eighth to a quarter of a point.

GRAPHIC: Chart of 3-Month Treasury Bills rates (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: DAIWA SECURITIES AMERICA INC (66%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; AUCTIONS; STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); INTEREST RATES (71%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



529 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 14, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Mixed and Gold Dips; Lower Rates Are Foreseen

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar ended mixed yesterday against primary foreign currencies in quiet, directionless trading. Gold prices declined.
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery settled at $411.80 an ounce, down $2.10 from Friday. The Republic National Bank in New York quoted a late bid for gold at $412.75 an ounce, off $1.75.
Currency dealers said market activity was light since many traders have started to close out their books for the calendar year.
But Earl I. Johnson, a trader with Harris Trust and Company in Chicago, said, ''The dollar is vulnerable on the downside,'' as evidence of a weaker economy continues to appear.
Some of the traders have turned their attention toward the Federal Reserve's policy-making Federal Open Market Committee, which began meeting yesterday for two days.
Economists maintain that the Fed is likely to decide to push interest rates lower because of softening economic growth, thereby lowering the value of the dollar.
''Interest rates should head down, while West German rates are firm,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''That's a prescription for a weaker dollar.''
In New York, the dollar ended at 143.725 yen, down from 144.15 yen on Friday. The pound rose to $1.60685 in New York, from $1.6030.
Other late-dollar rates in New York, compared with late Friday, included: 1.7210 West German marks, up from 1.7190; 1.5410 Swiss francs, down from 1.5480; 5.8800 French francs, up from 5.8785; 1,285.00 Italian lire, up from 1,283.50, and 1.16075 Canadian dollars, unchanged.
Silver prices also declined. On the Comex in New York, silver for current delivery closed at $5.565 an ounce, down from $5.607 Friday. Silver fell in London to $5.55 an ounce, from $5.62.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (94%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); MONETARY POLICY (74%); BRITISH POUND (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GERMAN MARK (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); 

PERSON: BEN NELSON (57%); 



530 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 16, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Careers;
Job Help For Laid-Off Employees

BYLINE: By Elizabeth M. Fowler

 BODY:
THANKS to downsizings and mergers, the outplacement industry is growing fast.
For a fee of about 20 percent of a dismissed person's annual salary, paid by his or her company, outplacement firms help the job seeker. Services usually include counseling to alleviate the trauma of losing a job and help in writing resumes. Office space and a telephone are also provided. 
Outplacement services, which used to be given mainly to top managers, are now offered to lower-level managers and, often on a group basis, to clerical and other workers.
The Association of Outplacement Consulting Firms said its members generated more than $350 million in revenues in 1989. The association's president, Louis LeHane, president of LeHane Consultants Inc. of Leesburg, Va., thinks revenues increased about 15 percent in 1989 and he expects a similar gain in 1990, more if there is a recession.
The firms are expanding nationally, as evidenced by the merger of J. J. Gallagher Associates of New York and King Chapman Broussard, a Texas-based firm, to form King Chapman Broussard & Gallagher Inc.
Mr. LeHane says well-established firms are also opening offices in smaller cities, where they compete with local firms. ''It means that the local firm must find a niche because it will be harder to stay alive with the competition,'' he said. ''Fees will tend to flatten.''
The niche might involve special services. Instead of idled employees receiving only a cubicle, they might get an office. ''Financial consulting might be offered as part of an outplacement package,'' Mr. LeHane said.
Outplacement has expanded abroad. The association, which began in 1982 with 13 firms, none of them foreign, and 115 consultants, now has 55 firms, including a total of 11 in Japan, Canada and in Europe, and more than 2,000 consultants.
The largest outplacement firm, Drake Beam Morin Inc., has 21 offices in 13 nations in Europe. Recently, James C. Cabrera, its president, said the firm's European business more than doubled in the last year, partly because of a growing number of mergers.
In 1983, he said, there were only 117 sizable mergers in Western Europe - a figure that rose to 450 in 1988, and probably increased again this year.
The industry has also been reaching into new areas. For example, Right Associates was hired to help top-level New York officials. Mayor Edward I. Koch found money to provide job guidance for 80 New York City commissioners and deputy commissioners, many of them long-term job holders. Right Associates said that in its 11-year history it had never ''provided assistance to members of a public administration.''
Frank P. Louchheim, Right's chairman, spoke last week of a new development - the organization of an outplacement group with individuals as members, aimed at increasing professionalism. So far members include officers of the Chemical Bank Corporation and Citicorp banks who handle outplacement within their organizations; some professors interested in the field, and a few consultants who work for association member firms.
''The association contributed $1,000 and we collected another wad of money at a recent meeting to seed the idea,'' Mr. Louchheim said, adding that the ''the group does not have a name yet.''
There has been a growing need for quality, ethical job advice for middle managers whose companies do not provide outplacement. Unfortunately, some so-called consulting companies that handle that type of ''retail'' business, for which individuals pay, have not offered much service in relation to the large fees charged. Several were forced out of business by state attorneys general.
With competition threatening profits in some cases, outplacement firms have become more creative to keep market share. For example, Lee Hecht Harrison Inc., a large firm that has expanded recently, sends out quarterly lists describing the talents and experience of its job candidates. The list goes to companies and others that might be hiring.
Pro bono advice has become another marketing tool. Chicago-based James Challenger of Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc. said last week that for the fourth year he will hold his annual career advice by telephone for anyone calling his Chicago office on Dec. 28 between 9 A.M. and 5 P.M., central standard time. Last year 2,500 calls were received, necessitating a second day.
The association offered a two-day hot line in the fall during which outplacement experts answered questions from almost 10,000 people. In January and June, Right Associates holds all-day meetings for college students to teach skills on obtaining a job.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CAREERS (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (64%); SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (90%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (73%); WESTERN EUROPE (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LEE HECHT HARRISON INC (64%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR) EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MERGERS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); DISMISSALS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (75%); 

PERSON: FOWLER, ELIZABETH M



531 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: PRESIDENT WAIVES SOME CHINA CURBS

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 19

 BODY:
President Bush waived a Congressional ban today on loans to companies that do business with China and also approved the export of three communications satellites that will be launched by the Chinese.
The ban on loans was imposed in a law passed in November as part of Congress's reaction to the Chinese Government's bloody nationwide crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators. Export of the satellites and equipment that could be used for military purposes was blocked by sanctions ordered by Mr. Bush himself in June, immediately after the crackdown.
The decisions, which the White House said were ''in the national interest,'' came as Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d was forced into an embarrassing admission that he ''may have misled'' the public about how many secret missions Mr. Bush had sent to Beijing. 
On Dec. 10, a day after the White House announced that two top officials had gone to Beijing this month in hopes of improving relations with China, Mr. Baker said in an ABC television interview that the trip had been the first by high-level officials to Beijing since Mr. Bush banned such contacts in the aftermath of the Chinese crackdown.
Mr. Baker never mentioned what the White House acknowledged on Monday - that Brent Scowcroft, the White House national security adviser, and Lawrence S. Eagleburger, the Deputy Secretary of State, had been in China in July, only weeks after the crushing of political dissent and the announcement of Mr. Bush's ban on high-level meetings.
Two of the three satellites affected by Mr. Bush's order today are being built by Hughes Aircraft for Aussat, an Australian concern that intends to launch them on the Chinese Long March rocket. The other satellite, which would be the first actually put into space, is a refurbished Westar satellite that will be used by Asiasat, a British-Chinese concern based in Hong Kong.
Export licenses for the satellites were suspended when Mr. Bush ordered a halt to the sale of all military equipment to China. The satellites are not for military use, but some of their components, and the devices themselves, were included on the list of proscribed items.
Today, Mr. Bush notified Congress that he was exempting the three satellites from the sanctions.
Noting that the satellites were worth $300 million in business for American firms, Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman, said the move was ''consistent with the President's expressed determination, in imposing sanctions last June, to maintain commercial relations with China.''
 
Rationale for Decision
In a two-page memo explaining the decision, the White House said the satellites ''will be controlled for civil use'' after they are launched.
''It is in the national interest of the United States to approve export licenses,'' the statement said.
The same reasoning was given today for Mr. Bush's decision to waive Congressionally imposed restrictions on the Export-Import Bank's power to grant loans to American companies that do business in China. The waiver ''preserves a level playing field for U.S. business,'' the White House said. ''Additional business activity with China will be considered on a case-by-case basis as part of a continuing review process.''
 
A Protest From Gore
Mr. Bush's decision on the satellites drew immediate criticism from Senator Albert Gore Jr., the Tennessee Democrat who sponsored a law that requires special licenses for the launching of American-made satellites on Chinese rockets.
''The statement that this is in the national interest simply does not hold water,'' Mr. Gore said in an interview. ''He's doing this as a favor to the hard-liners in Beijing. This is a fresh insult to the memory of those who died for democracy in Tiananmen Square.''
Mr. Baker's admission entangled him in the debate over the wisdom of Mr. Bush's attempts at personal diplomacy with the Chinese, something that Mr. Baker appeared to have been avoiding with careful public statements that expressed his support for the President's decisions but repeatedly made it clear that the China overture was ''the President's policy.''
State Department officials said today that Mr. Baker knew about the first trip, but chose not to disclose it during the television interview.
Margaret D. Tutwiler, Mr. Baker's spokeswoman, said the Secretary ''regrets that he may have misled some.'' She said Mr. Baker felt that ''by acknowledging his own direct involvement, it was sufficient to make the point that this was not the first case of high-level contact.''
Mr. Baker had said Dec. 10 on the ABC news program ''This Week'' that he had met with the Chinese Foreign Minister in Paris and at the United Nations in meetings that were widely known.
Miss Tutwiler said the Secretary had not intentionally lied. She defended Mr. Baker's actions by saying he felt obligated to withhold his knowledge of the earlier trip out of his friendship to Mr. Bush and a feeling that as Secretary of State he could not disclose a classified Presidential mission.
''Secretary Baker does not feel that he lied,'' she said. ''He certainly understands, as we stated, that his statement could have misled some.''
 
A Select Group
State Department officials said Mr. Baker was one of four people, including the President and his two emissaries, who were aware of two trips that were conceived and directed by the tighest possible group of aides, leaving out not only Congress and the State Department bureaucracy but most of Mr. Bush's own White House staff.
The White House disclosed the first trip, which was made in July, on Monday after a report about it on Cable News Network. That began a new round of criticism from some lawmakers and foreign policy analysts. In a sign of some opposition within the Administration itself, officials said today that Mr. Bush had authorized the trips to Beijing even though his Ambassador there, Joseph Lilly, was pessimistic about the possibility of a quick improvement in either China's human rights policies or in the Chinese-American relationship.
Although there was some criticism of the first trip to China by Mr. Eagleburger and Mr. Scowcroft, Mr. Bush won some praise for trying to keep alive a relationship that many experts view as critical to the United States.
But the White House's acknowledgment on Monday that the two officials had also visited Beijing in July prompted more widespread criticism.
Even Henry A. Kissinger, the former Secretary of State, who was strongly supportive of the December trip, was at a loss today to explain why Mr. Bush had sent his secret emissaries to China in July, so soon after the violence in Tiananmen Square and the President's own ban on high-level meetings with Chinese officials.
''I support the objectives of the second trip and I agree with the general analysis of the President on relations with China,'' Mr. Kissinger said. ''But on the first trip, I have neither the knowledge to know what they were trying to do, nor even a theory to explain it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (53%); 1135 (HKSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

COMPANY: DIRECTV (53%); ASIA SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS HOLDINGS LTD (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF

SUBJECT: SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; GOVERNMENT INFORMATION POLICIES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; COMMUNICATIONS SATELLITES US PRESIDENTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); APPROVALS (90%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); EXPORT CONTROLS (89%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (79%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); LEGISLATION (72%); LICENSES & PERMITS (66%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); ROSENTHAL, ANDREW GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 



532 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

 
International A3-18
 
In a military operation in Panama, U.S. troops were ordered into the streets in an effort to topple the Government of Gen. Manuel Antonio Noreiga, the White house announced. Page A1

 
Man in the news: The new President of Brazil, Fernando Collor de Mello, sold Brazilians on his free-market vision of a new Brazil with less government and more growth. A1

 
Sanctions against China were waived by President Bush, who lifted a ban imposed by Congress on loans to companies that do business with Beijing and approved the export of three satellites to China. A1

 
The leaders of the two Germanys met in Dresden for the first time since a tide of change swept the East. They agreed to reopen the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin and allow free movement for all Germans across their border. A1 
 
 
At a plant in East Berlin, men are of two minds
 A16

 
Rumania's crackdown on protesters was condemned as ''brutal'' by the White House, which also said it was considering teaming with Moscow and the Western allies to develop a coordinated response. A1

 
Visitors horrified at Rumanian protest scene
 A17

 
In Czechoslovakia, democracy and a free-market economic system were approved by the Communist-led Parliament. Vaclav Havel appears on the verge of becoming the first non-Communist President since 1948. A17

 
Military analysis: The Warsaw Pact has been transformed in a few short months from a military alliance feared by the West to a hollow organization with no clear purpose. A16

 
Mikhail Gorbachev's economic plan was ratified by the Soviet national congress, as his Government easily rebuffed a bold vote of no-confidence pushed by opponents who warned of a retreat from perestroika. A18

 
Fiber-optic links to the Soviet Union could be built with the help of an American company, the Commerce Secretary said, showing new flexibility in high-technology exports to the Eastern bloc. D1

 
Jews gathered in Moscow from all over the Soviet Union. Their quandary is how to help those who want to emigrate yet still protect the hopes of those who stay. A18

 
Shevardnadze, at NATO, calls for links in East-West pacts
 A18

 
Lithuanian Communist Party nears the brink
 A18

 
Arab and European chiefs will meet in Paris this week in the most ambitious effort yet to revive political and economic discussion between the Arab League and the European Community. A14

 
Beirut, unsure of future, embraces the holidays
 A13

 
Israeli oil purchase from Iran is disclosed, linked to captives
 A3

 
Britain's decision to return refugees in Hong Kong to Vietnam is causing alarm among Vietnamese boat people and refugee workers throughout Southeast Asia. A12

 
U.S. delegate calls U.N.'s session ''constructive'' A3

 
National A19-25, B6-7

 
Investigators have linked the bombs that killed a Federal court judge in Alabama and a civil rights lawyer in Georgia. Another bomb was found at the local headquarters of the N.A.A.C.P in Jacksonville, Fla. A1

 
Victim of bombing is called quiet but effective
 B6

 
The testimony of Oliver L. North cannot be used in the trial of John M. Poindexter for his role in the Iran-contra affair, a judge ruled. The decision is a setback for the Government's case against Mr. Poindexter. A19

 
The causes of the accidents last month that killed 10 Navy personnel include inadequate supervision, lax safety procedures and complacency, said Adm. Carlisle Trost. A20
 
Washington Talk: A peace dividend that will become available as military spending is reduced has Congressional committees rushing out of the gates a month before Congress reconvenes. A20

 
The risk of cancer from radiation at low levels appears to be four times as high as previously estimated, the National Research Council said. A22

 
Three die and dozens are hurt as train hits truck in fog A20

 
A Christmas party helps the forgotten recall joy
 A22

 
Nominee for energy post is accused of lying
 A23

 
Residents in Vermont decline to bail out an idled incinerator B7

 
Regional B1-5

 
Vulgarity is protected as free speech, New York State's highest court ruled, striking down a major provision of the state's harassment statute. A1

 
On a cold night on the city's streets, thousands of homeless people faced temperatures that fell to 16 degrees and makeshift beds on subway trains, heating grates or wherever they could find a warm spot. B1

 
Housing aides in Hartford ran a racket, developers' suit says
 B1

 
Eleven are indicted in Atlantic City influence peddling
 B2

 
New York's list of troubled schools includes one in Manhattan where the hallways are clean and most test scores are up. Officials say the state's list of 43 schools unfairly singles out those with urban problems. B1
 
Science contest accepts late entries from Stuyvesant High
 B3

 
Crews of four firefighters, not five, can be assigned to the pumper trucks of New York City's engine companies, saving at least $25 million a year, the Board of Collective Bargaining ruled. B1

 
A new head of the drug abuse agency was named. Arthur Webb, head of the Office of Mental Retardation, has a reputation as a trouble-shooter. He replaces Julio Martinez, who resigned after a highly critical report on the agency. B3

 
Child-welfare agency cited in Connecticut lawsuit
 B4

 
Koch bids farewell to the police B3

 
Neediest Cases B4

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (95%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); ROMANIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); HONG KONG (79%); VIET NAM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (77%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CO LLOID CO (53%); NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (62%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); REFUGEES (88%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); COUPS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POLITICS (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (61%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (55%); FIBER OPTICS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



533 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Israel-Iran Oil Deal Disclosed and Tied to Captives

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 19

 BODY:
Israel informed the United States a month ago that it had concluded a deal with Iran for the purchase of Iranian oil, the State Department said today.
NBC News disclosed the transaction Monday night, saying that Israel had paid Iran $36 million for the oil and that one purpose of the deal was to encourage Iran to use its influence to help free three Israeli soldiers being held in Lebanon.
Although Iran's leaders are avowedly anti-Israel, the deal would give the country's struggling economy badly needed foreign currency.
NBC said that in addition to winning Iran's help in seeking the release of Israelis, the oil purchases and a potential spare parts deal are intended to bolster Iran's position against a common enemy, Iraq. 
The State Department spokeswoman, Margaret D. Tutwiler, said the United States was notified of the deal after it was concluded. She would not say whether Washington approved of the Israeli action.
''Foreign countries do not seek U.S. approval for oil purchases from a third country,'' she said.
 
American Hostage Issue Raised
Asked whether Israel might negotiate with Iran on behalf of American hostages being held in Lebanon, Miss Tutwiler said that the question should be directed to Israel, adding that the United States will not make deals for hostages or reward terrorists.
The United States is backing the deal in hopes that it could lead to the release of American hostages held in Lebanon, NBC said.
NBC, citing American and Israeli intelligence officials, said Israeli representatives have discussed the possibility of selling Iran spare parts for its Western-made military hardware.
Spokesmen for Israel's Energy, Foreign and Defense Ministries today refused to comment on the report. The Defense Ministry also refused to allow reporters to talk to Uri Lubrani, mentioned in the NBC report as the man who dealt with the Iranians in Switzerland.
Mr. Lubrani is responsible for Israel's Lebanon policy and served as Ambassador to Iran before the revolution that swept Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini to power.
 
Israeli Rationale Offered
The shipment of two million barrels was delivered in November, NBC said.
With a world oil glut, Israel has no problem buying enough oil to meet its 170,000-barrel-a-day requirement.
Joseph Alpher of Tel Aviv University's Jaffee Center for Strategic Studies said Israel had other considerations that could justify ties with Iran, apart from seeking the release of its prisoners.
''Iraq is getting stronger every day by acquiring chemical and nonconventional arms that threaten us,'' Mr. Alpher said on Israeli television. ''There is a reason to see to it that Iran can continue confronting and diversing the Iraqi forces.''
''Beyond that,'' he said, ''Iran has oil, Iran has Jews and all these are good reasons for renewal of connections with Iran, without any relation to the governing regime.''
The two nations have dealt secretly with each other in the past. In 1985 and 1986 during the Iran-contra affair, Israel provided some of the American-made missiles shipped to Iran in hopes of freeing American hostages in Lebanon. Israel also provided Iran with spare military parts during the Iran-Iraq war.
Over the weekend, Israeli officials said the Iranian Government had custody of at least one Israeli captive, Capt. Ron Arad, a navigator whose F-4 Phantom fighter jet went down in south Lebanon in October 1986; Israel called on Iran to free Captain Arad, whose whereabouts are unknown.
 
Israelis Disavow Knowledge
JERUSALEM, Dec. 19 (Special to The New York Times) - The Ministry of Energy said today that it had no knowledge of a purchase of Iranian oil by the Israeli Government.
Speaking after Washington said Israel had reported the deal last month, the Energy Ministry spokesman, Eliahu Ben-On, said his office ''does not need to relate to'' the State Department announcement.
''We buy 60 to 70 percent of our annual oil needs from Egypt, Mexico and Norway according to longstanding contracts,'' he said. ''The rest is purchased on the seasonal spot market, and where it comes from we don't know.''
Defense Ministry officials refused to comment on the NBC assertion that the oil deal was to be used as leverage to free captives in Lebanon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); LEBANON (94%); IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SWITZERLAND (77%); 

CITY: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL, STATE OF; IRAN; LEBANON

SUBJECT: HOSTAGES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; SALES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET HOSTAGE TAKING (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); APPROVALS (72%); CURRENCIES (70%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (68%); TERRORISM (66%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); 



534 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Delegate Calls U.N.'s Session 'Constructive'

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Dec. 19

 BODY:
As the 44th United Nations General Assembly moves toward a close, the American representative, Thomas R. Pickering, described the session today as ''one of the most constructive and realistic within memory'' and said it had promoted a ''nondogmatic approach'' to world problems.
At a news conference called to give the United States view, Mr. Pickering described the Bush Administration as ''pleased not only with the accomplishments of the 44th session'' but also with ''the positive signals'' it has sent about prospects for resolving world conflicts, jointly addressing problems no country can solve alone and carrying out agreed United Nations changes.
Mr. Pickering's assessment was broadly similar to that offered last week by Deputy Foreign Minister Vladimir F. Petrovsky of the Soviet Union, who said the Assembly has ''moved beyond ideology'' into ''the post-confrontational world.'' Earlier this week, Maj. Gen. Joseph N. Garba of Nigeria, the General Assembly's President, said ''a new constructive and cooperative spirit'' is abroad in the world. 
All three attributed the Assembly's positive tone this year to reduced superpower tension, a recognition that many problems require cooperative solutions and the Soviet Union's new interest in the United Nations.
 
On Drug Trafficking
Summarizing what he called the session's more positive achievements, Mr. Pickering mentioned record support for Israel's membership as well as record or unanimous support for resolutions barring the Khmer Rouge from sole power in Cambodia and calling for peace in Afghanistan.
He also listed the unanimous agreement on an action program against drug trafficking, the agreed ban on drift net fishing, a declaration of guiding principles for South Africa's shift away from apartheid and the likelihood that a consensus will be reached before the Assembly ends Friday on steps to protect the world from climate change On what he referred to as the negative side, Mr. Pickering listed the ''unbalanced'' resolutions adopted on the Middle East, the Arabs' attempt to get the Palestine Liberation Organization recognized as the government of a proclaimed Palestinian state and a third-world campaign to weaken human rights enforcement by increasing the size of the Human Rights Commission.
Most delegates agreed that this 44th General Assembly was a turning point in United Nations history, with a sharp decline in ideological confrontation and a new search to unanimity on critical global questions. Nevertheless, many called the American assesment optimistic and said it ignored dangers of America's own making now facing the organization.
 
British Effort Blocked
A common observation, glossed over in the American assessment, is that better superpower relations have coincided with an upsurge in North-South tension in the world.
At this year's Assembly, developing countries blocked a British-led effort at reorganizing the United Nations economic and social agencies. Under Chinese leadership they called for the world organization to stop criticizing governments for human rights abuses, saying this constitutes interference in internal affairs. They also fought aggressively to secure economic concessions in return for cooperating on environmental and other issues.
Such resurgent North-South tensions have aroused fears that the industrialized powers might eventually tire of trying to win third world backing for environmental and other projects they favor and press ahead alone outside the United Nations framework.
The upbeat American view, critics also contend, takes no account of the bitter feelings left by the Bush Administration's threat to withhold future contributions to the United Nations if the Assembly upgraded the P.L.O.'s representation, at a time when it owes the organization more than $500 million in unpaid dues.
 
On Zionism Resolution
Neither does it reflect the apprehension aroused by Vice President Dan Quayle's sudden announcement that the United States will seek to repeal a General Assembly resolution passed in 1975 that equates Zionism with racism.
The Soviet Union has come out publicly against the proposal, calling it divisive. And many Western countries think repeal impossible without a breakthrough in the Middle East peace process. But they fear that Congress will engineer a confrontation with the United Nations next year by threatening to withold funds unless the Assembly cancels the Zionism resolution.
This has led to bitter accusations that the United States wants to extend its Security Council veto into the General Assembly's debates by warning it may cut back funds if it does not get its way.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NIGERIA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (76%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (64%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); 

PERSON: PICKERING, THOMAS R (AMB); LEWIS, PAUL TZIPORA LIVNI (64%); 



535 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Kinshasa Journal;
Getting Rich in Zaire: An American, 33, Tells How

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KINSHASA, Zaire

 BODY:
He is young, brash, wealthy and seems to be buying up everything in sight.
Edwyn Blattner, a 33-year-old entrepreneur from Bayonne, N.J., is an increasingly rare species in black Africa: an American investor. And by his own accounting, he is tantalizingly close to becoming the biggest foreign investor in all of Zaire.
Fresh out of Syracuse University with a undergraduate degree in chemical engineering and a master's in business, he joined his father's business, a modest textile mill here in Zaire's capital. 
Over the next few years, with leverage and luck, Edwyn Blattner bought a succession of other businesses: a Goodyear tire factory, Kinshasa's only slaughterhouse, a canning factory, rubber, coffee and palm-oil plantations.
 
Owns 60,000 Square Miles
He also bought a lot of land at what he said where bargain prices, although he declined to give figures. The family now owns 60,000 square miles spread through virtually ever section of Zaire.
Last June, the Blattners made their biggest acquisition, the conglomerate Agricom, based in Belgium. The Blattner family organization, African Holding Company of America, is now an umbrella for more than 40 entities, employing about 17,000 workers, of which the largest and most striking properties were developed by the younger Blattner.
''He's just like that American, Donald Trump, but even more so,'' said Nzanda Kasole, a Zairian businessman who has traveled widely in the West. ''What he's been able to do here in such a brief period is phenomenal.''
 
He Buys Dead Companies
Asked to explain his family's business success, Mr. Blattner said, ''Buy cheap.''
''All the companies you now see are purchased companies, companies that were bankrupted, or dead practically.'' He said most of the companies were bought from Belgian nationals.
Business acumen aside, Mr. Blattner has also benefited from the fact that he has spent most of his life here. He was born in America, and his family moved to Zaire in 1960. He speaks French, and the main languages of the interior, Lingala and Swahili.
What is especially striking about the Blattner empire is that it appears to be flourishing in what is among the most difficult places on earth to do business.
Many of the services that entrepreneurs even in neighboring African countries take for granted simply do not exist here. The network of about 88,000 miles of usable roads built by the Belgian colonialists, for example, has shrunk to about 12,000 miles of which only about 1,400 is paved, and much of that is rutted and riddled with potholes.
 
Phones Aren't Much Good
The country has no telephone system to speak of; dialing into the country's vast interior is virtually hopeless, and international calls are among the world's most expensive -more than $10 a minute to Europe or the United States.
''We're getting into a lot of businesses that we're not supposed to because the infrastructure that the country gives us is so poor,'' Mr. Blattner said as he gave a tour of his modern canning factory near the Cite, the sprawling community where most of Kinshasa's four million people live.
In the interior, for example, the Blattners operate a small fleet of their goods on company-owned boats.
Unlike the practice of Belgian nationals, from whom Mr. Blattner bought most of his properties, he said his practice is to fill the ranks of his company with Zairians, especially at the management level.
''My reputation is that of a guy who uses very little expatriate labor,'' he said, ''because I believe that the locals give much better job performance and much better stability in their work, because it's their country.''
 
He Reproaches the Belgians
Indeed, he is especially critical of Belgian nationals, who form the largest group of expatriates and who he said often failed as businessmen here because they were arrogant and abusive managers.
''They have this authoritarian, paternalistic attitude,'' he said. ''And the workers don't respond to it.''
Although the wages of most of his employees are low by American standards - a skilled factory worker makes about $200 a month - they are considered generous in a poor country. A Secret Partnership? Still, to some Zairians, Mr. Blattner's success is a bit unsettling. For one thing, the theory goes, the Blattners must on some level be in partnership with President Mobutu Sese Seko to have done so much, so quickly. But Mr. Blattner says that because of the huge size of his holdings, the graft and corruption that permeate much of business life here are not problems he has to deal with.
''Mismanagement is a much greater problem than corruption,'' he said. ''Not because the people here are incompetent, but because there's very little stability within the Government.''
 
Revolving-Door Rule
Indeed, President Mobutu habitually shifts ministers and executives of state-run industries from job to job at a rapid rate, a maneuver critics say is intended to prevent them from acquiring a political constituency independent of himself.
''There's no continuity,'' Mr. Blattner complained. ''You talk to somebody, explain your problem, and when he starts to look at it and understand it, he gets replaced. And you start again. And this can happen five or six times in one year.''
Despite the often decrepit conditions, the corruption and mismanagement, Mr. Blattner said he cannot imagine being in business anywhere else.
''Nowhere else in the world could I have been able to do what I've done, at 33 years of age,'' he said. ''That's why I call this the wild west. If you're willing to put yourself on the line, it's wide open out here.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
Because of a transmission error, an article and a caption on Dec. 20 about an American entrepreneur in Zaire misidentified him. He is Elwyn Blattner.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Edwyn Blattner, a 33-year-old entrepreneur from Bayonne, N.J., who is, by his own accounting, tantalizingly close to becoming the biggest foreign investor in Zaire. (NYT/Kenneth B. Noble)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GT (SWX) (56%); GT (NASDAQ) (56%); GT (BRU) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (56%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (56%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (56%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (56%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (56%); 

COUNTRY: CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (93%); BELGIUM (87%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); EARTH (51%); 

CITY: KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (91%); 

COMPANY: GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (56%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (57%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ZAIRE, REPUBLIC OF; KINSHASA (ZAIRE)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); FAMILY COMPANIES (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); TRENDS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); ENGINEERING (71%); TEXTILE MFG (70%); TEXTILE MILLS (70%); TIRE MFG (69%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (69%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: BLATTNER, EDWYN; NOBLE, KENNETH B DONALD TRUMP (78%); 



536 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: BEFORE THE CLASH, AN OUTWARD CALM

BYLINE: By LINDSEY GRUSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PANAMA, Dec. 19

 BODY:
While tensions between the Government here and the United States were rising today, throngs braved steamy heat in search of Christmas bargains.
The Government newspapers denounced the United States and warned of an impending invasion, but the war of words between the two countries over two shooting incidents in three days was belied by the calm on the streets.
''It's Christmas and I'm not going to let anything get in the way of that,'' a retired schoolteacher said as a salesman loaded a 20-inch Sony color television she had bought into a taxi. 
After 18 months of American-imposed economic sanctions, many Panamanians appeared to be more concerned about the price of gifts than the likelihood of an American invasion.
 
Looking for a Bargain
A 37-year-old laborer, who lost his job more than 14 months ago with the collapse of the Panamanian construction industry, sadly rejected one radio alarm clock after another that he wanted to buy for his wife. The salesman brought him a knockoff that sold for $14.95.
''Do you have anything smaller?'' the laborer asked the harried salesman in a crowded electronics store in the central business district.
The salesman showed him a brown plastic radio clock that sold for $8.95.
''Is that the smallest you have?'' the laborer asked in the polite lexicon of this country's bankrupt shoppers. ''Yes,'' the salesman said. ''Sorry,'' the laborer said before leaving.
 
Sales Slowest in Recent Memory
Traffic in the central business district appeared lighter than in years past. There were fewer buses, and businessmen said sales were the slowest in recent memory.
''Nobody has anything in their hands,'' noted one taxi driver as he drove along the streets that are usually blocked. ''Everybody's just window shopping.''
But the old city remained a newly created labyrinth of blocked streets patrolled by soldiers guarding Panama's military headquarters and the official residence of the Panamanian ruler, Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega.
 
News Personnel Detained
PANAMA, Dec. 19 (Reuters) -Three journalists, one from The New York Times and two from Reuters, were briefly detained today by United States troops as they sought to investigate details of an apparent American airlift into Howard Air Force Base. Those detained were two reporters -Lindsey Gruson of The Times and Lerna Llerena of Reuters - and Malcolm Linton, a photographer on assignment for Reuters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); PANAMA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); ARMED FORCES (85%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (75%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); AIR FORCES (72%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (70%); DISMISSALS (68%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); MILITARY BASES (66%); 

PERSON: GRUSON, LINDSEY



537 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: Western Europe Seeks Arab Economic Ties

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Dec. 19

 BODY:
A meeting of 22 Arab and 12 European Community foreign ministers is scheduled in Paris this week to revive a stumbling political and economic discussion between Western Europe and the Arab world.
The large-scale gathering, scheduled for Thursday and Friday, is the most ambitious attempt yet to establish a process of economic and political negotiations between the Arab League and Western European members of the European Community on important economic and political issues, according to French and Arab diplomats. Despite repeated efforts since 1973, such regular talks have failed to materialize. 
Senior Arab diplomats said they would concentrate their effort primarily on beginning a program of economic cooperation, focused on the flow of Arab agricultural and petroleum products to Europe, instead of seeking agreements on difficult political issues of the Middle East such as the Arab-Israeli conflict, the Iraq-Iran conflict, and the crisis in Lebanon.
''We mean this to be a very soft, very low-key beginning,'' a senior Egyptian diplomat here, who asked not to be identified, said. ''If we can help it, there is not going to be any big political declaration. The focus will be on starting some form of economic cooperation with Western Europe with an eye on the big European Community merger planned for 1992.''
The caution with which Europeans and Arabs appear to approach this week's talks follows a string of failures since the effort began in the aftermath of the Arab oil embargo against the United States and the Netherlands in November 1973.
The embargo severely disrupted Western European economies, pushing a number of European nations, most notably Italy and Spain, to advocate closer ties to the Arab countries, particularly Arab oil producers in the Persian Gulf region.
The talks held since the embargo have stumbled over differences about the role of the Palestine Liberation Organization in such talks, European objections to the suspension of Egypt from Arab League membership after it signed a peace treaty with Israel in 1979, and the European Community's imposition of sanctions on Syria and Libya on the grounds that the two countries sponsored acts of terrorism in November 1986.
In addition, French and Arab diplomats said, American expressions of hostility to anything resembling negotiations between poor and rich nations over the last decade also weighed heavily in delaying the process.
The talks are to be held under the joint chairmanship of President Francois Mitterrand of France and King Hassan II of Morocco, who will open and close the sessions. France and Morocco respectively chair the European Community and the summit conference of the Arab League this year.
''We must retain and deepen Western European interests in the Middle East as a strategic region and a major source of energy supplies in the 90's and beyond,'' said an Arab ambassador in Paris, adding that political issues can wait in view of the economic changes ahead for Europe.
Arab diplomats said that among their primary concerns is the fear that the political upheaval taking place in Eastern Europe may divert Western European economic resources to the nascent markets of the Communist bloc at the expense of Arab economies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (62%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); WESTERN EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); MOROCCO (92%); EGYPT (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SPAIN (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (74%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (62%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (83%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY; ARAB LEAGUE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; EUROPE

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (86%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (73%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (73%); TRENDS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); TERRORISM (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M TZIPORA LIVNI (53%); 



538 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East;
With Reform, Tough Times for the Warsaw Pact

BYLINE: By BERNARD E. TRAINOR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 19

 BODY:
In a few months, political turmoil in Eastern Europe has transformed the Warsaw Pact military alliance from a force feared in the West to an increasingly hollow organization without a clear purpose.
Although the pact's armies remain intact -there have been no defections and discipline is being maintained - the alliance has been neutralized by popular discontent in the streets of Leipzig and Prague, Dresden and Sofia, and other Eastern-bloc cities.
Organized for the dual purposes of offsetting the armies of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and insuring conformity to Soviet directives, the Warsaw Pact forces can no longer be counted on to do either, many military experts say.
Only in hard-line Rumania, a member of the pact in name only where no Soviet troops are stationed, is the regime willing to use the army to retain power. experts say. 
The weakening of the alliance is one of the reasons that the Bush Administration is reconsidering American military strategy and has moved in recent weeks to consider large reductions in arms spending over the next five years.
 
Western Threat Seen as Receding
American officials and experts in this country in and out of government say that the armies of Poland, East Germany, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Bulgaria and Rumania will not fight to preserve Soviet power, and few among them reportedly now see a threat from the West.
Nor can Warsaw Pact armies be used against their own people or their neighbors, as was the case in Czechoslovakia in 1968, said David Isby, an expert on the Warsaw Pact. In August of that year, five armies of the Communist alliance joined in putting an end to Prague Spring, Alexander Dubcek's liberalization movement.
The Soviets and their allies have admitted that the suppression of the Czechoslovaks was wrong and have embraced the right of nations to determine their own political futures.
Moscow's ability to take unilateral military action is another matter. Given President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's desire to focus Soviet resources on reviving his country's economy, the threat of Soviet military action in Europe has receded. Despite the formidable Soviet armored formations that are still based in East Germany, few Western military experts believe that the Kremlin has the stomach for confrontation.
But American military analysts agree that the loss of allies does not seriously undermine the Soviet military itself. With the exception of the East Germans, the Kremlin has always been uncertain of the reliability of its allies in wartime. As a result, Warsaw Pact plans have been based on the assumption that the Soviet Army would bear the brunt of the fighting.
 
Russians in Key Positions
Soviet units make up four-fifths of the alliance's force of about six million troops and bear 80 percent of its costs. With the exception of Rumania, the armies of Poland, East Germany, Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Bulgaria include Soviet military officers in every division.
All pivotal wartime command and staff positions are in Soviet hands, and national units are integrated into Soviet formations. Military communications and control measures already run directly to the Soviet Union. Uniformity has been the rule. The pact must use Soviet equipment and adhere to Soviet training methods, doctrine and tactics. To insure uniformity, officers of the alliance are trained in Soviet war colleges.
The pact armies seem now to be in a state of suspended animation, with nobody giving many orders, much less ones that might not be obeyed, like calling out the military to suppress public demonstrations or prevent the fall of Communist governments.
 
Role of Military Deferred
The reformers ascending to power in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union have been careful to isolate Warsaw Pact military forces from the events around them. It is as though by unspoken agreement, questions of the role of the military are being left for quieter times.
Administration officials say the Soviet military leadership, through its Warsaw Pact command channels, made it clear that armies of the alliance would not intervene in political events. They were to remain in garrisons and see to their own security.
In all pact countries, the military portfolios remain in Communist hands. Soviet and national armies remain in garrisons, and other than increasing security, they go about the tasks of military life as though nothing unusual was taking place.
Defense Department officials say the Soviets are routinely carrying out their scheduled twice-a-year troop rotations, when large numbers of soldiers due for discharge are returned to the Soviet Union and replaced by new conscripts. There have been no changes or cancellations reported in the annual pact exercises scheduled to begin in Eastern Europe in the spring.
It is as though the Warsaw Pact armies have a life independent of the nations that staff them. And in a sense that is true. Unlike NATO armies, which are independent, co-equal national forces with their own equipment, doctrine, training and command mechanisms, which would operate within a multinational command structure in wartime, the Eastern European armies ''are the world's most non-national armies and simply part of the Soviet Army,'' said Mr. Isby, the Warsaw Pact expert.
 
Rendered Essentially Absurd
But those arrangements cannot last with the rejection of Communism and the rebirth of nationalism among its members. The Soviets recognize this and are readjusting to the reality. While maintaining the current pact organization, they have begun withdrawing their forces behind their borders and reorganizing their army under a new defensive doctrine. Ray Garthoff of the Brookings Institution says Eastern Europe is becoming a buffer between the West and the Soviet homeland rather than the front line of the Soviet Army.
To maintain the Warsaw Pact as a military alliance, radical changes must occur within it to allow for national self-determination and the existence of non-Communist governments within its ranks. This might mean that membership would be voluntary and subject to multinational cooperation instead of rigid military orthodoxy.
Such an alliance could serve to allay fears of a reunited Germany, particularly for Poland. It could also provide a framework for stability throughout Central Europe. There are traditional enmities between Warsaw Pact members. Bulgaria and Rumania, and Hungary and Bulgaria, for example.
Up until now, those have been held in check by the Warsaw Treaty Organization because the Soviets saw to it that the members had no independent ability to plan hostilities against their neighbors. With Soviet control removed, national antagonisms could re-emerge, particularly if discontent and disillusionment replace the current euphoria of national independence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Military Analysis

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ROMANIA (93%); HUNGARY (91%); GERMANY (90%); BULGARIA (89%); CZECH REPUBLIC (88%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (94%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WARSAW PACT (1955)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; EUROPE, EAST; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); 

PERSON: TRAINOR, BERNARD E



539 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Make Room for West Side Students

 BODY:
Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts may be one of America's most successful urban renewal projects. Over the years it has weathered scary economics and disputes among temperamental artists. Yet its esthetic whole continues to exceed the sum of its constituent institutions. 
Now one of those institutions, the West Side Manhattan campus of Fordham University, needs to build housing for students who study at Lincoln Center. Tomorrow the Board of Estimate can help provide that important benefit to the university, at no cost to anyone else.
The urban renewal plan for Lincoln Center set aside almost all the two southerly blocks for Fordham. The university purchased the land, subject to the plan, and built academic buildings. It reserved a dormitory site but needs a new infusion of money to make its rooms affordable by students.
To raise the money, Fordham would sell off a small piece of its Lincoln Center site to a developer for $16.5 million. The developer would erect a 42-story tower, consistent with an apartment house next door. The Planning Commission has approved the plan for the new tower. Opponents, including Community Board 7, resist any further development. They point out that the Lincoln Center plan forbids the land to be used for anything but institutional purposes until 1997.
Thus Fordham's dormitory plan depends on the Board of Estimate's changing the Lincoln Center development plan. There is good reason to do so. The restriction on Fordham's use or resale for a non-institutional purpose was intended to assure that the site would remain dedicated to the performing arts and education. That plan is complete. There are no new plans for additional artistic or educational institutions at Lincoln Center. The 1997 date was a safety valve, allowing the institutions to sell their land if the original plan failed.
It is entirely consistent with the Lincoln Center plan to allow the use of underutilized land, with Planning Commission approval, by one of the institutions to further its program. When Lincoln Center was built, cheap housing was easier to find and dormitories were not essential to urban universities. In today's housing market their importance has grown.
Creating living space for students enrolled in classes at Lincoln Center will help Fordham, the Lincoln Center enclave, the surrounding community and the city as a whole. The Fordham plan merits approval.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (94%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (94%); LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (NYC); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY; BOARD OF ESTIMATE (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; DORMITORIES; HOUSING; EDITORIALS; ZONING STUDENT HOUSING (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ZONING (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); 



540 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Doubleheader for Democracy;
A Promising Renewal in Chile

 BODY:
After 16 years of cruel tyranny, Chile now stands poised for a remarkable political transformation. Patricio Aylwin's triumph in last week's presidential election means a return to democratic life under particularly promising circumstances. Washington has a clear interest in giving strong support to what could become the region's model democracy. 
Chile benefits from a deep-rooted democratic tradition. But it could not withstand the pressures that buffeted the elected Socialist Government of Salvador Allende in the early 1970's. Passionate political divisions and economic turmoil caused by mismanagement, strikes and deliberate U.S. pressure culminated in Gen. Augusto Pinochet's successful military coup.
The Pinochet years brought executions, disappearances, torture and mass exile. They also brought state terrorism against perceived enemies of the regime in Chile and other countries, including the murder of a prominent Chilean exile and his U.S. co-worker on a Washington D.C. street.
Yet while almost every other Latin military regime converted mere economic crises into disasters, the Pinochet Government achieved a healthy reorientation of Chilean economic life. It reduced Chile's historic dependence on copper, pared down the bureaucracy and permitted private enterprise to flourish.
In a continent crippled by low growth and high inflation, Chile has enjoyed stable expansion. That hasn't brought much consolation to union labor or the very poor, who have lost ground. But Chile's overall economic performance has been so impressive that even left-wing parties now endorse the market-oriented approach.
President-elect Aylwin will face real problems. The Constitution leaves uncomfortably large powers in military hands. Appointive Senate seats will unfairly dilute his congressional backing. A broad coalition from left to center-right backed his candidacy. As the component parties strike out on their own, these problems could be compounded. And Chile retains a heavy burden of foreign debt. Happily, democratic Chile needs no bailouts or emergency aid from abroad. What it does need from America is consistent support. Washington can encourage the continuing retreat of the Chilean military from politics, can shield Chilean exports from protectionist pressure and can lobby for appropriate relief on the foreign debt. The prospect of a model democracy warrants no less.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: CHILE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHILE

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ELECTIONS; EDITORIALS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (87%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LOBBYING (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); DISASTER RELIEF (72%); PROTECTIONISM (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); COUPS (69%); TERRORISM (54%); 

PERSON: AYLWIN, PATRICIO PATRICIO AZOCAR AYLWIN (74%); 



541 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: High Cost of Becoming Yellow-Cab Driver Discourages Recruits

 BODY:
To the Editor:
You report on the shortage of taxi drivers in New York City and what is being done about it, including a fare increase approved Nov. 30 by the Taxi and Limousine Commission (news article, Dec. 4). The situation is worsened by high fees the commission charges prospective new drivers.
The up-front costs for anyone seeking a hack license is $234. That comprises the fee for the Taxi Institute, which has just been increased to $125, $25 for a bus tour, $24 for fingerprinting and $60 for the license. The $234 is paid at least two to four weeks before a worker may start earning a living. 
We believe that the $60 hack license fee should be enough to cover all costs! It is an outrage that an unemployed person, or anybody for that matter who chooses to become a taxicab driver, should be subjected to these exorbitant fees.
The excess fees also make it difficult for the taxi industry to recruit part-time and fill-in drivers. Traditionally, students drove cabs in the summer or on breaks. Workers on furlough or on strike in other industries would drive a taxi for extra income. Many workers drive a taxi one or two days a week to help make ends meet. The $234 discourages many of these people from coming into the industry.
A note on our competition: The yellow cab industry competes for personnel with radio cars, limousines and liveries. Prospective drivers for any of those need only make a change in driver's license to a class 4 chauffeur's license at the Department of Motor Vehicles. They can go to work the same day.
Only potential drivers of yellow taxis are subjected to high costs and delays before they can go to work.
We are not against the concept of the Taxi Institute. Local 3036 originated the program years before it was adopted by the Taxi Commission. We continue to run traffic and safety classes for our members.
We object, however, to a worker's being charged a fee for city-mandated classes. We would like to see a system that would allow workers to earn while they learn. We believe this would be fairer to the worker while providing increased taxi service to the public.
 
LAWRENCE GOLDBERG
Secretary-Treasurer, Taxi Drivers
and Allied Workers Union
 Long Island City, Queens, Dec. 6, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: TAXICABS AND TAXICAB DRIVERS TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); DRIVERS LICENSES (78%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); STRIKES (69%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, LAWRENCE



542 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: FOREIGN AFFAIRS;
The Unequal Alliances

BYLINE: By Flora Lewis

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
The cold war bred an assumption that the two sides of the East-West equation should be considered equals. That has been the basis of arms control negotiations up to now. But it is breaking down.
As the transformation of Eastern Europe develops, the old idea of overcoming the division of Europe by dissolving alliances has to be discarded. Each will still have certain functions, but they will be different, from the present and from each other. 
Negotiators in Vienna are working doggedly to cut conventional forces in Europe, what a Soviet analyst recently called ''these monstrous war machines,'' to parity at a lower level. That became possible with Moscow's major concession of accepting ''asymmetrical reductions,'' as the jargon puts it, because it has more troops and weaponry than the West.
But a new, reverse asymmetry will emerge from changes in the East. The Warsaw Pact will be hard pressed to sustain the force level the West wants as a ceiling.
Already the interim, and still Communist, Government in Hungary has signaled that it wants Soviet troops to withdraw. Czechoslovakia's new Foreign Minister pointed out that there was no valid basis for the 70,000 to 75,000 Soviet troops stationed in his country since Moscow admitted that the 1968 invasion was ''illegal.''
Poland's new Government appreciates Soviet sensitivity about forces on its territory assuring links to the 400,000-strong Soviet garrison in East Germany. But Warsaw wants cuts and treaty revisions. And Moscow can have little confidence now in the reliability of its Warsaw Pact allies.
Yet Mikhail Gorbachev told President Bush in Malta that American forces should stay in Europe, which means preserving NATO. As Secretary of State James Baker said last week, the alliance is the central link between the U.S. and Western Europe and will remain vital to both.
For some time the two alliances will be needed, if only to oversee coming arms reductions. Beyond that, the probability of German reunification is a powerful motive for Europeans on both sides of the divide to keep the balancing weight America provides.
The idea of a neutral Germany at the center of Europe is as obsolete as the Berlin wall. It is much too powerful economically and, increasingly, politically to be credible as a giant Austria or Switzerland. It needs to be anchored in institutions, both the European Community and NATO, as Mr. Baker said, if it is not to become a dreaded loose cannon.
This is not a matter of trust, but of European dynamics. And embers of fear of Germany are live. That showed in the irrational reaction to Chancellor Helmut Kohl's speech outlining conditions and steps toward some kind of German unity.
Mr. Kohl was rightly criticized for going off on his own, failing to consult his coalition partners and allies in his haste to seek domestic political gain. And he was rightly criticized for refusing to include assurances on Poland's western border.
But his speech was useful. It offered to Germans on both sides the hope of an orderly, democratic approach to the unity issue. That doesn't hurry the process. It's probably the only way to slow it down, by pre-empting crowds in the street chanting slogans of German nationalism.
Whether it includes East Germany or not, the Warsaw Pact may also be needed to maintain peace in Eastern Europe until its inhabitants reach the kind of reconciliation achieved in the West. At present, the surge to democracy is releasing suppressed nationalisms that could turn dangerous.
But its function as the basis for a Soviet bloc, set against the West, will disappear. This will seem at first an unacceptable imbalance to Moscow, alongside a politically strengthened NATO. Soviet analysts should ponder carefully Mr. Baker's milestone Berlin speech saying, ''A legitimate and stable European order will help, it will not threaten, legitimate Soviet interests.'' America's contribution to that order remains essential in what NATO's Secretary General, Manfred Woerner, called ''the long period of transition that we are now entering.''
As the East European countries make the painful switch to market economies, they will loosen their ties to the Soviets. But they can also work as a vanguard to ease even more difficult Soviet integration into the world economy: raising standards, expanding trade.
It is hard to conceive yet the kind of Soviet-U.S. reconciliation that would enable Moscow to see a disintegrating Warsaw Pact and a sturdy, if transformed, NATO as favorable developments. But mentalities are changing. Already Moscow has said it is not threatened by attack from the West. The changes have been one-sided because one side needed much more change. That will be true throughout the coming decade.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (94%); POLAND (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); AUSTRIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HUNGARY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); MALTA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO); WARSAW PACT (1955)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, FLORA GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



543 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: Florio Picks 2 Commissioners

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, Dec. 19

 BODY:
Governor-elect James J. Florio today named the people he wants to head the Labor and Commerce Departments when his administration begins on Jan. 16.
Mr. Florio named George R. Zoffinger of Byram, executive vice president of the First Fidelity Bank, as Commerce Commissioner and Raymond L. Bramucci of Bergenfield, director of Senator Bill Bradley's office in New Jersey, as Labor Commissioner. 
Mr. Florio said the two would work closely on activities like consolidating the 63 government-supported job-training programs. ''Never in my 25 years in public life has there been a time when it is easier to bring business and labor together to focus on common needs,'' Mr. Florio said at a news conference in the State Senate Chamber.
He said the interests of labor in providing jobs for workers and those of business in finding qualified employees will give the commissioners, who are also friends, common ground. ''I've talked to businessmen in recent days who say they can't find people to preserve even their present level of economic activity,'' Mr. Florio said.
Mr. Zoffinger, 41 years old, has been in charge of the London office of First Fidelity since January and has broad experience in international trade, which, Mr. Florio said, was important to his selection. Mr. Zoffinger is a member of the board of the New Jersey World Trade Council and the Governor's Commission on International Trade and is a director of the New Jersey District Export Council.
Mr. Bramucci, 54, has directed Mr. Bradley's New Jersey office since 1979. Before that he was an official of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union for 19 years, including seven years as assistant general manager of the New Jersey region.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FIRST FIDELITY BANK NA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); GOVERNORS (74%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); EXPORT PROMOTION (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (54%); 

PERSON: FLORIO, JAMES J (REPR); ZOFFINGER, GEORGE R; BRAMUCCI, RAYMOND L GEORGE R ZOFFINGER (93%); 



544 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 9, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION;
The Challenge of Teaching History As the Cold War Recedes in Europe

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
Many times this fall, Baiba Schletty was ready to throw away the lesson plan and make her high school history students look far beyond the orchards and fields that are the economic foundation of rural Berryville, Va.
She wanted the classes to know what it meant that Communism was crumbling in Eastern Europe. But first she had to explain a couple of things, like ''cold war'' and ''Berlin Wall.''
Ms. Schletty, like many teachers around the country, wants to link the history that Eastern Europeans are living to the history that American students are learning. Charged with illuminating the American political experience, teachers of history and social studies are eager to have their students watch Eastern European nations redefining their own political identities. 
But the realities of lesson planning, state-mandated curriculum requirements and student indifference often leave limited opportunity for impromptu lessons in current events.
''There's a lot of pressure to get through the curriculum,'' said Louise Brantley, a social studies teacher at Sprague High School in Salem, Ore. ''If I'm teaching a course in ancient civilizations, that doesn't give me a lot of opening to discuss Eastern Europe. And if I don't bring in ideas in context, they're not going to understand them at all.''
''But,'' she added, ''if I can't relate ideas from the past to their own situation, then I'm not teaching them very much.''
 
Problem With Immediacy
Part of the challenge, teachers say, is the speed and sweep of events. And some believe that the generally nonviolent character of the Eastern European revolution reduces its immediacy for a generation reared on television fare like ''Miami Vice.''
''This is revolutionary, but it doesn't have a sharp focus, like the events in Tiananmen Square,'' said Saul Bruckner, principal of Edward R. Murrow High School in Brooklyn. ''This isn't something that can be personalized the way you could personalize the death of a John Kennedy or the explosion of a space shuttle. It's too wide a picture; it's continuing over too long a period of time.''
Some teachers who grew up in the early decades of the cold war, during the Berlin blockade, the Cuban missile crisis and the omnipresent fear of nuclear annihilation, are philosophical about the new generation's indifference to the snipping of Europe's barbed wire or to youths dancing on a distant wall.
''I think this is such a major change in the world; I believe that this is the end of the cold war,'' said Ms. Schletty, a native of Latvia who always includes that Baltic republic in map tests of the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. ''But it is hard for students. The basic concept that is hard for them is that different societies live differently.''
 
U.S. Frame of Reference
Bonny Cochran, who teaches history at Bethesda-Chevy Chase High School in the Maryland suburbs of Washington, observed, ''The kids think the whole world should be evolving into a two-party system because that's what we have.''
Mr. Bruckner, in Brooklyn, said that many of his students remain indifferent even though ''they're living the history,'' studying next to new students from immigrant Soviet Jewish families.
Yet things are comparatively easy for teachers like William J. Stark, head of the social studies department at the Bronx High School of Science, an academically elite school where students are eager to explore new frontiers, especially when events have outraced their textbooks.
East-West comparisons have long been part of courses in American government. Beginning about 30 years ago, most high school textbooks and course materials framed discussions of the Soviet Union in terms of ideological enmity and a Communist quest for world domination. While the basic reference point of ideological rivalry remains in most texts, the distinctions are drawn far less sharply.
Prodded by fast-moving events, many junior high schools and high schools that offer current events courses and some teachers in advanced comparative government courses have found themselves making the daily newspaper their text.
 
Lessons in Anti-Communism
A few states still mandate lessons in anti-Communism. Florida, for instance, requires that each world history course - usually taught to sophomores - includes 30 hours of instruction in ''Americanism versus Communism.''
But, said Kathleen McCarron, a world history teacher in Lincoln High School in Tallahassee, the required 30 hours of ideological instruction can be woven into different course units. ''During the events in Eastern Europe, we were talking about the Delian League, the alliance of Greek city-states, which had each member contributing money and troops,'' Ms. McCarron said. ''We made the comparisons to NATO and the Warsaw Pact.''
While teachers agree that it may be asking a lot to expect teen-agers to grasp the magnitude of the changes in Eastern Europe, they disagree about whether the students can be made to see beyond the vistas of their neighborhoods - the apartment houses in Brooklyn or the apple orchards in Berryville.
Mr. Bruckner believes that students basically do not care - and that they are not at fault. ''The fact that we have a global village makes it difficult for kids to identify with people,'' he said. ''The spelling is so different. The names are difficult. It is more difficult to teach kids than a few years ago. Then the world, for them, was the West. Now the world is so different.''
 
Challenge for Teachers Seen
But Bob Mathis, who teaches at the Bethesda-Chevy Chase High school, thinks there are few indifferent students - just inept teachers. ''I start with the premise that they know very little,'' he said. ''We start with, 'Who's Harry Truman?' But it doesn't take long to get them up to speed.''
In an affluent St. Louis suburb last month, seventh graders at Chesterfield's Central Junior High School were assigned an essay: ''If you lived in East Berlin, would you want to leave or to stay and rebuild?'' As the papers came in, the teacher, Sue Brannon, read, over and over, the words, ''I'd want more freedom.''
The lesson stayed with the students. On the day the Berlin Wall ceased to be a barrier, 12-year-old Jill Flotkin was watching the news, and ran to call her parents to the television when she saw the scenes from the Brandenburg Gate.
The changes register in another way. In Billie Day's sophomore class on Global Perspectives at Banneker High School in Washington, students huddle in groups each Monday, preparing reports on the current events discussed on the news-discussion programs they watched over the weekend.
When asked whether the United States has any national enemies, they looked at each other, puzzled, for a long half-minute before one or two hands were tentatively raised. ''Our worst enemy is ourselves, instead of a foreign country,'' responded Rebeccah Bennett, 14. ''Especially since we're seeing a lot of reforms in Eastern Europe. Since Gorbachev got in, he's gotten rid of so much that was wrong. If we were going to have a war, who would it be with?''

GRAPHIC: Billie Day is among the many teachers who are trying to supplement state-mandated curriculums with discussion of politics and current events. At Banneker High School in Washington, she talked with Gail Alleyne, left, and Reagan Rucker about developments in Eastern Europe (The New York Times/Andrea Mohin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (92%); BALTIC STATES (79%); LATVIA (73%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); SALEM, OR, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE

SUBJECT: HISTORY STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); COLD WAR (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); HISTORY (90%); CURRICULA (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (73%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY JOHN F KENNEDY (52%); JOHN F KENNEDY (52%); 



545 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 15, Column 2; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Review/Art;
A Show in Minneapolis Offers History Behind Designs

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS

 BODY:
One of the most ambitious exhibitions in recent months is ''The American Craftsman and the European Tradition'' at the Minneapolis Institute of Arts.
Although ostensibly a display of American and European furniture, silver, glass and ceramics from 1620 to 1820, it is much more. Differences between one chest of drawers and another are not demonstrated simply to document shifts in taste over two centuries, but to support the broader theme that is the real purpose of this exhibition.
Organized by Francis J. Puig, a former curator at the museum, and by Michael Conforti, its chief curator, ''American Craftsman'' aims to show that contrary to what many scholars and other experts in the decorative arts have long maintained, American design did not develop independently from Europe but evolved very much out of European sources. 
Whether it was a chest from New Mexico that owed its patterning to Spanish precedents or a commode from the upper Mississippi River Valley that copied French models, American decorative arts depended on styles exported to the colonies by European artisans and their followers.
Which styles were preferred by the colonists, whether they were up to the minute with the latest fashions in London or whether they reflected the tastes of a previous generation, are among the questions the exhibition sets out to address. And the answers, in turn, provide fodder for bigger topics.
Similarities between American and British glassware, for example, become part of a discussion about the political and economic forces brought to bear on the colonists by the Townshend Acts of 1767, under which the British imposed a heavy tax on the importation of such materials as glass, lead and paint. American glass manufacturing thrived as a result of those taxes, with manufacturers like H. W. Stiegel in Pennsylvania campaigning to ''Buy American'' and producing sugar bowls, goblets and other objects in English styles to accommodate the tastes of buyers who would not pay increased taxes for imports.
In the case of cabinetry from Connecticut, research on the economics of that state is used to demonstrate that the rise of a nouveau riche population, which profited from the sale of agricultural and other goods to the Revolutionary Armies, explains a surge in the production of elaborate desks and chairs and other furniture.
''The American Craftsman,'' in other words, concerns itself as much with American social history as with the history of decorative arts. It includes more than 100 objects drawn from public and private collections across the country and in Europe. The works have been divided into 11 sections. There are sections not only on the decorative arts in New Mexico and the Mississippi River Valley but also on silver from Boston, furniture from Philadelphia, Baltimore and Connecticut and porcelain and glassware from Pennsylvania.
Everywhere, American works have been juxtaposed with related objects from France, Spain, Germany, England or the Netherlands, and, because so much of the furniture is unsigned, every effort has been made to identify specific artisans and workshops. Altogether, a great deal of ground is covered by ''American Craftsman,'' and the opinions and research of more than a dozen scholars can be found in the catalogue.
There are, it must be said, parts of the exhibition that suffer from a kind of pedantry characteristic of such social-history shows. A good proportion of the exhibition depends on arguments made in the catalogue that are otherwise impossible to derive from simply looking at the objects. Unusually lengthy wall labels, including an introduction and conclusion, serve at once as an aid and a burden for the viewer.
Still, there are a good number of objects that can be appreciated entirely on their own. It would be difficult to find a more fantastical piece of 18th-century sculpture than the Masonic master's chair from Williamsburg, Va., with its symbol-laden backrest made of masons' tools and decorated with a crescent moon and gilded sun.
From New Mexico there is a rough-hewn chest on four legs, adorned with geometric patterns, that has a monumentality all out of proportion to its modest size. For boldness of design, there is nothing quite like the serpentine chest on cabinet from Baltimore, which mixes diamonds and ovals to create an extraordinary abstract facade. And for sheer elegance of execution, there are few objects to equal a high chest of drawers from Philadelphia topped with an elaborately carved bust of a woman, at one time thought to be Mme. Pompadour.
Scholars will obviously have much to ponder and debate in ''American Craftsman.'' But even those who may not know what distinguishes an armoire from a commode will find something to mull over here.
''The American Craftsman and the European Tradition'' remains at the Minneapolis Institute of Arts through December, and can be seen at the Carnegie Institute in Pittsburgh from April 14 to June 10. The show is supported by the National Endowment for the Humanities.

GRAPHIC: An 18th-century Masonic master's chair is in the exhibition ''American Craftsman and the European Tradition''; An H. W. Stiegel lead-glass covered goblet from the 1770's is also in the show at the Minneapolis Institute of Arts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); ENGLAND (79%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: MINNEAPOLIS INSTITUTE OF ARTS

SUBJECT: ANTIQUES; SHOWS (EXHIBITS); REVIEWS VISUAL ARTS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); HISTORY (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); GLASS MFG (77%); TAX INCREASES (69%); FASHION & APPAREL (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); 

PERSON: KIMMELMAN, MICHAEL



546 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 18, Column 6; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Review/Film;
Surveying What's Left When G.M. Leaves Town

 BODY:
''Roger and Me'' was shown as part of the recent New York Film Festival. Following are excerpts from Vincent Canby's review, which appeared in The New York Times on Sept. 27, 1989. The film opens today at Cinema Third Avenue, at 60th Street.
 
America has an irrepressible new humorist in the tradition of Mark Twain and Artemus Ward. He is Michael Moore, the writer, producer and director of the rude and rollicking new documentary feature ''Roger and Me.''
Mr. Moore's frontier is his hometown, Flint, Mich., population 150,000, the birthplace of General Motors. As a result of the closing of various G.M. plants and the elimination of 40,000 jobs, Flint has become one of the more embarrassing eyesores in the landscape of what is supposed to be a booming American economy.
All sorts of attempts have been made to save Flint. ''Just when things were beginning to look bleak,'' Mr. Moore recalls on the soundtrack, ''Ronald Reagan arrived in Flint and took 12 workers out for a pizza.'' Somebody walked off with the pizzeria's cash register, though it's unclear whether the two events were connected.
When Money magazine named Flint ''the worst place to live in America,'' ABC planned to devote an entire ''Nightline'' show to the subject. The program was canceled at the last minute. The television power truck had been stolen.
Depressing figures and nutty anecdotes bubble out of ''Roger and Me'' nonstop, leaving the frequently appalled audience roaring with laughter, the kind of response that Twain would cherish.
The film takes its title from Mr. Moore's attempts to reach Roger B. Smith, the G.M. chairman. Mr. Moore's plan is to take Mr. Smith on a tour of Flint and to persuade him of G.M.'s responsibility in attending to the problems of the unemployed. A modest goal, it seems, though Mr. Moore knows as well as anybody that it's not a goal that stands any chance of being achieved. It is, however, a wonderful premise for an angry, biased, witty movie.
The portly, beady-eyed Mr. Moore, as sharp and sophisticated a documentary film maker as has come on the scene in years, manifests a down-home wonder at the world's idiocies. With a toothpick stuck in the corner of his mouth, wearing a down jacket, jeans and the sort of cap that should have the name of a feedlot on it, he stalks the G.M. chairman in the assorted sanctuaries of the seriously rich and powerful.
To save their city after the G.M. pullout, the Flint city fathers approve a series of schemes that sound as if they'd come out of the head of Evelyn Waugh, reborn as a Flint booster. They spend $13 million to build a Hyatt Regency Hotel and $100 million or so more for a theme park called AutoWorld, both of which quickly go broke. They attempt to boost morale by bringing in Pat Boone and Anita Bryant to perform for the tired masses. The Rev. Robert Schuller, the television evangelist, is paid a reported $20,000 to tell his audience, ''You can turn your hurt into a halo.''
Mr. Moore is clearly someone who believes that poverty and corporate neglect are sins, and he doesn't pull his punches. He doesn't appeal to easy sentiment. He demolishes the television personality Bob Eubanks, of ''The Newlywed Game,'' just by letting him talk on and on.
Mr. Moore makes no attempt to be fair. Playing fair is for college football. In social criticism, anything goes, as it goes triumphantly in ''Roger and Me.''

GRAPHIC: Michael Moore, whose film, ''Roger and Me,'' opens today at Cinema Third Avenue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ROGER AND ME (MOVIE); NEW YORK FILM FESTIVAL

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (91%); 

CITY: FLINT, MI, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS FILM (92%); FESTIVALS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); WRITERS (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); RESTAURANTS (66%); 

PERSON: CANBY, VINCENT RONALD REAGAN (55%); 



547 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 25, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
History and Memories of the Fight for Civil Rights

BYLINE: By HERBERT MITGANG

 BODY:

Freedom Bound
A History of America's Civil Rights Movement
By Robert Weisbrot
350 pages. Illustrated. W. W. Norton. $21.95.
 
Voices of Freedom
By Henry Hampton and Steve Fayer with Sarah Flynn
692 pages. Illustrated. Bantam Books. $25.95.
Several strong impressions emerge from a reading of ''Freedom Bound,'' an authoritative and clearly written history of the modern civil rights movement by Prof. Robert Weisbrot of Colby College. These impressions are confirmed by hundreds of interviews that appear in another work on the same theme, ''Voices of Freedom,'' an oral history assembled by Henry Hampton and Steve Fayer, the producer and the writer of the public broadcasting series ''Eyes on the Prize.'' The evidence in both valuable books leaves one with these conclusions:
First, only a rainbow alliance of white liberals and black advocates enabled the movement to flourish and caused civil rights legislation to pass; second, even those Presidents who professed sympathy with the plight of minorities did not take action unless it was politically prudent to do so; third, equality under the law, standing alone, does not necessarily lead to equality of opportunity in modern American society. 
Professor Weisbrot makes this telling point: ''A basic assumption of liberalism in the 1960's was that equal protection of constitutional rights would afford all Americans, regardless of color, an equal chance to amass wealth, influence and stature. Yet civil rights laws alone could not overcome the effects of past discrimination and lingering prejudice, nor did these laws substantially alter the economic system that had long permitted vast disparities of wealth and privilege, to the disadvantage of most blacks.''
The continuing demand for economic equality did not persuade a sufficient number of liberal reformers in public office to press ahead with the same zeal that they had done for civil rights, according to the case histories in ''Freedom Bound.'' These reformers maintained that the social order was already basically sound and that merit, rather than race or class, determined a person's chances in life. However, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and other black leaders sought to stretch the liberal vision beyond endorsement of limited welfare programs to an insistence on freedom from poverty as a basic civil right.
The outspoken interviews in ''Voices of Freedom'' cover events that already begin to fade into history: the Montgomery bus boycott; student sit-ins in Nashville; James Meredith's entry into the University of Mississippi; the March on Washington; the Mississippi freedom summer; bombings of black churches; Dr. King's controversial pairing of civil rights with his stand against the Vietnam War; Attica and prisoners' rights; busing in Boston, and affirmative action in Atlanta.
The tales of individual sacrifice in ''Freedom Bound'' and ''Voices of Freedom'' recall how the civil rights movement led to limited progress. It is doubtful if many of the current officials, including the one black justice on the United States Supreme Court, Thurgood Marshall, would have achieved their high elective and appointive positions had not some brave souls once moved defiantly from the back of the bus, sat down at segregated lunch counters, or been killed by racists in Mississippi. Later, blacks and whites assembled by the hundreds of thousands in peaceful demonstrations in Washington, awakening the Federal Government to recognize civil rights.
In this respect, ''Freedom Bound'' notes, the civil rights achievements of the 1960's were in retreat during the 1980's. The Kennedy and Johnson wars against poverty turned into mere skirmishes. Even hard-won civil rights laws were placed in jeopardy during President Reagan's tenure, of which Professor Weisbrot writes:
''The Justice Department filed suit against busing and affirmative action programs as unsound paths to the goal of racial equality. More discreetly the Administration scrutinized and rejected virtually all other paths as well. Jimmy Carter had proposed regulations to implement the neglected open-housing law of 1968; Reagan withdrew the guidelines. His first Attorney General, William French Smith, sought to dilute the Voting Rights Act by requiring proof of intent to discriminate beyond clear circumstantial evidence of black exclusion.'' While Congress protected civil rights laws, ''Reagan effectively pared the agencies responsible for enforcement.''
Where does the civil rights movement now stand? On the political level, there are great changes. A number of black officials sit in city halls, statehouses and in Congress; a black, Jesse Jackson, became the first serious Presidential candidate. Dr. King's birthday, Jan. 15, is a national holiday - a symbol of recognition for the minister who led the civil rights struggle in the front lines, where he was beaten and jailed, reached the mountaintop of inspiring oratory, and was finally assassinated.
Where is the movement going? In ''Voices of Freedom,'' Marian Wright Edelman, the respected civil rights lawyer who founded the Children's Defense Fund, sees a ray of hope:
''One has to remember the seasons, that in the barest points of winter, one really does have to remember that leaves and buds are beginning to blossom now in a new recognition by the country that it is in deep trouble. That the messages of Martin 20 years ago are the messages that we have still got to answer today. But I think, paradoxically, the Reagan years, which have been very hard years, with assaults on the national role on protecting the poor and minority groups, have set the stage for the 1990's, because this country will have to confront the issues of investing in its children and families if it is going to preserve the future.''

GRAPHIC: Robert Weisbrot

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: FREEDOM BOUND (BOOK); VOICES OF FREEDOM (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS; REVIEWS CIVIL RIGHTS (95%); BOOK REVIEWS (93%); EQUAL PROTECTION (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); HISTORY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (79%); LEGISLATION (77%); WRITERS (72%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (72%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (69%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (69%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (63%); BOMBINGS (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); VIETNAM WAR (60%); 

PERSON: MITGANG, HERBERT; WEISBROT, ROBERT; HAMPTON, HENRY; FAYER, STEVE; FLYNN, SARAH MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); 



548 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Big Slide in Housing Prices Is Latest Worry on Wall St.

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Once again, the ''wealth effect'' is bothering Wall Street. This time, the worriers may be on to something.
The wealth effect refers to the way consumers step up purchases if they feel richer, and cut back if they feel poorer. Two years ago, it was widely bandied about as a reason for a recession, as investors scaled back purchases in the aftermath of the October 1987 stock market crash. 
That recession never happened. Stocks, however much attention they get, are not a major asset for most consumers, and the crash that devastated Wall Street went all but unnoticed on Main Street.
But the family home is the biggest asset for the vast majority of Americans. Now, with the latest round of bank write-offs providing evidence that the real estate market is weakening, talk of the wealth effect is back. Confronted by signs that the house may not be worth what they paid for it a couple of years ago, Americans may pull back.
Those fears contributed to the sharp market decline on Monday, when the Dow Jones industrial average fell 42 points, or 1.5 percent, and to the continued selloff early yesterday, before prices of large stocks rebounded to close with narrow losses. But prices of many smaller stocks continued to slide, and the Nasdaq composite fell 1.68, to 434.35, its lowest level since May 11.
Even before the Bank of New England's write-offs and quest for a buyer set off the new fears, there were signs of trouble. ''It's not just New England,'' said Charles Clough, chief investment strategist at Merrill Lynch. ''We see signs of credit distress in the Southeastern area, up to the Mid-Atlantic and now into the upper Midwest. We've seen a sharp falloff in loan growth in those areas, which is usually a leading indicator of problems.''
Just how much impact the wealth effect can have is a subject of some controversy, but even those who think most highly of it contend that consumer incomes play a bigger role than asset values in determining spending patterns.
Those incomes have held up well this year, but there are a few disturbing signs. New claims for unemployment insurance rose sharply in the latest week reported, and yesterday the Commerce Department said real incomes for Americans fell seven-tenths of 1 percent in November. Both data series are volatile, but the new figures do not increase confidence in the state of the economy.
Even without the fear of consumers pulling back, there was growing concern on Wall Street of a profitless prosperity, in which the economy avoids recession but companies find it difficult to make money. That seems to be happening in the retail field, where consumers have been quite willing to buy at department stores, but earnings have vanished.
Last week's Government report on November retail sales showed they were up a quite respectable eight-tenths of 1 percent. One of the biggest gains was in apparel sales, up a strong 2.4 percent. Apparel is the big seller at department stores, and that kind of performance would, in other years, have investors celebrating.
So why aren't they? ''I think retail sales are being stimulated dramatically by markdowns,'' said Stefan Abrams, the chief investment strategist at Kidder, Peabody. ''Those, of course, are horrendous for profits.''
The consensus view on Wall Street now is that corporate profits will be down in 1990. The disputes concern the size of the fall, just how long the downturn will last and, most important, whether interest rates will fall sharply. Mr. Abrams and Mr. Clough both said rates will fall rapidly as lending remains slow, and said that could offset the impact of lower earnings.
That effect, however, could be slow in coming. For now, recession fears are on the rise on Wall Street. Unless and until they subside, share prices could be under continued pressure.
 
Mixed Signals on Xtra
When a news service runs an inaccurate report, is it permissible for someone who knows it is inaccurate to trade in the stock?
That is the question the Xtra Corporation is raising about the trading of Robert Gintel, a money manager and broker, who is waging a bitter proxy fight in opposition to management of Xtra, a trucking company.
The events in question took place on Friday, Aug. 11, when Mr. Gintel, the chairman of Gintel & Company of Greenwich, Conn., told the Dow Jones Professional Investor Report that he had handled a block of 534,600 Xtra shares - more than 8 percent of the company - sold that morning at $30.25 a share. The news service quoted him as saying there was just one buyer and it was someone who already owned at least 5 percent.
Mr. Gintel subsequently informed the Dow that the report was in error, because there were two buyers, with him being the other one. That correction moved on the Professional Investor Report at 3:11 P.M., but did not make it to the more widely available Dow Jones news service until after the close of trading.
With visions of takeovers dancing, the price of Xtra stock rose to a high of $34, and that afternoon Mr. Gintel, acting as manager of two mutual funds, sold 170,000 shares. It seems clear that at least half of those trades were made before the corrected report was printed.
The timing of those sales was good. The share price fell back to $32.875 the following Monday, in part on reaction to the revised report on the buyers. Xtra has been weak since, closing at $25.625 yesterday, down 37.5 cents.
In a suit filed in Federal court in Boston late Monday, Xtra said the trading, which it called stock manipulation, was illegal because the undistributed correction was material information. Mr. Gintel's lawyer, Dennis Block of Weil Gotshal & Manges, called the Xtra allegations ''untrue and scurrilous,'' but declined to comment further.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (90%); MER (NYSE) (90%); 8675 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BANK OF NEW ENGLAND CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: HOUSING; STOCKS AND BONDS; PRICES; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME REAL ESTATE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); BONDS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); RETAILERS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (71%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); RETAIL SALES (63%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD



549 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Mosbacher Backs Soviet Fiber-Optic Cable

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 19

 BODY:
Demonstrating a new American flexibility regarding high-technology exports to the Eastern bloc, Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher said today that a deal in which an American company would help lay a fiber-optic communications cable across the Soviet Union could go ahead if certain conditions were met.
Mr. Mosbacher, whose department shares jurisdiction with the Pentagon in approving export licenses, said that if the project involved the latest, most sophisticated technology, ''it's a little premature,'' but if the technology was older - he cited 5 to 10 years - the deal might be approved.
The Soviet customers would be getting ''not a backward system, just not as much of a future system,'' he said at a breakfast with reporters.
American commercial interests will also benefit if the proposed fiber-optic link is established, but because it could be used for military communications as well, the United States is wary about allowing too modern a system to be installed. 
The remarks represent the first public discussion by an Administration official of an ambitious proposal that U S West Inc. has tentatively worked out with the Soviet Union and seven other international telephone companies that have headquarters overseas. The companies would lay fiber-optic links to carry international calls and computer data between Europe and Japan.
The proposal is seen as a test of the extent - if any - to which the United States and its allies in Cocom, the 17-nation export review agency, will relax controls over high-tech exports in the wake of the changes in Eastern Europe. Because of its applicability to military purposes, fiber-optic technology is now embargoed by Cocom.
Mr. Mosbacher's remarks were consistent with those of other Administration officials, who in light of new political relationships have called for re-examination of the 40-year embargo on exports of high technology to the East.
 
'Take a New Look'
Lawrence S. Eagleburger, Deputy Secretary of State, said on Nov. 30, ''We and our Cocom partners want to signal our clear willingness to respond constructively to the democratization under way in Eastern Europe.'' And on Saturday President Bush said, ''It's timely to take a new look at some of the commercial constraints.''
Mr. Mosbacher said that Poland and Hungary, which have moved toward democracy, would be early beneficiaries of the more relaxed policies.
Cocom, the Paris-based Coordinating Committee on Multilateral Export Controls, consists of NATO members plus Australia and Japan.
Because the United States has traditionally been the most cautious member of the organization, the position eventually taken by the Bush Administration will largely influence the final Cocom decision.
Richard J. Callahan, executive vice president at U S West, the Denver-based former Bell company, declined to comment on Mr. Mosbacher's remarks. He said the company had yet to work out its final proposals for the export review process.
 
'Encouraging' Statement
But Joseph T. Tragert, an economist at PlanEcon Research Associates, which studies Soviet and East European economic developments, found the Mosbacher statement ''very encouraging.''
''He's laying the groundwork for doing these things high tech-wise,'' Mr. Tragert said, ''while still not hurting our security interests.''
U S West, which has been negotiating with the Soviet Union since late 1988, expects to submit its formal application next month.
Sharp debate between the Commerce Department and the Pentagon could still lie ahead. Frank J. Gaffney Jr., a former Pentagon official who is now director of the Center for Security Policy, a Washington research institute, said installation of such a network would enhance the strategic command, control and communications capabilities of the Soviet military.
He also said such a network would make it more difficult for American intelligence to monitor Soviet communications, which it does to assess leadership intentions, status of military forces and any preparations for conflict.
 
Carrying More Information
Optical fibers are hair-thin strands of glass that carry conversations and computer data on beams of laser light. Because the laser beams can be focused so narrowly, the glass fibers can carry far more information than conventional copper wires.
One of the issues is the electronic equipment that goes with the fiber cable, which determines the speed of transmission. U S West is expected to propose 565 megabits - that 565 million bits of information could be processed each second.
That transmission speed, technology experts here said, is two generations behind the latest technology, which allows 1.7 gigabits, or 1.7 billion bits, of information to be processed each second.
U S West is also seeking Cocom approval to construct a cellular telephone system in Hungary. One of the main issues is the kind of switches that would be part of the system.
Hungary wants the latest digital switches, in which computers locate and use the open circuits in a telephone line, instead of older electrical-mechanical or analog switches.
Mr. Mosbacher said he would oppose the digital switches because ''they are really like supercomputers.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: USW (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); POLAND (79%); HUNGARY (74%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (58%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

COMPANY: U S WEST INC (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: COMMUNICATIONS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; FIBER OPTICS FIBER OPTICS (92%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); EXPORT CONTROLS (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); APPROVALS (76%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: MOSBACHER, ROBERT A SR (SEC); FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 



550 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Prices Up By 0.4%

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 19

 BODY:
The Consumer Price Index rose by four-tenths of 1 percent in November, as food and shelter grew more costly while energy prices edged down, the Labor Department said today.
The increase, which was a bit more than expected, was believed to have been of some concern to those participating in an important Federal Reserve strategy meeting today.
With the economy generally seen as sluggish, the Fed has allowed interest rates to decline slightly, but an inflation signal viewed as too strong could give the Fed pause in easing further. The dominant view among economists, however, was that the rise in inflation last month was not high enough to prevent the Fed from easing credit some more in coming days or weeks. 
 
Pressure on Credit Markets
Still, the Fed, whose Open Market Committee completed two days of meetings today, did not enter the credit markets, disappointing those who had hoped for an immediate move toward lower interest rates. As a result, traders said, the markets for Government securities, particularly short-term instruments, were under pressure. [Page D16.] Major parts of the economy, including automotive and other manufacturing sectors, are in the doldrums, economists noted. The housing market is also in a downturn, with the Government reporting today that housing starts dropped by 4.7 percent last month. [Page D8.] And last Friday's Government report on prices received by producers showed small declines at both the finished goods and intermediate goods levels, indicating that down the road consumer prices should follow suit.
 
Hints by Administration
''Inflation remains under control,'' Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman, said today, with recent results holding ''some promise'' of lower interest rates. The Bush Administration has throughout the year been dropping hints that it would like to see the Fed become somewhat more accommodative in supplying the banking system with credit.
After the White House comment, the stock market, which had been off significantly in the first few hours of trading, bounced back on what traders said was new hope for lower interest rates. [Page D10.] Nevertheless, today's report on prices was at least mildly troubling, with service prices rising six-tenths of 1 percent and energy unlikely to act as a brake on prices in coming months. The late-autumn weather has been exceptionally cold in various parts of the country.
Robert G. Dederick, chief economist for the Northern Trust Company in Chicago, called today's report ''a little dose of reality for those who thought inflation was being rapidly curtailed.'' Although commodity price inflation has dwindled to a rate of only nine-tenths of 1 percent in the six months ended in November, from 7.6 percent for the six months ended in May, overall inflation in services during these periods has eased only to a 4.8 percent rate, from 5.1 percent.
Services account for about 55 percent of the consumer price gauge -they are not directly included at all in the producer price indexes - while commodities account for only 45 percent.
Mr. Dederick suggested that the Fed might be disinclined to ease credit immediately after today's report, even if the Federal Open Market Committee had decided at the nonpublic session, one of eight conducted each year, that the economy needed additional stimulus to avoid slipping into a recession.
On Wednesday the Commerce Department will make its second revision of the third quarter's gross national product number and will also revise its initial quarterly figure on corporate profits, which it published last month.
 
Climb in Health Costs
One of the biggest inflationary forces is medical care, which is highly labor intensive. Health costs, which account for 6 percent of the price index, climbed by eight-tenths of 1 percent in November, to bring the increase over the latest 12 months to 8.5 percent. This compared with 4.7 percent for overall consumer inflation in the same period. Hospital and related services were up by 1 percent in November.
Food and beverages, constituting 18 percent of the index, rose by six-tenths of 1 percent last month - as much as September and October combined - as the meat, poultry, fish and egg component turned and dairy products climbed sharply for the third straight month. Fresh vegetables also rose sharply.
A rise of five-tenths of 1 percent in housing - 42 percent of the index -resulted mainly from steep increases in the prices of electricity and natural gas; fuel oil rose at a slower pace than in October.
 
Transportation Rise Slows
In transportation, 17 percent of the index, inflation slowed to two-tenths of 1 percent from seven-tenths, mainly because gasoline prices dropped by 2.1 percent. New cars rose by eight-tenths of 1 percent, but analysts predicted that cars would resume their May-through-September declines because of poor recent sales.
Prices of used cars rose last month by six-tenths of 1 percent, the first increase since February, while finance and insurance costs each jumped by 1 percent.
Clothing prices were little changed last month after posting big increases in September and October, with the introduction of new fall and winter merchandise. Dry cleaning and other apparel services rose sharply. Apparel has the same price index weight as medical care, 6 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart of consumer prices for 1989 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. D8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NORTHERN TRUST CORP (81%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR, DEPARTMENT OF (US)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); INFLATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); HOUSING STARTS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR



551 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
 
The Economy
The Consumer Price Index rose 0.4 percent in November, as food and shelter grew more costly while energy prices edged down, in an increase that was higher than expected. [Page D1.] Housing starts dropped by 4.7 percent last month. [D8.] 
The unusual design of a destructive computer program may have undermined an elaborate extortion attempt. [D8.]
 
International
President Bush waived a Congressional ban on loans to companies that do business with China. [A1.] Commerce Secretary Mosbacher said a deal to help lay a fiber-optic communications cable across the Soviet Union could proceed, provided the latest technology is not used. [D1.]
The European Community and six Western European nations agreed, as expected, to intensify negotiations about setting up a common economic space with minimal trade barriers. [D16.]
Bowing to public pressure, the Canadian Government will lower the rate on its proposed value-added tax to 7 percent. [A6.]
 
 
 
Companies
Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts is prepared to seek Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection for Hillsborough Holdings, the company it formed to acquire Jim Walter last year for $2.4 billion. [D1.]
American Airlines agreed to acquire Eastern's Central and South American routes. [D5.]
Bankers Trust said fourth-quarter earnings would be cut by $90 million after taxes, because of losses on two large loans. [D2.] Bank problems with real estate loans are growing, the Comptroller of the Currency said. [D2.]
TLC Beatrice abandoned a plan to sell a 35 percent stake to the public, citing what it called unfavorable market conditions. [D5.]
A.T.& T. will reduce rates by 1.3 to 2 percent on interstate and international long-distance services. [D5.]
Xerox's $150 million copyright suit against Apple is an important skirmish in a battle to determine whether desktop computers should have a standard ''dashboard.'' News Analysis. [D7.]
I.B.M. introduced a personal computer based on Intel's powerful i486 micoprocessor. [D8.]
Reader's Digest is going public, in a move that will give its shareholders greater liquidity. [D19.]
 
 
 
Markets
Stock prices declined broadly, and the Dow Jones industrial average lost 1.92 points, to close at 2,695.61. [D10.]
Prices of Treasury securities were narrowly mixed in light trading. [D16.] Yields were mostly mixed on C.D.'s and money market accounts for the week ended yesterday. [D22.]
The contract for January delivery of crude oil expired in volatile trading. Prices set contract highs before closing with a sharp decline. [D17.] The dollar finished slightly higher. [D17.]
 
Technology
The race to develop stronger, lighter materials that will make aircraft more sturdy and more fuel-efficient is intensifying. [D6.]
A platform for the North Sea will be built to take account of higher waters that might result from the greenhouse effect. [D6.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
Times have changed at The New Yorker, which has lent its name to a luxury-car road rally and mailed advertising promotions to readers. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D1.]
Evidence that the house may not be worth what it cost may lead to a pullback by investors. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D1.]
Should anyone care if a company's stockholders are Japanese rather than American? Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (83%); KKR (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NORTH SEA (65%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (83%); KKR & CO LP (69%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (52%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); TAX LAW (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); VALUE ADDED TAX (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (72%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (72%); HOUSING STARTS (72%); AIRLINES (71%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (71%); CABLE INDUSTRY (71%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); FIBER OPTICS (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); EXTORTION (56%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (52%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (50%); COPYRIGHT (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 



552 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Foreign Investors: Fifth Column?

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
THE Japanese are coming! The Japanese are coming! warn assorted Congressional Democrats, union leaders and business interests who watch in horror as foreigners - specifically the Japanese - swallow up everything from computer chip makers to the best beaches in Hawaii.
And while the overall impact is still small -Japanese companies own only about 1 percent of the American manufacturing base - they are beginning to make big waves. One domestic industry, automobiles, has been transformed in a mere half-decade by an influx of Japanese manufacturers and Japanese manufacturing techniques. Others may follow: In 1987 and 1988 alone, the assets of Japanese-controlled concerns in this country increased by $100 billion. 
What critics have not offered, however, is a careful analysis of why anyone should care whether the stockholders of the Fortune 500 carry Japanese passports rather than American, or prefer sushi to sirloin. Nor are they are likely to find much comfort from the bluntly titled ''Foreign Direct Investment in the United States'' (Institute for International Economics, $11.95), the first cool-eyed assessment of the question.
For while the authors, Edward Graham of Duke University and Paul Krugman of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, are not entirely sanguine about the growing role of foreign investment, they find no evidence that it is harming American interests. What is more, they argue that Washington regulators already have sufficient power to cope with any plausible threat.
The standard explanation for the recent sharp increase in foreign direct investment is the trade deficit: Americans bought all those Toyotas; foreigners used the proceeds to buy factories in Kentucky and condos in Trump Tower.
Net foreign investment is indeed the mirror image of the American current account deficit. But much of that investment has been indirect, with foreigners parking their unspent dollars in Treasury securities, bank C.D.'s and the stock market. And as Mr. Graham and Mr. Krugman point out, surges in direct investment since the mid-1970's do not correlate with increases in the trade deficit.
Direct investment flows actually fell from 1982 to 1985, years in which the trade deficit went through the roof. And while the trade deficit has stabilized since 1986, direct investment has tripled. A better explanation, the authors suggest, turns on the fact that foreign companies now depend less on cheap labor to hold down costs, and more on technological or managerial efficiency.
Foreign companies could, and often do, exploit these newly gained efficiencies by exporting products to the United States. But trade competitiveness is vulnerable to shifts in exchange rates. And cost advantages can be nullified by protectionist restrictions. So now that Japanese manufacturers do not need bowl-of-rice-a-day labor to undercut rivals, they have every reason to compete directly with facilities in the United States.
It is hard, on first glance, to see how Americans could lose in the process. American consumers get competitively priced products, while American workers get to keep their jobs. And as a bonus, the efficient techniques the foreigners bring with them are likely to trickle down: The lessons from Honda's Ohio plant, one presumes, have not been entirely lost on General Motors.
But some critics charge that foreigners treat their American plants as colonial outposts. The best jobs, research and development facilities and the most sophisticated manufacturing processes stay home.
In fact, say Mr. Graham and Mr. Krugman, foreign companies operating in the United States do not save ''high value'' or ''high compensation'' activities for their domestic plants. Nor do they spend less for research in the United States than their American competitors. The only sticky issue is national defense: America might conceivably become dependent on foreign-owned technology, which could be withheld when it was needed.
But even here, the authors argue, broad restrictions on foreign ownership are hard to justify. As defense technology grows more complicated and the world economy more integrated, some degree of dependence on foreign companies is almost inevitable. The key is to identify truly critical technologies and do what is necessary to insure American access.
In some cases, that might mean mandatory licensing of technology to American companies. More likely, it could mean mandatory production in the United States. Ironically, foreign direct ownership may be part of the solution, rather than part of the problem.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (68%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (55%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); ELECTRONICS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (77%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (75%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); BEACHES (72%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); COMPUTER CHIPS (72%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); PROTECTIONISM (69%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); EXCHANGE RATES (62%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; GRAHAM, EDWARD; KRUGMAN, PAUL PAUL KRUGMAN (71%); 



553 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: Comptroller Asserts Banks Face Growing Realty Woes

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
Robert L. Clarke, the Comptroller of the Currency, said yesterday that bank problems with bad real estate loans were growing but were not yet serious enough to cause losses of the magnitude that led to the collapse of most large Texas banks a few years ago.
Mr. Clarke, the primary regulator of national banks, said at a breakfast meeting with reporters, ''I don't see where we are looking at a systemic problem.''
Although weakness in many real estate markets, particularly in the Northeast, has caused prices of most bank stocks to fall sharply, Mr. Clarke said that not all banks were exposed to great losses from real estate lending. Even among banks facing the greatest losses, he said, ''at this time'' he does not expect a flurry of failures. 
In New England, where declining prices for real estate and slow sales of recently completed projects have caused large losses at many banks, Mr. Clarke said the problem was not so serious as in Texas.
Both Texas and New England have suffered from overbuilding, he said, but Texas was hit by the additional shock of a heavy loss of jobs in the energy industry. That sent tremors through other sectors of the Texas economy, making the decline in real estate markets even more severe.
In New England, Mr. Clarke said, there has been no comparable shock.
 
More Data Collected
As teams of bank examiners visit banks with the largest portfolios of troubled real estate loans, the Comptroller's office is collecting more data than ever before about market conditions. It will use those figures to estimate which banks are most vulnerable to loss and how severe their problems might be.
By using new information about real estate prices, as well as the latest appraisals, Mr. Clarke said bank examiners could be more persuasive when they tell bankers to become more realistic and recognize that the quality of their real estate loans has declined.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; TEXAS

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; REAL ESTATE REAL ESTATE (94%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL; CLARKE, ROBERT L (COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY)



554 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: Bankers Trust's Profit Lower After Bad Loans

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
The Bankers Trust Company, which had escaped the trend among other banks of higher lending losses this year, announced yesterday that its fourth-quarter earnings would be cut by $90 million after taxes, because of losses on two large loans.
The bank declined to comment on the borrowers or the size of its loans, except to say that the larger loan was made to a domestic commodity merchant and the smaller loan was for the restructuring of a British company. During the first nine months of the year, Bankers Trust's delinquent loans declined by $17 million. 
 
Dividend Is Raised
To salve the wounds of investors, and ''demonstrate its confidence in the earning power of the corporation'' Bankers Trust also announced a 12 percent increase in its quarterly common stock dividend to 58.25 cents a share from 52 cents, payable Jan. 25, 1990, to shareholders of record Jan. 4. The banking company raised its common stock dividend by 12 percent a year ago.
Market sources said the smaller loan was to Magnet P.L.C., which Bankers Trust was advising in a leveraged buyout worth about $1 billion. Besides advising Magnet, Bankers Trust led a group of banks that had trouble finding buyers for the $790 million of bank loans that were part of the financing. Besides holding a part of the bank loans estimated at $130 million by The American Banker, a trade publication, sources said Bankers Trust also held subordinated debt in Magnet and stock in the new company.
The Magnet financing ran into trouble this summer when rising interest rates in Britain hurt the housing market and cut sales of Magnet's lumber products and construction supplies. In August, Bankers Trust said it stopped trying to sell portions of Magent's bank loans to other banks.
Analysts were puzzled by the large loss to a commodity merchant, because such loans are typically secured by either raw material or financial instruments whose values are closely monitored. They said the losses suggested either a weakness in lending controls at the bank, or fraud, or both.
''The loss in a loan for a leveraged buy-out raises again the issue of how much risk there is in those type loans,'' said Lawrence W. Cohn, an analyst with Drexel Burnham Lambert, ''I expect that the loss will be an isolated incident and the quality of their portfolio will hold up,'' he said, though the burden of proof is now on the bank.
Mr. Cohn estimated that before yesterday's announcement, Bankers Trust would have earned $155 million to $160 million after taxes in the fourth quarter. The bank said earnings for the fourth quarter, would be reduced by $150 million before tax and $90 million after tax.
The announcement of the lending losses came after the close of stock market trading. Shares of Bankers Trust fell 37.5 cents, to 40.375, on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%); 

COMPANY: BANKERS TRUST CO OF FLORIDA NA (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANKERS TRUST CO

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMMON STOCK (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DIVIDENDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TRENDS (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (71%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (50%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL



555 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Construction of Housing Fell 4.7% in November

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 19

 BODY:
Housing starts dropped by 4.7 percent in November, pulled down by a big drop in multifamily construction.
Some analysts attributed the fall to high apartment vacancy rates, while others said the savings and loan bailout law was restricting loan money available even as many failed savings institutions were going out of business.
The Commerce Department said today that new houses and apartments were built at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.36 million units in November, down from 1.43 million in October. 
 
Building Permits Decline
Total housing starts for the first 11 months of the year were down 6.5 percent from the comparable period of 1988. Applications for building permits, a barometer of future housing activity, edged down by 1.7 percent in November, to an annual rate of 1.33 million, after rising by 2.8 percent in October.
Housing starts had jumped 12.9 percent in October, the sharpest increase since December 1986, after falling by 4.9 percent in September. But the October surge was the result of a 37.9 percent gain in multifamily starts, a rate that analysts agreed was unrealistic. Multifamily starts, which include apartments and condominiums, fell back by 14.4 percent, to 346,000 units, in November.
''The multifamily starts really were unsustainable in view of the high vacancy rates'' brought about by the high level of building in the early 1980's, said David Berson, chief economist for the Federal National Mortgage Association.
 
New Regulations Cited
John A. Tuccillo, chief economist for the National Association of Realtors, suggested that another reason for the decline ''may be the result of the new capital regulations for savings and loans, which make it more difficult for developers to get loans from thrifts for multifamily projects.''
The bailout law passed by Congress last summer requires savings and loan institutions to keep more of their own funds in reserve as a buffer between losses and Federal deposit insurance.
David Seiders, chief economist of the National Association of Home Builders, also pointed to the large number of failures among savings and loan associations, which have historically provided much of the housing construction funds. ''The industry is shrinking and shrinking fast,'' he said. ''Builders are having difficulty getting money. Credit lines are being cut back.''
 
Rise in Overall Trend
Single-family starts edged down by nine-tenths of 1 percent in November, to 1.02 million units, a decline that analysts consider of little significance because of the margin of error in the statistics. These starts had posted a 5.5 percent gain in October.
Richard Peach, deputy chief economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association, said the overall trend of single-family starts from April through September has been rising, largely because of lower mortgage rates.
The South had the steepest decline last month, down 11.3 percent, to 495,000 units, after rising 14.8 percent in October. Starts in the West also fell, down by 5.3 percent, to 375,000 units. Starts increased by 3.7 percent, to 305,000 units, in the Midwest and rose by 3.3 percent, to 295,000 units, in the Northeast.

GRAPHIC: Chart indicating housing construction starts (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (66%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (66%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HOUSING STARTS HOUSING STARTS (94%); CONSTRUCTION (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (92%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (89%); TRENDS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (79%); BUILDING PERMITS (79%); CONDOMINIUMS (79%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%); 



556 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 10, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Decline Broadley; Dow Loses 1.92

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. HYLTON

 BODY:
Stock prices declined broadly yesterday, as investors' worrries about the economy and the real estate market contributed to violent swings in the market.
While the Dow Jones industrial average lost only 1.92 points, to close at 2,695.61, the number of stocks declining on the New York Stock Exchange as a whole outnumbered those advancing by more than 2 to 1, with 1,021 stocks down and 513 up. Volume on the Big Board was a moderate 186.1 million shares, up slightly from 184.8 million on Tuesday.
In the first few hours of trading the Dow declined by nearly 30 points, but it bounced back soon after the White House said the consumer price data released by the Labor Department showed that inflation might be under control, raising hope of lower interest rates. The figures showed consumer prices had increased four-tenths of 1 percent in November from October, or at an annual rate of 4.9 percent. Another Government report showed a 4.7 percent decline in housing starts for the month. 
''The problem with real estate and the banks continued into today's market,'' said Thomas R. Walsh, head of equity trading at the Nikko Securities Company. ''You still have the core of the problems that you've had for a long time. I haven't seen much of a buy side for some time.''
Still, a few issues in the banking and mortgage sectors that suffered significant declines on Monday bounced back yesterday. Federal National Mortgage, known as Fannie Mae, rose 1 3/8, to 32 1/2; Bank of New England gained 1/2, to 8.
Some bank stocks remained weak. Chemical Bank was down 3/8, to 28 7/8; and J.P. Morgan slipped 3/8, to 40 1/4.
 
Move by Citicorp
Citicorp, the parent company of Citibank, moved up 1/8, to 27, after the bank said it was acquiring the merchant credit card processing business of the FCC National Bank. The First Chicago Corporation, parent of FCC, fell 1 1/4, to 34 3/8.
Shares of the Campbell Soup Company were up 4 3/4, to 54 1/2, on renewed takeover speculation because of the dissolution of a Dorrance family voting trust holding 25.6 percent of the company.
Shares of large computer companies gained yesterday. I.B.M. was up 1 1/8, to 94 3/4; Compaq Computer was up 2 1/8, to 80; Digital Equipment advanced 2 1/8, to 84 3/8; Apple Computer moved up 1/4, to 35; Hewlett-Packard advanced 1, to 45 1/2.
Philip Morris, the most actively traded issue on the Big Board, lost 1 1/8. Nearly three million shares changed hands after the company's Kraft General Foods subsidiary said Hershey Foods had agreed to purchase parts of its Ronzoni Foods unit. Hershey moved up 7/8, to 35 1/2. USX moved up 3/4, to 34 7/8, after an announcement by the Federal Trade Commission that it had given the investor Carl C. Icahn permission to buy additional shares of the steel and energy company.
Disney fell 2 5/8, to 123 3/8, as investors took profits from the stock's recent run-ups.
L.A. Gear, a maker of athletic wear, jumped 2 3/8, to 27 5/8, after a favorable analyst's report on the company was released.
Transportation stocks were slightly softer yesterday, with the Dow transportation average losing 1.61 points to finish at 1139.22. UAL, the parent of United Airlines, was the main bright spot. It advanced 4 1/2, to 158 1/2, on continued takeover speculation. AMR, the parent of American Airlines, moved up 2 3/4, to 60.
Broader market indexes showed a general weakening of equity prices. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks fell 1.23, to 342.46, and the New York Stock Exchange composite index lost 0.77 to end the day at 189.40.
On the American Stock Exchange, the market-value index lost 2.91 to end at 367.95.
On the Nasdaq exchange stocks were also weaker.

GRAPHIC: Table of favorite stocks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); CPB (NYSE) (63%); HPQ (NYSE) (61%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (63%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (63%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (58%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); CAMPBELL SOUP CO (63%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (61%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); NIKKO CORDIAL CORP (55%); CHEMICAL BANK (53%); BANK OF NEW ENGLAND CORP (53%); FCC NATIONAL BANK (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE REAL ESTATE (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); MERCHANT BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HOUSING STARTS (69%); CREDIT CARDS (68%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (66%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (62%); 

PERSON: HYLTON, RICHARD D



557 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 16, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Issues Little Changed

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities were narrowly mixed in light trading yesterday. Dealers sold some securities when it became apparent that the Federal Reserve Board was not prepared to ease credit conditions immediately.
The Fed, whose Open Market Committee completed two days of meetings yesterday, refrained from conducting open-market operations.
As a consequence of the Fed's inaction, ''the front end of the market is under a great deal of pressure,'' one trader said, referring to short-term securities. ''We are torn between people's perceptions that the economy is slipping into recession and a Fed which seems to disagree with that analysis.'' 
Economists at MMS International, an economic information and consulting firm, said in its daily commentary that ''the lack of Fed intervention severely reduces the chances of a pre-1990 easing, according to our forecasts.''
 
Adverse Impact on 2-Year Notes
The lack of a signal from the Fed that it wanted interest rates to decline had an adverse impact on the Treasury's auction of $10 billion worth of two-year notes.
The notes, which late Monday were offered on a when-issued basis at a price to yield 7.64 percent, were sold yesterday at an average yield of 7.71 percent. Nevertheless, the rate on the issue was down from the 7.78 percent average yield at the last two-year note sale on Nov. 28.
''There is no question we would have seen more participation by retail customers if the Fed had signaled that rates were coming lower,'' said Peter Bass, a managing director at S. G. Warburg Securities Inc. ''And the fact that the Fed has not eased casts some doubt on who will be bidding on the four-year notes on Wednesday.''
The $8 billion worth of four-year notes to be sold today were offered on a when-issued basis late yesterday at a price to yield 7.68 percent.
 
Banking Company Bonds Tumble
In other developments, fears about troubled real estate loans pounded prices of banking company bonds again yesterday.
''The market for bank paper is in complete disarray,'' one corporate bond trader said. ''Any bank, and especially any regional bank, is just getting destroyed. I have never seen anything like it.''
Banks with well-advertised real estate problems, like the Bank of New England, suffered the most. Late yesterday, for example, a Bank of New England 9 7/8 percent issue due in 1999 traded as low as 66, to yield 17.18 percent.
''Over the last two days, Bank of New England paper has traded down about 22 points,'' the trader said.
New Jersey's Midlantic Banks Inc., recently downgraded by major ratings agencies because of its troubled real estate portfolio, also suffered.
Yesterday Midlantic's 9.20 percent bonds of 1999 traded at a price to yield 11 percent, dealers said. As recently as a week ago, the bonds were offered at a price to yield 9.50 percent.
 
Consumer Price Report Ignored
In the Government markets, however, monitoring the Fed was the key element of yesterday's session, traders said. A report that consumer prices rose by four-tenths of a percentage point last month, slightly higher than anticipated, was largely ignored. So too was a report that housing starts in November fell by 4.7 percent.
As a consequence, prices were little changed in the secondary market for Treasury issues. By late in the day, the 8 1/8 percent bonds of 2019 were offered at a price of 103 10/32, unchanged on the day, to yield 7.83 percent. Among note issues, the 7 7/8 percent 10-year notes were offered at 100 3/4, up 1/32, to yield 7.76 percent. And the 8 percent seven-year notes were offered at 101 5/32, down 1/32, to yield 7.77 percent.
Treasury bill rates inched higher as the possibility of a quick easing in monetary policy by the Fed receded.
In late trading, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.64 percent, up four basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates moved up by a similar amount, to a late offered rate of 6.45 percent.
In the tax-exempt municipal bond market, the State of Illinois sold $110 million worth of tax revenue bonds at competitive bid.
A bid from a group led by the investment banking subsidiary of Citicorp won the issue, which consists of serial and term bonds.
The serial bonds carry maturities from 1990 to 2009, and were reoffered to investors with coupons from 5.80 percent in 1990 to 6.90 percent in 2009.
The term bonds, which mature in 2019, carry a coupon of 7 percent.
The issue is rated Aa by Moody's Investors Service and AAA by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
In the secondary market for municipal bonds, dealers said that prices of most issues rose by an eighth to a quarter of a point in quiet trading.

GRAPHIC: Chart of 2-Year Treasury Notes rates (NYT/Dec. 20, 1989); chart of Treasury yield curve (Source: Technical Data International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (85%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (85%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW ENGLAND CORP (51%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (89%); AUCTIONS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RECESSION (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (64%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



558 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Is Generally Higher But Is Down Against Yen

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar finished slightly higher against most primary currencies yesterday but slipped against the Japanese yen in quiet trading.
Gold prices were narrowly mixed. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery edged up 10 cents an ounce, to $411.90. 
Currency analysts said trading had slowed in recent days as the holidays approached and as traders tried to protect whatever gains they might have made for the year.
''We are in a holiday trading period, and a lot of bank traders are not as active as they had been,'' said James Merrill, the senior international economist for McCarthy, Crisanti & Maffei, a financial services company.
He said the currency markets appeared to be largely unaffected by new Government reports of a decline in housing starts and a slightly larger-than-expected rise in consumer prices last month.
The dollar traders were also wary about making big commitments until they got some indication from a meeting of Federal Reserve Board's Federal Open Market Committee on what course it has charted for monetary policy over the coming weeks.
If the Fed moves to lower interest rates, the dollar could be hurt since falling interest rates cut the returns that foreign investors receive on dollar-denominated investments.
The dollar's decline against the yen yesterday was attributed to speculation that the Bank of Japan may soon raise its key lending rate. Japanese officials denied rumors of an imminent rate increase, but speculation persisted that a rise would eventually be necessary to shore up the yen.
In late New York trading, the dollar had slipped to 143.65 yen, from 143.73 yen late on Monday. The pound weakened, falling to $1.6010 from $1.60685.
Other late-dollar rates in New York, compared with those late on Monday, included: 1.7365 West German marks, up from 1.7210; 1.5565 Swiss francs, up from 1.5410; 5.9275 French francs, up from 5.8800; 1,289.25 Italian lire, up from 1,285.00, and 1.16085 Canadian dollars, up from 1.16075.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); GERMAN MARK (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); HOUSING STARTS (69%); 

PERSON: JAMES INGRAM MERRILL (57%); 



559 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 19, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Disclosing Financial Data, Reader's Digest to Go Public

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
In moves that will give its shareholders greater liquidity and help it avoid potential tax problems, the Reader's Digest Association is going public.
The company, which announced the plan in May, said yesterday in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing that it would sell 25 million shares, or 10 percent of its nonvoting stock, at $18 to $22 each. That would raise at least $450 million.
The prospectus said that the company, based in Pleasantville, N.Y., would not receive any proceeds from the stock sale and that all proceeds would go to shareholders. Using those figures, the nonvoting shares alone could be worth $2.5 billion and the company about $3 billion. 
No voting stock in Reader's Digest is being sold.
 
Stock Held by Trust
The voting stock had been held by a trust of which the DeWitt Wallace-Reader's Digest Fund and the Lila Wallace-Reader's Digest Fund were the primary beneficiaries. The trust has been dissolved, and the voting stock is controlled by the funds.
The funds were established by the Wallaces, who founded the company in 1922. Various charitable institutions benefit from the trust, including the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Lincoln Center and Colonial Williamsburg in Virginia.
The nonvoting stock is held by the funds and the charitable organzations.
Reader's Digest reiterated yesterday that the sale would assure the publication's independence by keeping close control of its voting stock.
 
Holdings Must Be Lowered
Tax laws require that the funds reduce their voting stock holdings to 50 percent by the year 2000, and the company said in its prospectus that it planned to begin doing so. It said it would alter its employee profit-sharing plan to permit annual contributions to the plan of previously unissued voting stock. By the year 2000, the plan will have acquired up to 20 percent of the voting stock.
There was no indication of what would be done with the other 30 percent to comply with tax laws.
The prospectus gave some insight into the economics of one of the country's most private publishing companies. The data reflected the profitability of the company, which includes the magazine, special-interest publications and a book and home-video operation. The combined operations had sales of $1.83 billion in its 1989 fiscal year, which ended on June 30, and net income of $151 million. The previous year, its sales reached $1.7 billion and net income totaled $142 million.
Net income for the company in fiscal 1989 was about 8.3 percent of its sales, and its operating income was 11.3 percent of its sales.
A longtime magazine executive, John Mack Carter, who heads new magazine development for Hearst Magazines, noted that the figures represented about the industry average.
 
Profit Contributions
The prospectus also breaks down the various operation's contributions to profits. Book and home entertainment products constitute the largest component. In fiscal 1989, it had an operating profit of $192 million, on sales of $1.09 billion. Reader's Digest magazine had an operating profit of $61.6 million, on sales of $589.4 million.
At the magazine and the book divisions, operating profits fell in fiscal 1989. Regarding the magazine, the company said the decline was partly because of postal-rate increases, while it said books published by its book division had not been as popular with readers.
After the offering, the company said 119.1 million shares would be outstanding, of which 20 million would be voting and the remaining 99.1 million would be nonvoting common stock.
In the public offering, which will be managed by Lazard Freres & Company and Goldman, Sachs & Company, 21 million shares will be sold in the United States and 4 million abroad.
 
Fifteen Languages
Reader's Digest is published in 15 languages and has a monthly circulation of 29 million. The company also publishes The Family Handyman, Travel Holiday and New Choices for the Best Years, which is aimed at readers over 50 years old.
The prospectus also showed that the largest selling shareholder would be the DeWitt Wallace-Reader's Digest Fund, which owned 17.7 million shares and planned to sell 5.9 million shares. The second-largst seller is the Lila Wallace-Reader's Digest Fund, which owns 11.4 million shares and plans to sell 4.6 million.
The fund for the Metropolitan Museum of Art owns 11.7 million shares and will sell 2.5 million shares, while the fund for the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center will sell 860,000 shares and the Fund for Lincoln Center will sell 2.3 million shares.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RDA (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (90%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: READER'S DIGEST ASSOCIATION INC (94%); READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (90%); HEARST CORP (81%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (55%); MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (55%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: READER'S DIGEST ASSN INC

SUBJECT: STOCKS (CORPORATE) NEWS BRIEFS (92%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COMMON STOCK (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); CHARITIES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (65%); PUBLISHING (64%); CANCER (51%); EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING (50%); 

PERSON: FABRIKANT, GERALDINE DEWITT WALLACE (70%); 



560 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 23, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Herbert Blaize, 71, Grenada Chief Who Won Vote After the Invasion

BYLINE: By GLENN FOWLER

 BODY:
Prime Minister Herbert A. Blaize of Grenada, a longtime political figure in that Caribbean island nation who regained power after United States armed forces invaded to oust a leftist Government there in 1983, died yesterday morning at his official residence. He was 71 years old.
Mr. Blaize, who had suffered from cancer of the prostate for several years, died as he was preparing to leave for a hospital in St. George's, the nation's capital. In recent weeks Mr. Blaize was forced by deteriorating health to cancel most public appearances. On Dec. 5, he attempted to deliver a speech at a political luncheon but was unable to raise his voice and gave up after less than two minutes. 
A staunch admirer of Ronald Reagan, Mr. Blaize led a centrist coalition that won power in an election in 1984 and sought to bring stability and economic progress to Grenada after several years of turbulence that culminated in the killing of Prime Minister Maurice Bishop, a Marxist, in a military coup shortly before the American invasion.
Mr. Blaize was appointed Grenada's Chief Minister in 1960 by British authorities when the country, which now has a population of 85,000, was moving toward independence. He was defeated in a 1961 election by a right-wing rival, Sir Eric Gairy, but returned to office 18 months later when Sir Eric was forced to resign.
 
English Teacher in Aruba
Turned out of office again in 1967, Mr. Blaize remained in the opposition through the granting of complete independence in 1974. He put together the winning coalition in 1984 after the United States, with the cooperation of other Caribbean governments, forcefully intervened.
Born on Carriacou, a small island 30 miles northeast of St. George's, Mr. Blaize spent seven years as a clerk in the colonial civil service after graduating from secondary school. For several years, he worked for an American oil company on the island of Aruba as an English teacher but returned to Carriacou when he was disabled by a severe arthritic condition of the spine.
For a time, Mr. Blaize operated a shop selling soft drinks and beer. In 1964, he took a correspondence course in law that qualified him, after 10 years of study, to practice as a solicitor in Commonwealth countries.
Political foes routinely questioned his physical ability to carry on the duties of office. ''I'm not fooling myself that it's going to be easy,'' he said on the eve of the 1984 election that made him once again Prime Minister. ''It's definitely not going to be a tea party.''
Survivors include his wife, the former Venetia Davidson; a sister, Muriel Noel of Carriacou; three daughters, Norma Blaize, who is Consul-General of Grenada in New York; Val Jerome of Grenada and Marion Fleary, and three sons, Mario, Marvin and Chris Blaize of Brooklyn.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Herbert A. Blaize (Photoreporters, 1985)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GRENADA (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); ARUBA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GRENADA

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); LIBERALISM (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMED FORCES (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); COUPS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); BARRISTERS & SOLICITORS (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); RESIGNATIONS (65%); DISTANCE LEARNING (62%); ARTHRITIS (61%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); SOFT DRINKS (60%); PROSTATE CANCER (57%); PROSTATE DISEASE (57%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (51%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (50%); 

PERSON: BLAIZE, HERBERT A (PRIME MIN); FOWLER, GLENN RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



561 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East;
GORBACHEV WINS VOTE ON ECONOMY

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Dec. 19

 BODY:
The Gorbachev leadership won legislative approval of its revamped economic program today, easily rebuffing a no-confidence vote from a thin weak line of opponents who warned that it amounted to a retreat from the promised reforms of perestroika.
The program, which was upheld by a vote of 1,532 to 419, endorses a slower pace than originally promised for backing away from the centrally controlled state economy. It would delay price reforms and other painful market innovations in an effort to increase supplies in the shops for long-suffering Soviet consumers. 
With the new Congress of People's Deputies subject to the one-party dominance of the Communist political machine, President Mikhail S. Gorbachev was never in danger of losing the vote on his program, which offered a series of immediate economic shifts and free-market promises extending six years into the future.
 
Opposition Considered Surprising
The only surprising element in the debate was that the informal opposition group was emboldened to invoke a Western parliamentary practice and propose a vote of no confidence.
However, the members wered reluctant to do any such thing, and their timidity became clear in a 1,685-to-199 vote expressing confidence. Nonetheless, the opposition was unstinting in inviting the members to claim more of an active role for the new and uncertain national legislature.
Critics proposed amending the economic program, but the majority defeated this move, too, by an 8-to-1 margin.
Deputy Prime Minister Leonid I. Abalkin, a major economic adviser to President Gorbachev, accused the critics of trying to further destabilize the country during the current economic crisis period and termed the vote of confidence a victory of ''reason over emotions.'' Mr. Abalkin recently outlined economic proposals including firmer deadlines for approaching a market economy than those offered in the revised Gorbachev program that was voted on today.
 
Government's Reticence
At the heart of the Government's hesitancy is anxiety and uncertainty about how to make the promised move toward a free-market economy, given its threats of surging inflation and further popular unrest.
The traumatic shift requires letting currency and food prices float at the mercies of competitive forces, with the Government no longer controlling them.
At the recent summit talks with President Bush in Malta, Mr. Bush promised to help Mr. Gorbachev in his hopes of entering the world trade market. The revamped economic plan, announced after the summit talks, was questioned by officials of the Bush Administration, who said that procrastination in market reform could undercut Mr. Bush's pledges.
In scaling back the timetable, Prime Minister Nikolai I. Ryzhkov told the congress that ''if, contrary to objective reason, we should try to introduce full-fledged market relations by 1991, it would bring us to serious socio-economic upheaval, a new stage of galloping inflation, falling production, mass unemployment and aggravation of social tensions.'' Betrayal of Perestroika? Critics denounced the latest plan as a betrayal by Mr. Gorbachev of his promise of economic restructuring by resorting to more of the old five-year planning techniques that made the central economic plan a recipe for failure in the world marketplace.
The latest plan would shift investments from industrial change that Government planners consider the key to change and put those resources into an attempt to stir more and better consumer products from Soviet factories.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); FOOD PRICES (71%); TRENDS (70%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; CLINES, FRANCIS X GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 



562 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Washington Talk;
Congress, Not Bush, Ponders Peace Issue

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 19

 BODY:
Congress is out of session, but Representative Lee H. Hamilton, chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, would not wait until the lawmakers reconvene in January. Today he held his second hearing in two weeks on ''Economic Adjustment After the Cold War.''
Two Senate committees, Budget and Armed Services, have also already held hearings on what has come to be called the ''peace dividend'' - the money that will become available as military spending is reduced because of improved relations with the Soviet Union. And about 10 other committees are lining up witnesses for hearings on the subject early in the new year.
In addition, the issue is likely to be a main topic when the American Economic Association meets in Atlanta next week. 
But, as best as can be learned, no one in the White House or elsewhere in the Bush Administration has been assigned to focus on the issue. No team of specialists has been formed to study how to use the money. No interagency working group has been established. No senior official has asked his professional staff for advice.
Many of the scores of economists in the Treasury and Commerce departments, in the Office of Management and Budget and on the staff of the President's Council of Economic Advisers have their own views, and they will discuss them if they are promised anonymity. But since they do not know what the Administration's policy is or is likely to be, they will not talk for the record.
''We are much too preoccupied with the immediate year to think about five or 10 years out,'' said one such official who has been working night and day on the budget proposals President Bush will send Congress on Jan. 22.
Some of the economists think it is useless to begin planning now for money that will not be on the books for many years. ''I have seen so many stupid results of long-term planning that I have no confidence in it,'' said one official, recalling the predictions of the 1970's that crude oil prices in the 80's would be $60 a barrel - three times what they are now.
But most Government economists believe the Administration will be negligent if it does not begin making plans.
''We know we're going to be wrong,'' said one economist in a senior position. ''We know unknowns will occur. Nonetheless, if you don't think through what the possibilities are, you're liable to have such a narrow focus that you're unable to respond to the possibilities when some of them turn out to be true.''
The top policy makers say the pace of change in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe has been so rapid that they cannot be fairly criticized for not having drawn a blueprint for how to use the peace dividend. Who knows, they ask, whether tensions have been reduced permanently? Who knows by how much military spending can be cut? Who knows when it can be done?
In any event, they say, the $5 billion or $10 billion or even $20 billion that might become available in the next year or two can be used for nothing but reducing the budget deficit. After all, next year alone, $40 billion has to be found to bring the deficit down to the $64 billion target of the budget-balancing law for the fiscal year 1991, which begins Oct. 1.
That kind of thinking seems shortsighted to Representative Hamilton.
''It seems clear that we will soon be faced with major choices about how to employ the peace dividend,'' Mr. Hamilton, an Indiana Democrat, said at the outset of the hearing today. ''Should it be used for deficit reduction, tax cuts, new spending programs or some combination of those purposes? Is this an appropriate occasion for a major reordering of priorities? Will the size of the budgetary savings make a difference in performance of the economy on a national or regional level, and should government policies be modified accordingly?''
Experts disagree on the answers to those questions; Mr. Hamilton says he wants to hear as many as possible before he makes up his own mind.
Indeed, it is the lawmakers who will eventually force the Administration to take a stand. ''Sooner or later, probably in the next month or two, we're going to be called to testify,'' a senior Administration official said. ''We're going to have to have some answers prepared. Before that, we'll sit down and really talk about it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WASHINGTON TALK PAGE (NYT)

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (55%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); COLD WAR (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (60%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (60%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, LEE H (REPR); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E GEORGE W BUSH (77%); 



563 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: Fighting in Panama: The Implications;
War: Bush's Presidential Rite of Passage

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 20

 BODY:
For George Bush, the United States invasion of Panama early this morning constituted a Presidential initiation rite as well as an attempt to achieve specific goals.
For better or for worse, most American leaders since World War II have felt a need to demonstrate their willingness to shed blood to protect or advance what they construe as the national interest. John F. Kennedy in the Cuban missile crisis, Lyndon B. Johnson and Richard M. Nixon in South Vietnam, Gerald R. Ford in the Mayaguez affair, Ronald Reagan in Grenada and Lebanon, and now Mr. Bush in Panama - all of them acted in the belief that the American political culture required them to show the world promptly that they carried big sticks.
Jimmy Carter did not do it until he sought unsuccessfully to rescue American hostages in Iran late in his term, and politicians of both parties still believe that it cost him dear.
For President Bush - a man widely criticized as recently as a month ago for his purported timidity, a man assailed on Capitol Hill and elsewhere for failing to fully support an attempted coup against General Noriega only in October, a man still portrayed in the Doonesbury comic strip as the invisible President - showing his steel had a particular significance. 
 
Achievement and Annoyance
Whatever the other results of this roll of the dice in Panama, it has shown him as a man capable of bold action, especially coming, as it did, on the heels of his Malta summit talks with Mikhail S. Gorbachev and his surprise initiative toward China.
In a narrower sense, Mr. Bush sought to remove a burr from under his saddle in the person of Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega, and he appears to have done that, at least in part.
Even though the Panamanian leader was not immediately captured, kept control of his radio station, could remain at large for months and may have left behind mini-Noriegas with disruptive capacities of their own, he appears to have little capacity now to exercise real power.
''We have cut off the head of that government,'' said Gen. Colin L. Powell, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. ''Yesterday's 'maximum leader' is today's hunted fugitive,'' said Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d. Most experts agreed with their assessments.
Mr. Bush also sought, in Lyndon Johnson's words, to ''protect my people'' - the 35,000 Americans living in Panama, toward whose safety and well-being General Noriega seemed to have grown indifferent. That he also achieved, although some American hostages were apparently taken. But these things have their costs. Last spring, Adm. William J. Crowe Jr., General Powell's predecessor, told a Congressional committee that using military force in a place like Panama could be ''a messy, messy business.'' In the fall, Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney said that direct military intervention would seriously damage United States relations with the other countries of Latin America. Both proved right.
And only last night, Mr. Nixon told a group of senators on Capitol Hill that General Noriega was the sort of man who should be left to fall of his own weight.
 
The Risks Bush Took
Mr. Bush thought otherwise, and he risked many things in acting as he did: the prospect of an American military involvement that may well last for days and weeks, rather than hours, and might end up looking more like Vietnam than like Grenada; the possibility of a long and decidedly unheroic slog through the jungles and mountains of the isthmus in search of General Noriega, if he has indeed taken to the bush -an elephant tracking a gnat; the certainty of a hostile reaction in many Latin American capitals, and the chance that the Soviet Union would take serious umbrage at the American strike, despite the operation's confident code name, ''Operation Just Cause.''
The President issued his orders in the knowledge that he might be confronted, just before Christmas, with the awful spectacle of American soldiers in grim gray body bags being brought home for burial.
Most important of all, perhaps, he knowingly ran the risk that democracy, so often a failure in Panama, would again refuse to take root there, leaving the United States where it has been in the past, looking like an imperialist adjudicator between rivals for power.
''The big question,'' said Ambler Moss, a former United States Ambassador to Panama, now at the University of Miami, ''is whether the people we are backing can start looking and acting like a government, which is the only way this operation will gain any legitimacy and credibility. It's ominous that after 18 hours, they still hadn't raised their heads or even made a broadcast.''
 
The Anti-American Strain
Perhaps because of popular fears that General Noriega might somehow come back, perhaps because of deep-seated distrust of the Colossus of the North as the United States is called in Latin America, there was little early show of support for American intervention in the streets of Panama City or elsewhere.
Guillermo Endara, whom the United States considers the winner of May's Panamanian presidential elections, which General Noriega nullified, was sworn in at midnight Tuesday night as president - but in secret, on an American base, months after the voting.
Secretary Baker argued that the United States incursion had been made to ''assist a democratically elected government,'' and Mr. Bush said that he had acted to restore democracy. But as Robert J. Kurz of the Brookings Institution pointed out, there has not been a democratic government in Panama and Mr. Endara had not functioned for a single hour as the country's head of state.
Indeed, his mandate stems largely from the conclusion of international observers that Mr. Endara would have won, had the ballot results not been tampered with. That verdict was not accepted by the Organization of American States, which permitted a Noriega delegate to continue as Panama's representative pending fresh elections, and the moral claim of the Endara ''government'' has weakened as the months passed.
 
Mexico's Polite Outrage
The Latin American reaction, even from those nations that have led the way in branding General Noriega an outlaw, was furious. Mexico, for example, said that ''fighting international crimes is no excuse for intervention in a sovereign nation.'' Memories of gunboat diplomacy - a phrase used often today in world capitals - run deep.
But United States relations with Latin America have been unusually good in recent years, which may count for something, and recent history suggests that there are ways to heal wounds relatively quickly. One might be a major economic assistance program for Panama in concert with leading Latin nations.
Mr. Moss recalled that American intervention in the Dominican Republic in 1965, during the Johnson Administration, had been ''clumsy at first, like this one.'' But the appointment of Ellsworth Bunker, a highly skilled diplomatic operative, as ambassador, and the injection of large amounts of American money rapodly improved relations between the two governments.
Soviet spokesmen, official and unofficial, were almost as condemnatory as some Latin Americans, and spokesmen in Washington were obviously uncomfortable in trying to explain why the United States praised Moscow for its new policy of nonintervention and then intervened itself.
Georgi A. Arbatov, one of the top Kremlin experts on the United States, struck a nerve when he said that the American action would strengthen ''the Soviet military-industrial complex'' in its contention that Soviet disarmament and reform were serious mistakes in the face of American bellicosity.
 
When All Else Fails
Even if that is correct, the failure of past American policies, in which Mr. Bush had a major hand, had left him with very few alternatives. Negotiations, sanctions, elections, international mediation, veiled military threats, spontaneous coups and an unending flow of superheated proclamations from Washington had all failed to remove or isolate General Noriega.
''The difficulty of dislodging him was grossly underestimated by the officials in charge of formulating the anti-Noriega policy,'' writes Linda Robinson, a senior editor of Foreign Affairs, in the quarterly's winter issue. ''The basic problem is that there is a substantial gap between the ends the United States has defined in Panama and the means it has so far been willing to employ there.''
Unprepared to scale down the objective - getting rid of General Noriega - Mr. Bush finally decided to scale up the means he would authorize.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); PANAMA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); LEBANON (79%); VIET NAM (77%); 

COMPANY: STRIP AS (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PANAMA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY ACTION MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); COUPS (72%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (70%); ARMED FORCES (65%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); APPLE, R W JR GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); DICK CHENEY (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 



564 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International A3-25
American troops gained wide control of Panama. But after installing a new Government sympathetic to Washington they had not achieved a major objective: capturing General Noriega. Page A1
 
News analysis: President Bush has shown he is a man capable of bold action with the Panama initiative. But his action may have big costs for the United States. A1 
 
American military forces in Panama now face a potentially difficult phase of operations in which they must wrest control of Panama city from paramilitary units that have been loyal to General Noriega, Pentagon officials said. A18
 
Military analysis: Intelligence gaps hampered U.S. troops A21
 
Administration cites legal basis for offensive A22
 
Congress generally but cautiously supports the attack A21
 
U.S. denounced by nations touchy about intervention A24
 
The three Panamanians who will lead A22
 
Other related stories on the Panama confrontation A18-25
 
The Communist Party of Lithuania voted to break away from the leadership in Moscow, becoming the first local party group in the history of the Soviet Union to defy the Kremlin by declaring its independence. A1
 
Rumania's recent demonstrations, in which security forces cracked down against tens of thousands of protesters, were the work of ''fascist reactionary groups,'' said Nicolae Ceausescu, the Rumanian leader. A12
 
The Prague Communist Party ousted its leader, and elected as party chairman a former Prime Minister who has emerged as one of the more con-ciliatory leaders in the recent weeks of dramatic upheaval. A14
 
Kohl addresses hopes and fears of German unity A12
 
Polish miners face dethroning in economic overhaul A14
 
Serbian workers hold brief warning strike A13
 
Britain will grant citizenship to a maximum of 50,000 Hong Kong households, the British Government said. The decision will give as many as 225,000 people in Hong Kong the right to settle in Britain. A3
 
Fight in Hong Kong for British status A3
 
South Korean legislator guilty of spying for North Korea A10
 
McDonnell to supply jets to South Korea D1
 
Oil sale disclosure upsets Israeli-Iranian contacts A7
 
Israeli agency for migrants says funds are now critical A5
 
Assad to visit Soviet Union is planning to meet Mubarak A6
 
Pact to end European Community's soybean subsidies D1
 
Namibia reaches agreement on a Western-style charter A8
 
Mandela lives without regrets, his son reports A9
 
Radicals hearten many in Kashmir A11
 
Holy See aims for role as U.N.'s conscience A15
 
National A26-28, B14-18
 
Explanations for the bombings in the South are veering between two scenarios: whether the attacks were tied to hate groups like the Ku Klux Klan or were the work of a lone, frustrated figure. A26
 
A report on hospital death rates for Medicare patients was published by the Government. It included 196 hospitals where deaths exceeded Federal predictions. B14
 
Death rates and type of hospital correlated B14
 
Doubts raised on marrow technique against AIDS virus B18
 
Suicide to donate heart to ill brother is in vain A26
 
Washington Talk: A right-to-die case before the Supreme Court is forcing the Justices to examine their deepest personal beliefs about the nature of life. A28
 
Meese is disputed on aid to contras A27
 
Some small struggling farm towns are beginning to turn to non-farming enterprises to strengthen their local economies. A26
 
Science panel urges delay of new plutonium plants B16
 
New nuclear plant operator got bonuses despite lapses B16
 
Deserted synagogue sets off Boston tug-of-war B14
 
Presque Isle journal: changes on horizon in fields of potatoes A26
 
Jury deliberating in case of 27 who died in bus crash A28
 
Regional B1-13
 
The problems Lee Brown will face when he takes over as New York City's Police Commissioner include rampant drug abuse and street crime, and emergency calls that strain the capacity of the patrol system. B1
 
Brown says his first job is to learn his way around B1
 
Two nominees for deputy chancellor of New York City's schools were approved after an agreement that neither would have any authority over instructional or curriculum matters. B1
 
School accused of victimizing new immigrants B6
 
Recent D'Amato fund-raising events have had as much political as financial significance. The Senator is trying to show that he has not been badly damaged by the Senate ethics panel's look at his ties to H.U.D. B3
 
A trade of New Jersey park land with a developer, to keep a large corporation from leaving the state, has raised questions about the state's guardianship of public property. B1
 
Cuomo is urged to suspend sale of state land B8
 
New York expands plan to rid Hudson of PCB's B4
 
Groups oppose Blue Cross raise in New Jersey B4
 
Father of priest's accuser calls son a chronic liar B3
 
Neediest Cases B7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); PANAMA (94%); HONG KONG (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); ROMANIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NAMIBIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%); GERMANY (74%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); ESPIONAGE (69%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (60%); CITIZENSHIP (52%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



565 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East;
U.S. Ambassador No Longer Keeps His Poles Apart

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WARSAW

 BODY:
It was George Bush's first visit to Poland, and when talk over dinner turned to Solidarity, the Polish leader, Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski, picked at his food and said the banned union no longer existed. It was just a bunch of people that John Davis was always having to dinner.
The time was 1987, Solidarity was still largely underground and the Communist leaders around General Jaruzelski did not dream of letting the outlawed union help drag Poland out of a deep crisis of the economy and the spirit.
Two years later, when Mr. Bush returned as President, Solidarity was restored and its candidates had just swept Poland's freest elections in over four decades. Had he waited a few weeks, he would have seen John Davis's dinner guests forming their own Government, the first in Eastern Europe since World War II not dominated by Communists. 
After reaching the sooty splendor of Warsaw in early 1983, the seasoned, pipe-smoking American diplomat continued practicing the fine art of not mixing his Poles. But last July, at a reception during President Bush's visit, Communists mingled with Solidarity people, former prisoners clinked glasses with their jailers.
 
Smiles and Nods
The result is that Ambassador John R. Davis Jr. now commands attention and respect in Poland. It is no small success. In a recent moment of euphoria, the wife of a Solidarity Government minister not only described him as a brilliant diplomat but numbered him among those she said had worked Poland's remarkable transformation: Lech Walesa, General Jaruzelski, the Pope and John Davis.
Not flamboyant, but a communicator by smiles and nods who asks more questions than he gives answers, Mr. Davis has gained unusual access to all sides in the Polish conflict. The relationship with Solidarity is so relaxed that his wife, Helen, has begun teaching English to Solidarity's freshmen legislators.
The warmth was not always evenly spread. When Poland refused in 1983 to accept a new American Ambassador, President Reagan sent Mr. Davis as charge d'affaires. Mr. Davis, a diplomat with experience in Italy and Australia in addition to two previous tours in Poland, was then director of the State Department's Eastern European office.
Many Poles knew Mr. Davis from the earlier tours in Warsaw, where he and Mrs. Davis, an engaging and energetic woman, and their three children had acquired fluent Polish and made many friends.
 
Outsider's Eye
Government bureaucrats were ordered not to see him, and those who did required permits. But when the Davises invited 100 people to a reception at the residence, a red-brick building on the edge of Warsaw, 140 showed up. On the Fourth of July, Government people had orders to leave a traditional feast when a senior Foreign Ministry official did. Few, however, knew the man. So they stayed on, enjoying the food, drinks and conviviality.
Poles say they appreciate the Ambassador's uncanny feel for their nation.
Janusz Onyszkiewicz, Solidarity's national spokesman, said, ''He somehow managed to reconcile two things that sometimes appear irreconcilable: to keep the eye of the outside observer but also to think the way Poles think.''
Mr. Onyszkiewicz's wife, Johanna, added, ''He has an instinctive grasp, and, of course, politics in Poland is mostly intuitive.''
During the drawn-out Senate confirmation hearings that led to his appointment as Ambassador in 1988, when Warsaw and Washington restored full diplomatic relations, there was talk that Mr. Davis had pressed Lech Walesa into saying American sanctions had served their purpose and should be lifted. Mr. Walesa's assurances ultimately helped prompt the Reagan Administration to dismantle the last of the curbs that had been imposed to protest the imposition of martial law in December 1981.
 
Conduit to All Sides
In the end, Mr. Davis was confirmed, and Solidarity leaders still call the charge absurd.
''John communicates with smiles and a puff of the pipe,'' Mr. Onyszkiewicz said. ''He never told us what to do, but he asked very intelligent questions. Sometimes he asked the questions that showed our tremendous weaknesses. But he always knew his role as someone who was not trying to influence us.''
In time, Ambassador Davis became a conduit to all sides in the conflict - a special circumstance in a country where politics was played out above and below ground with few interconnecting links.
These days, much of his time is spent playing host to American visitors who flock to Warsaw to witness the remarkable transformations. He likes to tell businessmen that those who get in first get the best pickings.
At 62, Ambassador Davis is not thinking of stopping soon, and few Poles wish him to. When it is over, Helen Davis hopes he will write a memoir.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: POLAND (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (87%); ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); SMOKING (72%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (71%); WORLD WAR II (53%); 

PERSON: DAVIS, JOHN R JR (AMB); TAGLIABUE, JOHN GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



566 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Fighting in Panama: The President;
A Transcript of Bush's Address on the Decision to Use Force in Panama

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 20

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of the address by President Bush from the White House at 7 A.M. today, as provided by the Federal News Service, a transcription company:
Fellow citizens, last night I ordered U.S. military forces to Panama.
No President takes such action lightly. This morning, I want to tell you what I did and why I did it.
For nearly two years, the United States, nations of Latin America and the Caribbean have worked together to resolve the crisis in Panama. The goals of the United States have been to safeguard the lives of Americans, to defend democracy in Panama, to combat drug trafficking and to protect the integrity of the Panama Canal Treaty. Many attempts have been made to resolve this crisis through diplomacy and negotiations. All were rejected by the dictator of Panama, Gen. Manuel Noriega, an indicted drug trafficker. Last Friday, Noriega declared his military dictatorship to be in a state of war with the United States and publicly threatened the lives of Americans in Panama. The very next day forces under his command shot and killed an unarmed American serviceman, wounded another, arrested and brutally beat a third American serviceman and then brutally interrogated his wife, threatening her with sexual abuse. That was enough. 
General Noriega's reckless threats and attacks upon Americans in Panama created an eminent danger to the 35,000 American citizens in Panama. As President, I have no higher obligation than to safeguard the lives of American citizens. And that is why I directed our armed force to protect the lives of American citizens in Panama, and to bring General Noriega to justice in the United States. I contacted the bipartisan leadership of Congress last night and informed them of this decision, and after taking this action, I also talked with leaders in Latin America, the Caribbean, and those of other U.S. allies.
 
Lifting of U.S. Sanctions
At this moment, U.S. forces, including forces deployed from the United States last night, are engaged in action in Panama. The United States intends to withdraw the forces newly deployed to Panama as quickly as possible. All forces have conducted themselves courageously and selflessly, and as Commander in Chief, I salute everyone of them and thank them on behalf of our country.
Tragically, some Americans have lost their lives in defense of their fellow citizens, in defense of democracy, and my heart goes out to their families. We also regret and mourn the loss of innocent Panamanians.
The brave Panamanians elected by the people of Panama in the elections last May, President Guillermo Endara and Vice Presidents Calderon and Ford have assumed the rightful leadership of their country. You remember those horrible pictures of newly-elected Vice President Ford covered head to toe with blood, beaten mercilessly by so-called dignity battalions. Well, the United States today recognizes the democratically elected Government of President Endara. I will send our Ambassador back to Panama immediately. Key military objectives have been achieved. Most organized resistance has been eliminated. But the operation is not over yet. General Noriega is in hiding. And nevertheless, yesterday, a dictator ruled Panama, and today, constitutionally-elected govern - elected leaders govern.
I have today directed the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of State to lift the economic sanctions with respect to the democratically elected Government of Panama, and in cooperation with that Government, to take steps to effect an orderly unblocking of Panamanian Government assets in the United States.
 
Reasons for Military Action
I am fully committed to implement the Panama Canal Treaties and turn over the Canal to Panama in the year 2000. The actions we have taken and the cooperation of a new democratic Government in Panama will permit us to honor these commitments. As soon as the new Government recommends a qualified candidate, Panamanian, to be administrator of the canal, as called for in the treaties, I will submit this nominee to the Senate for expedited consideration.
I am committed to strengthening our relationship with the democratic nations in this hemisphere. I will continue to seek solutions to the problems of this region through dialogue and multilateral diplomacy.
I took this action only after reaching the conclusion that every other avenue was closed and the lives of American citizens were in grave danger.
I hope that the people of Panama will put this dark chapter of dictatorship behind them and move forward together as citizens of a democratic Panama with this Government that they themselves have elected.
The United States is eager to work with the Panamanian people in partnership and friendship to rebuild their economy. The Panamanian people want democracy, peace, and the chance for a better life in dignity and freedom. The people of the United States seek only to support them in pursuit of these noble goals.
Thank you very much.

GRAPHIC: Photo of President Bush monitoring events in Panama from the White House with John H. Sununu, right, White House chief of staff, and Brent Scowcroft, national security adviser. (White House photograph via Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); PANAMA (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PANAMA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (74%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (73%); INDICTMENTS (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (69%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (69%); SHOOTINGS (67%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



567 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Fighting in Panama: A New Government;
The 3 Panamanians Who'll Lead Where Noriega Held Sway

 BODY:

Guillermo Endara
Guillermo Endara, a 54-year-old lawyer who was sworn in yesterday as the new President of Panama, was virtually unknown in Panamanian politics until last year, when he emerged as the compromise candidate of a three-party anti-Noriega group called the Civilian Democratic Opposition Alliance.
Like other members of the opposition, Mr. Endara, representing the Authentic Liberal Party, was resolutely anti-Noriega. But he was equally opposed to American military action.
''We are not in accord with military intervention by any country,'' Mr. Endara said last spring, soon after General Noriega nullified the results of the presidential election. ''It will cause more problems than it solves.'' Mr. Endara, a widower known for his amiable manner and ample girth, is believed by many to have defeated the pro-Noriega candidate, Carlos Duque, by a margin of 3 to 1. 
Three days after the May 7 election, Mr. Endara and his two vice-presidential running mates were beaten by paramilitary thugs as they led an opposition motorcade through Panama City. Mr. Endara was hospitalized for a week with head injuries.
Over the summer, with public opposition to General Noriega at a low ebb, Mr. Endara sought to step up the economic pressure by urging Panamanians to delay paying taxes and utility bills, and to boycott the state-controlled lottery and casinos.
Discouraged by the response, Mr. Endara began a two-week hunger strike on Sept. 20, announcing that it was in protest of the National Assembly's appointment of Franciso A. Rodriguez as president. Lying on a hospital bed in the window of a downtown office building, Mr. Endara is believed to have shed at least 30 of his 265 pounds - and stirred many jokes in the process.
Two weeks later, on Oct. 5, hours after the second abortive military coup against General Noriega in two years, armed men ransacked opposition-party headquarters and Mr. Endara fled into hiding, where he remained until yesterday's strike.
 
Ricardo Arias Calderon
For months, Ricardo Arias Calderon, 56, a philosophy professor who became leader of Panama's Christian Democratic Party, was considered Mr. Endara's strongest rival for the opposition nomination for the presidency. But Mr. Arias Calderon, whose sometimes austere personality has been overshadowed by Mr. Endara's warmth, settled for a spot as candidate for first vice president.
But as Panama's political crisis worsened, it was almost invariably Mr. Arias Calderon who stepped forward to articulate the views of the opposition.
He seemed especially presidential in March 1988, when the Government allowed him to return from a brief period of exile and he gave a moving speech to supporters at the airport. ''We have but one objective,'' he said. ''To get rid of Noriega and build reconciliation and democracy in Panama.''
Like his running mates, Mr. Arias Calderon is no stranger to physical violence at the hands of the Panamanian military. In June 1987, as General Noriega found himself faced with a rising wave of street demonstrations and general strikes, Mr. Arias Calderon and his wife were clubbed by the riot police during a demonstration.
Last May 10, he was wounded when paramilitary men attacked the same opposition motorcade in which Mr. Endara was hurt. And in early October, shortly before the unsuccessful military coup, Mr. Arias Calderon and eight companions were detained for 20 hours and questioned about their role in the opposition campaign to convince Panamanians to deprive the Government of tax revenues.
Despite his appreciation for American support against General Noriega, Mr. Arias Calderon made it clear over the years that he had few illusions about the relationship of the United States and the General. ''The chief interest of the Americans here is the security of the Panama Canal,'' he said in June 1986. ''In all these years, they have known exactly what Noriega was doing. But now they are against him because they feel he is a source of instability rather than stability.''
 
Guillermo Ford
Although Guillermo Ford was the junior vice-presidential candidate in May's presidential elections, for a time he eclipsed his two running mates as the country's most recognizable anti-Noriega leader.
For many Panamanians, the 53-year-old Mr. Ford's slashing stump style and brusque manner seemed to project a machismo that contrasted favorably with the cautious approach of other opposition figures, whose defiance of the Noriega regime seemed limited to waving white handkerchiefs, honking corn horns and banging pots.
Yet he made it clear that he had no plans to help lead the opposition into a suicidal charge. ''We're not going to ask our people to confront these monsters,'' Mr. Ford said on May 13, three days after he and his associates were beaten during an opposition motorcade. ''We're not going to take them to the butcher shop.''
For Americans, Mr. Ford's prominence was assured by his command of idiomatic English, his nickname of Billy, and especially by stirring pictures of him taken on May 10. He was shown clad in a shirt soaked with his slain bodyguard's blood, being pummeled by a club-swinging vigilate thug.
At the time of his nomination by the Nationalist Liberal Republican Party, known by its Spanish acronym of Molirena, Mr. Ford, a businessman, was a self-described political novice. But he was so successful at forging a following that many suspected that the motorcade attack might well have been an murder attempt aimed principally at him. Mr. Ford was in the United States at the time of the failed october coup. A day later, he discussed it with President Bush.
''I looked Bush straight in the eye and he told me he'd do whatever it takes to get Noriega out, that nothing has been ruled out,'' Mr. Ford said. ''He said he would not allow a dictator like Noriega to make a fool of the United States and the rest of the world.'' At the time, Mr. Ford said, Mr. Bush did not offer any hint of what he might have in mind.

GRAPHIC: Photos of Ricardo Arias Calderon (Reuters); Guillermo Ford (AP); Guillermo Endara (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PANAMA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LAWYERS (72%); COUPS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); BOYCOTTS (70%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (67%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (66%); HEAD INJURIES (52%); 

PERSON: FORD, GUILLERMO; ARIAS CALDERON, RICARDO; ENDARA, GUILLERMO



568 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Fighting in Panama: The U.S. and Noriega

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 20

 BODY:
For more than two and a half years General Manuel Antonio Noriega enraged, embarrassed and eluded the grasp of two successive Administrations.
The Panamanian military leader was accused of shredding the results of an election last May, making millions through drug deals and money laundering, spying against the United States and slaying his political enemies. President Bush has portrayed him as the bad guy in a pulp crime novel, a Latin American ''narcoterrorist'' corrupting the youth of America.
The general, with his intense nationalism and anti-Americanism, his ambition and shrewdness, came to represent all that the United States found offensive in a leader. He resisted pleas that he relinquish power, rejected promises of safe haven in a third country, spurned threats of United States military intervention, survived intense economic pressure and diplomatic censure and defied indictments on drug-trafficking charges in American courts. In short, General Noriega dared to challenge the image of the United States as a world power. 
 
The End of a Battle
Today's invasion effectively ends a battle between President Bush and General Noriega that dates from last year's American Presidential race. As part of a campaign of psychological warfare against Mr. Bush, General Noriega spread the word that he had ''something on Bush'' that would prevent the United States from moving against Panama.
Mr. Bush also was plagued by speculation that the Reagan Administration knew about General Noriega's involvement in drug trafficking and money laundering for several years and did nothing to stop it. When an embarrassing photo of a 1983 meeting between Mr. Bush and General Noriega in Panama City surfaced last year, Panamanian opposition leaders said that the meeting was to discuss money laundering of drug profits through Panama while Bush aides called it a routine stopover to discuss drug interdiction efforts.
General Noriega was believed to have been on the payroll of the Central Intelligence Agency, and critics of Mr. Bush argued that the President, who was Director of Central Intelligence in 1976, had material that should have prompted him to play a more active role in limiting this country's dealings with the general.
Mr. Bush responded that seven administrations had dealt with General Noriega, an assertion that was confirmed by Government officials at the time. Government officials said that in 1976, when Mr. Bush headed the C.I.A., and General Noriega was Panama's intelligence chief, their paths crossed for the first of several times.
Trained by the United States at the School of the Americas and the head of military intelligence for more than a decade, General Noriega simultaneously cultivated relationships of expediency with the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Colombian drug cartel leaders, with Israel and Libya and Nicaragua. He manipulated his way to the head of the Panama Defense Forces in 1983, becoming the de facto leader of the strategically located country of 2.2 million people.
Successive Administrations were willing to ignore General Noriega's excesses, largely because of his cooperation on matters of intelligence and drug trafficking. In 1985, when Dr. Hugo Spadafora was slain in Panama after he publicly accused General Noriega of drug-trafficking, United States policy remained unchanged, despite reports by American intelligence that connected Dr. Spadafora's death to Panama's Defense Forces.
 
Officer Charges Fraud
The current crisis dates from the summer of 1987, when Col. Roberto Diaz Herrera, the military's second in command, gave details of fraud in the 1984 presidential election and accused General Noriega of drug trafficking. After violent street demonstrations, General Noriega declared a state of emergency, and the United States hinted that Panama would be better off without its leader, a campaign that intensified after he was indicted by two Florida Federal grand juries on drug-trafficking charges.
Relations between the two nations deteriorated further when General Noriega voided the results of the presidential election last May and then sent paramilitary forces into the streets of Panama City, where they beat up opposition candidates.
Another crucial point came last October when a group of Panamanian military officers tried to oust General Noriega. A key element in the coup's failure was a counterattack by a unit loyal to General Noriega, a unit that might have been blocked by a show of force at a bridge across the Panama Canal.
American units were in the area of the bridge and could have secured it. Mr. Bush was harshly criticized for his decision not to do so. The coup leader, Maj. Moises Giroldi Vega, and some of his men were killed. Others were arrested, and the rest fled to the United States.
 
The Final Straw
Last week, in what turned out to be a final blow to Panama-United States relations, General Noriega had himself named head of state and declared his country in a ''''state of war'' against the United States. A day later, an American marine officer died at the hands of the General's Defense Forces. Mr. Bush lost his patience and decided to take military action that in a way reflected General Noriega's own political philosophy, expressed in his 1975 manual on psychological warfare: use ''astuteness before threats or violence,'' but be prepared to ''exterminate'' enemies in a ''cold and calculating way.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of President Bush and Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega in Panamay City in '83 (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); PANAMA (95%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PANAMA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MONEY LAUNDERING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INFORMATION WARFARE (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ESPIONAGE (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); INDICTMENTS (76%); DRUG INTERDICTION (72%); NARCOTERRORISM (72%); CARTELS (72%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (68%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (56%); 

PERSON: NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SCIOLINO, ELAINE GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 



569 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: In Depressed Farm Belt, Cultivating Self-Reliance

BYLINE: By WILLIAM ROBBINS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GREEN CITY, Mo., Dec. 14

 BODY:
Three years after the agricultural economy began slowly and unevenly to struggle out of its deepest recession in half a century, rural America is still freckled with small towns and small farms that the recovery left behind, places like the Green Hills region of northern Missouri.
But the Green Hills had one advantage over most places. It had Jack McCall, a sort of missionary of rural development, who came to the region about 16 years ago with a message that has proved an inspiration.
And now the University of Missouri is ''packaging'' Mr. McCall, so to speak. Last year it published his 43-page ''Small Town Survival Manual,'' and it is now distributing his message around the world. 
 
Allies and Disciples
The book, Mr. McCall says, is a distillation of the education he has gained as a University of Missouri Extension Service specialist, dealing with the towns and people of the Green Hills who helped him fight back against hard times. He has allies like Ellen Dolan and Joy Jackson and disciples like Linda Robinson, Jeannine (Aunt Nene) Williams, Doris and Louis Ayers and the Rev. James Rardin.
Mr. Rardin, a Methodist minister, said:
''Jack said you've got to stop sitting around hoping that some big industry is going to come along and save you. He said you've got to look to your own resources. Well, the resource we had was people.''
Here in the Green Hills, as elsewhere in rural America, many of those people also had ideas for making money not through large-scale agriculture but through small enterprises, many of them making use of farm products, others making use of the farm people's spare time.
 
From Energy and Curiosity
In Mr. Rardin's case, in Green City, a town with a population of about 700, the enterprise also stemmed from the minister's energy and curiosity. In October 1987, he recalls, he began calling companies ''to find out what we could do for them.''
Soon, he says, he had made several deals and was hiring workers from neighboring farms for the new business, ASI, for American Syscomptel Inc. A local variety-store proprietor, Doris Ayers, sold out her inventory, and she and her husband, Louis, invested in ASI and offered their building as an assembly shop.
The new company employs 25 to 45 people, depending on the amount of orders at hand. She now manages the business, whose clients include small telephone companies commissioning the assembling of products ranging from telephone cords and computer cables.
At the nearby village of Trenton, a county seat with a population of 6,800, Ellen Dolan and Joy Jackson are allies, if not exactly disciples, of Mr. McCall.
 
Bringing the Proceeds Back
The company they run aims to help add value to farm products, to sell them around the world and to bring the proceeds back to the farm communities and small towns where most of their clients are based - operations, for example, like the family concern of Alewel's Country Meats of Warrensburg, Mo.
This company, called Amtex, for American Trade Exchange, was formed in 1986, the depth of the farm recession, by Mrs. Dolan, her husband, Gary, and several other farmers and executives.
Experienced guidance was hard to find. ''After all,'' Mrs. Dolan said, ''there aren't many international trading companies in rural America.''
But one of the first responses made the business seem disarmingly simple. Mrs. Dolan wrote to Sam Walton, the founder of Wal-Mart, and asked for a chance to show their offerings. The letter brought an invitation to the company's headquarters in Bentonville, Ark.
Still, it took 18 months to get an order, for oat bran. It was the business's first sale, and the commission carried the owners through many dry months.
 
Local Markets Are Not Enough
They decline to say exactly how much that sale amounted to or how much they have sold since. They will say they represent the products of 50 clients, including specialists in smoked meats, ginseng producers, hatcheries and wineries. They have exhibited their wares at trade shows from Boston to Seattle and have lined up buyers as far away as Singapore and Tokyo.
One of the people helped by both Amtex and Mr. McCall is Jeannine Williams of Aunt Nene's Specialty Foods in nearby Lucerne. She and her husband, Bud, lost their farm, she said, after ''everything that could happen did happen, from hail to floods and drought.''
Mrs. Williams says Mr. McCall was a motivating force. ''He said, 'Look to your own assets and add value,' '' she recalled. ''I decided, 'I'm going to sell some of this stuff I've been giving away.' ''
She got out some old family recipes, had some fancy labels made and began producing jars of pickles and jellies. She now employs five women to help with preserving and pickling, although the rest is largely a family operation.
 
A Staff of 14 Busy Hands
On a hill on the other side of Lucerne is a farmhouse where another McCall disciple, Linda Robinson, is making a still more ambitious effort. What started as a crafts sideline that her husband, David, said, ''put the food on the table'' is now a booming business. At a shop in her basement - ''The Paintin' Place'' - she employs seven women.
She also employs 24 contractors who have cottage industries of their own supplying a business she calls Forever Friends with such things as molded porcelain heads for clown dolls and carved and painted wall decorations.
''I always remembered what Jack McCall said at that meeting in Unionville,'' she said. ''I remember him saying, 'Above everything else, you've got to have quality.' ''

GRAPHIC: Photo of Mrs. Robinson, a disciple of Mr. McCall, who employs 24 cottage-industry contractors in one of two craft-oriented businesses. (NYT); Jack McCall, whose ''Small Town Survival Manual'' is being distributed throughout the world (NYT); women making crafts at The Paintin' Place (NYT/David Hutson); map of Iowa showing location of Green City (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MISSOURI, UNIVERSITY OF

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREEN HILLS (MO)

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; SMALL BUSINESS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); COUNTIES (73%); TRENDS (70%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (66%); 

PERSON: ROBBINS, WILLIAM; MCCALL, JACK



570 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Presque Isle Journal;
Changes On Horizon In Fields Of Potatoes

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PRESQUE ISLE, Me., Dec. 14

 BODY:
Since World War II, the three-week school vacation known as the potato harvest recess has been a fixture of autumn in northern Maine.
But last month, citing the increasing mechanization of farms and a resulting decline in the number of children working during the harvest, school officials voted to eliminate the recess beginning in 1991.
Farmers are furious. They say the loss of student workers will ripple through the economy, causing farmers to earn less money because they will plant fewer acres if they cannot depend on help at harvest time. Some go so far as to predict that farmers will go out of business or decide to retire. 
''They've been making us get down on our hands and knees and beg for the recess for the last five years,'' said Scott Smith, who with his brother runs his family's potato farm in Mapleton, just outside Presque Isle. ''But I look at it and I say we're supporting these schools quite heavily, and they're not willing to help us.''
Here in Aroostook County, where the wide rolling fields are covered now with several feet of snow, growing potatoes is big business, bringing in $110 million to 650 farms this year. Potatoes are Maine's biggest cash crop, the Maine Department of Agriculture says. And although the number of acres planted, 80,000 in 1989, has dropped every year since a high of 200,000 in World War II, Maine remains the fifth-largest potato-growing state in the nation, after Idaho, Washington, Wisconsin and Oregon.
Farmers here have come to rely on student help to make sure they get their crop harvested in a short period, a matter of a few weeks from mid-September to early October, between the time the potatoes are big enough to pick and the time the ground freezes. (Schools in northeastern Idaho schedule a recess for the same reason, said John Rooney, the executive director of the Potato Growers of Idaho.) But officials in School Administrative District 1, which covers Presque Isle and four surrounding towns, said that each year the number of students involved in the harvest had decreased. Last fall, about a third of the 700 high school students worked picking, hauling or storing potatoes.
''It used to be the majority, but now we're dealing with the minority,'' said Linda Pelletier, a school board member. ''You see kids hanging around downtown on the streets, in vehicles. They don't have anything to do, and you have to keep teen-agers busy.''
The district had already eliminated the recess for the elementary and middle schools because of a change in Federal law that prohibits anyone younger than 16 from working on a mechanical harvester. Few farmers here, where most farms cover 500 or more acres, pick their crop by hand, Mr. Smith said.
But, he added, farmers still need high school-age workers to work on the harvesters, sorting rocks from potatoes. They work 12 hours a day, seven days a week and are paid $5 to $5.25 an hour. Last fall, five of the 13 people Mr. Smith hired for the harvest were students.
Mr. Smith said finding adult workers is made even more difficult by the shrinking labor pool in Aroostook County, whose population is shrinking as young people move away in search of work.
''We can increase wages all we want to,'' he said, ''but if the workers aren't there, they aren't there.''
Each year, Mr. Smith said, he contacts the local unemployment office but has never had an applicant.
Teachers supported the elimination of the recess, saying it interrupted the school year almost as soon as it began, forcing them to repeat lessons that students have forgotten during the break.
But farmers say teachers have overlooked the benefit to students, who learn the value of hard work.
''That's the problem with most of the youth in the country,'' said Keith Doyen, who hired 13 students last fall to harvest his 900 acres. ''They never learned the value of a dollar and what it takes to earn a living.''
The farmers have formed a committee to encourage the board to reinstate the recess. Mrs. Pelletier said the board wants to help the farmers and might make exceptions for students on a case-by-case basis. But she is not holding out much hope that the board will reverse its decision.
''The whole point is, times have changed,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (97%); IDAHO, USA (93%); 

CITY: AUGUSTA, ME, USA (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AROOSTOOK COUNTY (ME); MAINE

SUBJECT: POTATOES; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS POTATO FARMING (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (77%); CHILD LABOR (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); WEATHER (66%); EXECUTIVES (61%); 



571 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: Suicide to Donate Heart to Brother Is in Vain

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: TAMARAC, Fla., Dec. 20

 BODY:
A man who said in a note that he wanted to donate his heart in an effort to save a brother with heart disease committed suicide outside a hospital Monday night. But the body was found too late, and his heart could not be used for a transplant.
The man, Gerald Olson, drove his van to University Community Hospital in Tamarac on Monday night and parked outside the emergency room, the authorities said Tuesday. Then he put a gun in his mouth and pulled the trigger. 
Ten minutes passed before a nurse on her way home noticed Mr. Olson slumped over the steering wheel. An emergency medical crew administered heart massage, but he died less than an hour later.
The police found suicide notes in the van in which Mr. Olson, who was 46 years old, complained of ''too many downs and no ups for me on this roller-coaster ride of life.'' He wrote that he wanted his heart donated to his 56-year-old brother, Bob, who has been on a waiting list for a heart transplant for nearly three years.
 
'He Thought of Me'
From his home in Belvedere, Ill., Bob Olson, who has cardiomyopathy, which causes an enlarged heart, said: ''It made me feel like someone special. He thought of me in his last thoughts. He wanted somebody benefiting from his death.''
Bob Olson and other relatives said that they realized Jerry Olson did not succeed in life as he might have wished, but added that they had no idea he might be suicidal.
''I think he probably was capable of doing anything he wanted to do,'' Roland Olson, 58, who lives in Rockford, Ill., said of his younger brother. ''If he'd only gone and done it.''
Jerry Olson worked in lounges and sold bar supplies. He was unemployed in recent months. Eight years ago he moved to Tamarac, a South Florida community about 10 miles northwest of Fort Lauderdale, to help a sister after her husband died of a heart attack, Roland Olson said.
 
A Letter to His Daughter
But three weeks ago she asked her brother to move out, said Steve Wiley, a detective in the sheriff's office here.
''She thought it was time for him to stand on his own two feet,'' the detective said, adding that Mr. Olson then lived in his van.
On Sunday he recorded a tape. Mr. Olson, an Elvis Presley fan who named his daughter Lisa Marie, the same as the singer's daughter, sang ''I'll Be Home for Christmas,'' and asked that the song be played at his funeral.
In a letter to his daughter Mr. Olson wrote: ''I'm tired of everyone saying how much talent I've got. Uncle Bob's got everything to live for. And if they find out he can use it and Uncle Bob wants it, I'm going to be his donor, Lisa. I figure I could do more good for him than myself.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); 

CITY: ROCKFORD, IL, USA (70%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: POLICE FOUNDATION (56%); POLICE FOUNDATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TAMARAC (FLA)

SUBJECT: SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS; TRANSPLANTS; HEART HEART DISEASE (91%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); SUICIDE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); ORGAN DONATION (90%); DEATHS (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (78%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (77%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); SHOOTINGS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); SHERIFFS (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); PARAMEDICS (55%); 

PERSON: OLSON, GERALD



572 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: Wheelchair Lifts Increase Bus Ridership

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Wayne J. Smith, executive director of the United Bus Owners of America, tries to paint a picture of a troubled private transit industry that would be devastated if the Americans with disabilities bill, now in the House of Representatives, requires wheelchair lifts on private buses (''Bye, Bye, Bus Industry,'' Op.-Ed, Nov. 30).
Experience speaks otherwise. Denver's Regional Transportation District operates 17 over-the-road coaches between Denver and Boulder, Colo. All those buses are equipped with wheelchair lifts, John Davis, coordinator of the district maintenance reporting systems, told The Disability Rag in November. The lifts cost the district $4,000 to buy and $6,000 to install - far less than the ''$15,000 to $50,000'' that Mr. Smith says lifts cost. According to Mr. Davis, they cost less than $60 a year to maintain. 
But United Bus Owners is opposed to lifts ''even if they were free,'' its spokesman told us.
The private bus industry simply doesn't want to put lifts on buses. It wishes to discriminate and to rationalize it by framing the issue only as alleged economic hardship.
It does not want the public to consider the devastating economic hardship member bus companies inflict on thousands of low-income American wheelchair users who cannot afford private autos but who desire to travel without the assault to their dignity of being unceremoniously carried aboard like a sack of potatoes -a far less dignified treatment even than that once afforded Rosa Parks, with a seat in the back.
It United Bus Owners of America believes that loss of ridership is forcing smaller bus companies out of business, it should consider this: Denver's Regional Transportation District attributes an additional 42,087 boardings in 1988 to the lifts on buses.
Lifts are a one-time cost. Discriminatory denial of dignified access, though, is a psychic cost exacted daily against wheelchair users.
It's time the transit industry stopped fighting the extension of dignity and civil rights to disabled Americans.
 
(Rev) WADE BLANK
MARY JOHNSON
Denver, Dec. 1, 1989
 The writers are, respectively, a leader of American Disabled for Accessible Public Transportation and editor of The Disability Rag.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (RTA) (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISABILITY RAG (PUB); DISABLED FOR ACCESSIBLE PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION, AMERICAN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BUSES; HANDICAPPED; WHEELCHAIRS; LAW AND LEGISLATION WHEELCHAIRS & MOBILITY AIDS (92%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (92%); SPECIAL NEEDS TRANSPORTATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CHARTER BUS INDUSTRY (73%); WRITERS (73%); 

PERSON: BLANK, WADE (REV); JOHNSON, MARY



573 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: FOR NEW POLICE COMMISSIONER, TOWERING CHALLANGES;
Stranger to New York, Brown Says First Act Will Be to 'Reach Out'

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Dec. 20

 BODY:
Police Chief Lee P. Brown, who will take over as New York City's Police Commissioner next month, describes himself as a stranger to New York and says he will not make any major changes in the current system until he learns his way around.
In an interview in his office, surrounded by pictures of the Houston skyline, the chief said he has only visited the city ''a few times, for meetings.''
He said he was not bringing any ''preconceived notions'' to New York, and he asked that the city's officers treat him as he is treating them - with an open mind.
 
'I Am a Natural at This'
It is natural for officers to complain about Mayor-elect David N. Dinkins's choice of an outsider, he said, adding: ''Once I get there I intend to reach out to them. Once I get to meet the people, they'll understand I am a natural at this.'' 
He noted that officers in Houston had a similar negative reaction when he was appointed to the chief's job here almost eight years ago. There is still hostility from the rank and file - ''I Love New York'' signs sprouted in many police offices when his move to New York was announced - and he says that frustrates him. But the issues that divide him and his officers, he said ''are really not issues I can control.'' The main complaint of the city's police unions here is the low pay, which he said is mostly a result of the economic downturn in Houston earlier in the decade.
''I agree with them,'' he said. ''I've been the drum major trying to get more police officers for this city and more pay for the ones we do have. But the money has just not been there.''
He said he had no specific plans for the New York department, but would not just recreate his Houston-based programs. ''I'm not going to try to transfer Houston to New York,'' he said, ''New York's completely different.''
The first thing he will do, he said, is thoroughly evaluate the department. He conducted such a review when he came to Houston and issued a report listing the strengths and weaknesses of the force. Partly as a result of his years in academia and management, he said ''I believe in careful analysis and study before making any major decisions.''
Whatever his findings, he said, one of his priorities is certain to be the city's drug problem. ''I consider narcotics as being the No. 1 problem confronting America,'' he said ''and that is true of New York as well.''
 
Input From the Community
He also said he would try to involve citizens in police work in New York. In Houston, the police are encouraged to identify and solve problems and solicit help from the community, he said, rather than simply respond to emergency calls.
For example, he cited an apartment complex here that was overrun by drug dealers. Residents told an officer that most of the drug sales were made at a pay telephone in the complex, and the officer arranged for the telephone company to change the phone line so that outgoing calls could be made but incoming calls could not be received.
The approach has drawn praise from community groups here, which credit Chief Brown with improving relations between citizens and police.
He said he realized that these programs were a drain on resources, but that such work was worth the sacrifice. ''If you solve the problems for good, you don't have to keep returning to them day after day,'' he said.
 
Criticism From Officers
Chief Brown said he expects to show the same loyalty to Mr. Dinkins as he did to Mayor Kathryn J. Whitmire of Houston. Chief Brown received criticism from police officers for not battling publicly with the Mayor over officer salaries.
''The mayor is the chief executive officer of the city,'' he said. ''We may disagree many times, about many things, but it serves no purpose for me to be out raising questions in public.''
He is not certain whether his program of establishing dozens of police substations around the city would work in New York. The stations were introduced in Houston because the city is spread over 550 square miles, and this plan helped keep small neighborhoods in touch with the police.
For the same reason he is unsure whether he can import the Houston program of single-officer patrol cars. Without that rule, he said, there would not be enough cars to cover all of Houston. New York is more compact, he said, and he would evaluate the advisability of one-man cars.
 
Final Word on Discipline
Though he has opposed the creation of a civilian review board to investigate police misconduct in Houston, he said he supported Mr. Dinkins plan for such a board in New York because it would give the Commissioner the final word on officer discipline.
He said the job of president of the International Association of Chiefs of Police, which he assumes in October of 1990, would not interfere with his duties as chief. His critics in New York have said that the travel required by the job would keep him away from his office for 100 days a year.
''I wouldn't go away for 100 days no matter where I was,'' he said, noting that the group holds quarterly meetings and that, as president, he could arrange for many to be held in New York.
''I certainly understand that New York is a demanding city,'' he said, ''and it demands a lot from its chief.''

GRAPHIC: Lee P. Brown, Police Commissioner-designate, in an interview in Houston (The New York Times/F. Carter Smith)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); TEXAS, USA (95%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: POLICE DEPARTMENT (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POLICE; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES POLICE FORCES (94%); INTERVIEWS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (75%); MAYORS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: BELKIN, LISA; BROWN, LEE P (POLICE CHIEF)



574 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1770 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Gives Up Park Land in Swap With Developer

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

DATELINE: MOUNT OLIVE, N.J., Dec. 20

 BODY:
A deal in which state officials pushed through the sale of state park land to a developer to keep a large corporation from leaving New Jersey has raised questions about the state's guardianship of public property.
On one side is a group of officials, including managers of the state parks, that endorses the deal, in which a 58-acre section of Allamuchy Mountain State Park is being exchanged for nearby land owned by the developer here in the Morris County hills 44 miles west of New York City.
They say the deal has enormous economic importance for the state, because it will prevent the BASF Corporation, the West German chemical manufacturer and conglomerate, from moving its North American headquarters out of New Jersey. On the other side are conservationists, local officials and a legislator who fear New Jersey was taken for a ride, swapping a block of highly desirable land for scattered parcels of wetlands that the developers were unlikely to build on anyway.
At the heart of the complicated transaction is concern that public land is not safe from development as suburban sprawl spreads across the state. The land being sold was bought under the Green Acres program, to preserve open space. 
''What's at stake is the future of public lands,'' the chairman of the Northwest Jersey group of the Sierra Club, Leonard Frank of Hackettstown, said. ''The question that has to be asked is this: Is it appropriate to give away state land for purposes other than what the land was purchased for in the first place?''
The tale begins early last year, when the state's economic engine was beginning to run out of gas. One of the few big businesses still planning to expand was the BASF Corporation, which was renting offices in Parsippany-Troy Hills for its North American headquarters.
BASF has 2,500 employees in 13 locations in New Jersey alone, and it is growing. It wanted to pull together some administrative operations and build a 600,000-square-foot headquarters. Last year the company decided that it would buy 150 acres. Northern New Jersey was preferred. But BASF hired a relocation consultant, and 40 East Coast sites were considered. One prime candidate was the International Trade Center on Interstate 80 here. The center, a 670-acre project begun in the early 80's, contains the New Jersey Foreign Trade Zone, where parts for Seiko watches and BMW automobiles, among other products, are warehoused without customs duty until they are sold.
The center, a joint project by the Rockefeller Group Inc. of New York and a local developer, Leslie Smith, includes 300 acres in its master plan for offices and a hotel.
But the largest piece of developable land not intersected by roads was 100 acres, not the 150 required by BASF. Next to the center, however, is the tip of Allamuchy Mountain State Park, 8,000 acres of woods and hills bought with Green Acres bond money in the 60's. By April 1988 BASF began direct negotiations with the International Trade Center and the state. The director of the State Economic Development Division, Ben A. Ferrara, said the executives wanted assurances that the proposal to take land from the park had the support of the state's highest authority.
On a rainy Wednesday in May, the executives met with Mr. Ferrara and Gov. Thomas H. Kean at Drumthwacket, the 19th-century governor's mansion in Princeton. At the meeting, Mr. Ferrara recounted, Mr. Kean said New Jersey wanted to keep BASF and would do all it could.
Mr. Ferrara said the executives went to West Germany to present the expansion plan to their superiors. From then on, with the Governor's backing, Mr. Ferrara's staff ''put on the full court press,'' he said.
 
Access for Anglers
Officials at the International Trade Center said BASF engineers identified 58.363 acres that the company wanted. The land has a moderate slope, and the appraiser considered 85 percent of suitable for building. Conservationists say it contains trails and is a breeding habitat for the golden winged warbler.
Mr. Smith said parks officials from the Environmental Protection Department, in turn, looked over maps of the trade center's land and identified five irregular parcels along the Musconetcong River totaling 67.5 acres that could provide riverfront access to anglers and hikers.
Materials were prepared for the final arbiter of state land deals, a legislative-executive branch hybrid called the State House Commission.
The State House Commission has seven members, the Governor, the State Treasurer, Budgeting and Accounting Director and four legislators, two from each party. Established in 1931 to take custody of the State House and other government buildings in Trenton, it now also reviews the sale or lease of any state lands, including open space bought through the Green Acres bond program.
 
Normal Process Avoided
Most of the commission's quarterly meetings occur without controversy, often taken up with no more than the disposal of bits and pieces of land left over from highway construction. But there are several indications that in the commission's latest session, on Sept. 19, normal procedures were ignored for the sake of expediently handling what was presented as an urgent need: confirmation of the Allamuchy land swap.
Usually, agendas and supporting documents go out to members two weeks before a meeting. But on the morning of Sept. 19, there were several late additions, including the Allamuchy transaction. The lone notice of the meeting was posted on Sept. 19 on a board at the State House and distributed to reporters with offices there. There was no requirement that the notice be published.
Regulations require that public hearings be held at least 30 days before the commission can consider the sale of public land bought by a municipality with Green Acres bond money. There is no such requirement, however, for the sale of Green Acres land owned by the state.
 
Reaction by Karcher
Commission members also said official appraisals accompanied most proposals, but not this one.
''For the eight years I have been on the commission, this was the first time to my recollection that I was asked to make a decision without an appraisal in front of me,'' said Assemblyman Alan J. Karcher, Democrat of Sayreville.
Mr. Karcher also said he was surprised to find the deal presented with a strong letter of endorsement from the Environmental Protection Commissioner, Christopher J. Daggett, who noted the importance of keeping BASF's jobs.
''It was gently suggested that if we did not act right away, we would be put in the position of being scapegoats'' if BASF moved out of state, Mr. Karcher said.
Now that he has had an opportunity to review the appraisals, Mr. Karcher said, he thinks the Sept. 19 vote should be overturned by Governor-elect James J. Florio after he takes office next month. ''I suggest that the minutes of this meeting be rejected and this transaction be looked at from scratch,'' Mr. Karcher said.
 
List of Criticisms
The assistant commissioner for natural and historic resources in the Environmental Protection Department, Helen C. Fenske, said the economic and environmental benefits of the swap outweigh any negatives. But critics, including Mr. Karcher, called it a bad deal for the state.
They make several arguments. One is that the value of the trade center's land may have been overstated. The 67 acres are appraised at $4.1 million, or an average of more than $60,000 an acre, because it has preliminary approvals for two office buildings. But one building site is sloped and largely by wetlands. N.J. Transit uses the second site, across the Musconetcong, near Stanhope, for a park-and-ride lot. Opponents say that with current wetlands regulations and an overbuilt office market, it seems unlikely either spot would be built on.
The state-owned land may have been undervalued. The 58 acres were appraised at $782,500, or $13,500 an acre for a large almost entirely developable plot with frontage on Interstate 80. The appraisers reasoned that the land was zoned for single-family houses on two-acre lots and that rezoning to Trade Zone status was speculative. Critics, however, said such a change was the very reason for the swap.
 
Commissioner Under Fire
The deal calls for a $300,000 payment to the state to buy land elsewhere. The developer is also paying $4.7 million to the Waterloo Village Foundation, which has a long-term lease on part of the park, including the 58 acres being sold. Critics say all money from the transaction should go to the State Treasury to buy park land.
There may be other problems. To sell state land, at least five commission members have to vote for that. On Sept. 19, five members were present, and one was was State Senator John H. Dorsey, Republican of Mountain Lakes. Besides sitting in the Legislature, he is Township Attorney in Mount Olive, the site of the proposed BASF project.
To some, Mr. Dorsey's vote is a conflict of interest. ''The decision is contaminated because of Dorsey,'' said Gordon A. MacInnes, Jr., former assemblyman and member of the State House Commission. Mr. MacInnes is chairman of the Morris County Democratic Committee.
Mr. Dorsey said he had not violated the Legislature's Code of Ethics, which prohibits lawmakers from voting on issues in which they have a financial interest. ''This is striking out at straws,'' he said.
 
BASF Plea for Secrecy
Critics are upset because the public did not know about the deal until after the commission had voted. Mr. Smith, the developer, said BASF required the swap to be kept secret until approved, because it did not want to upset its employees. Mr. Smith said that the transaction met all regulations and that the opposition was the work of a landowner involved in a separate lawsuit against him.
''To try to nail us now is terribly unfair,'' Mr. Smith said. ''We have not done a thing wrong.''
The dispute involves more than local people. The Sierra Club has given $1,500 to explore filing a suit challenging the deal. The New Jersey Audubon Society is also opposing the exchange. ''The public is being shortchanged,'' said William R. Neil, assistant director of conservation for the society. He said the rules of the State House Commission should be changed to prevent ''de facto public exclusion.'' He also said the state ought to rethink the policy of selling park land for any purpose.
''If we can't respond to this alarm in the night,'' he said, ''if we can't point out how poorly the State House Commission has protected the public interest, then we're opening a barn door for future abuse.''

GRAPHIC: A deal with a developer to swap a piece of New Jersey's Allamuchy Mountain State Park in Mount Olive in return for nearby private parcels has raised questions about the state's guardianship of public lands (The New York Times/Eddie Hausner); map of New Jersey highlighting site of land swap

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS334613 MAGNETIC & OPTICAL RECORDING MEDIA MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (85%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); GERMANY (56%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BASF CORP (85%); ROCKEFELLER GROUP INC (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE CENTER (59%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE CENTER (59%); SIERRA CLUB (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALLAMUCHY MOUNTAIN STATE PARK (NJ); BASF CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE CENTER (MOUNT OLIVE, NJ)

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; PUBLIC PROPERTY STATE PARKS (93%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RELOCATIONS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); CHEMICALS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (60%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (58%); CHEMICALS MFG (54%); WETLANDS (53%); SUBURBS (52%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY



575 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
International
The United States won a 20-year fight with the European Community over European soybean subsidies. American farmers have said the subsidies cost them hundreds of millions of dollars a year in lost exports. Washington had threatened to impose sanctions if the community did not yield. [Page D1.] 
South Korea chose McDonnell Douglas to supply its air force with 120 fighter jets. Under a co-production arrangement, most of the planes will be built in South Korea. The contract is expected to be worth $3.5 billion to $4 billion to McDonnell Douglas. [D1.]
Speculation is mounting that a rise in Japan's key discount rate is imminent, despite a series of Government denials. [D15.]
 
 
 
Companies
Dime Savings Bank said it expected a $110 million loss in the fourth quarter, mostly from problems with single-family homes bought as investment properties. [D1.]
Disney stock moved closer to earth after a yearlong flight, falling $11.375, to $112. [D2.]
A plan collapsed for Hospital Corporation of America to sell 53 psychiatric hospitals. [D4.]
Donald J. Trump said he was talking to Campeau about a possible bid for Bloomingdale's. But he said ''it looks like nothing will materialize because of the short lease on Bloomingdale's flagship store with no options to renew.'' [D4.]
Amoco will begin selling compressed natural gas through four gasoline service stations in the Denver area early next year in a test of public demand for the cleaner fuel. [D7.]
Gillette will buy the U.S. operations of Wilkinson Sword, which has about 3 percent of the U.S. market. It will also hold a nonvoting interest in much of Wilkinson's large European operations. [D4.]
The Open Software Foundation has lost five high-ranking managers recently, lending support to reports that it is nearing an agreement to merge with an A.T.& T. software group. [D2.]
 
 
 
The Economy
The nation's economy grew at a faster rate in the third quarter than previously estimated, but economists and analysts continue to say it is running out of steam. [D3.]
 
 
 
Markets
Two Hunt brothers will be banned from trading in American commodities markets and will pay a fine of $10 million each as part of a settlement of charges stemming from their foray into the silver market. [D1.]
The Federal Reserve Board provided a long-awaited signal that analysts said clearly showed it wanted short-term interest rates to decline. But prices of Treasury notes and bonds were little changed on the development. [D15.] Yields rose on tax-free and taxable money market mutual funds for the week ended yesterday. [D6.]
Stock prices were mixed amid worries about the economy and the events in Panama. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 7.68 points, to close at 2,687.93. [D8.]
Orange juice futures prices climbed higher on the New York Cotton Exchange as fears of a weekend freeze in the Florida citrus belt intensified. [D14.]
The dollar finished lower against most foreign currencies, except for the yen and the Canadian dollar, in light trading. [D14.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
 Inland Steel's sale of preferred stock to Nippon Steel is a bold step between U.S. and Japanese steelmakers. Talking Deals. [D2.]
The Securities Industry Association called on Wall Street to set up a single industrywide agency to handle the arbitration of customer disputes. Market Place. [D8.]
Jack Roth clearly enjoys going his own way as chief executive, founder and part owner of Admarketing. Advertising. [D16.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HCA (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (55%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (55%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (55%); SIC8011 OFFICES & CLINICS OF DOCTORS OF MEDICINE (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: HCA HOLDINGS INC (55%); HOSPITAL CORP OF AMERICA (55%); AT&T SOFTWARE SOLUTIONS (53%); OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION INC (53%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); 

SUBJECT: No Index Terms NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FUTURES (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); BIOFUELS (78%); NATURAL GAS (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); BONDS (77%); SILVER MARKETS (76%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (76%); AIR FORCES (76%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (76%); METALS MARKETS (75%); REAL ESTATE (75%); ORANGE JUICE MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (70%); COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS (70%); ENERGY MARKETS (70%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); COMPANY LOSSES (69%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (69%); MERGERS (68%); MUTUAL FUNDS (68%); HOSPITALS (67%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (62%); 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (72%); 



576 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Pact to End Soybean Subsidies

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 20

 BODY:
The United States has won a 20-year fight with the European Community over European soybean subsidies, the United States trade representative, Carla A. Hills, said today. American farmers have complained that the subsidies cost them hundreds of millions of dollars a year in lost exports.
Under the settlement, the European Community has agreed to pass legislation before the end of next year that would eliminate the subsidies. The agreement removes an immediate threat of American retaliation. Had there been no settlement, the Bush Administration faced a Jan. 31 statutory deadline for reprisal. 
The European Community has accepted the findings of a panel of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the 97-nation organization that decides trade disputes.
 
Unfair Edge for Europe
The panel, finding in favor of the United States, said the subsidies violate an international trade commitment of the community and give unfair advantage to European farmers.
Soybeans and other oil seeds, together with cereals, are the leading American farm exports.
Mrs. Hills, just back from meetings with community officials in Brussels, said she feels ''comfortable'' that the 12-nation bloc will bring its practices into compliance with the GATT finding.
In Brussels Tuesday, the community's Council of Ministers, the organization's highest decision-making body, said it would make the needed adjustments in European regulations covering soybeans and other oil seeds during 1990, a time span that Mrs. Hills said was acceptable.
''We will monitor their progress closely,'' Mrs. Hills said at a press briefing here.
Kenneth L. Bader, chief executive of the American Soybean Association, which represents 400,000 soybean farmers, said from the group's St. Louis headquarters that he was ''elated that the community has accepted the panel findings.'' But he added that the United States must now make sure the promises are kept.
 
Dispute Dates to Late 60's
The Jan. 31 deadline for retaliation was linked to tough trade legislation written by Congress last year that more aggressively asserts American trading rights.
The dispute dates to the late 1960's, when the economic bloc began subsidizing producers of oil seeds - soybeans, rape seeds and sunflower seeds - to help them compete against lower-cost products from the United States.
The initial subsidies were small, but they increased to the point where last year in Italy and France they were more than twice the $6-a-bushel American price for soybeans.
United States officials have said that the American trade losses have been substantial. In 1983, this country sold $3.5 billion worth of oil seeds to the community. By 1988, exports had fallen to $1.5 billion.
Mr. Bader said American farmers would seek to recapture the lost European market, but noted that there was now increased competition from Brazil and other countries in Latin America.
The panel found, as the United States had argued, that the subsidies ''nullified and impaired'' a zero tariff on soybeans that the United States had won from the community in the Dillon Round of worldwide tariff reductions in 1962.
 
Advantages and Concessions
The zero duty was made permanent as part of the balance of advantages and concessions made in that negotiation.
Because complex, politically sensitive community regulations will have to be reworked, the panel counseled the United States to be patient in allowing time for the necessary changes.
Meanwhile, the community's own budget problems, not unlike those in Washington, have made the bloc more willing to curb its costly subsidies, which according to American figures total more than $120 billion annually.
Sensitivity to budget costs also figured in a European Community decision to end programs of Government subsidies for the steel industry. The community joined countries accounting for two-thirds of American steel imports that have signed an agreement with the United States to end trade-distorting steel subsidies.
Although GATT cannot compel countries to accept its rulings, the community decision to accept the panel report was in step with the United States, Japan and other countries, which in recent months have also acted to conform with the Geneva-based international body.
Under the GATT-sponsored Uruguay Round of trade-liberalization negotiations, which are due to wind up next December, leading trading nations want to increase the standing of GATT as the arbiter of a more binding set of international trade rules.
In GATT cases involving customs fees, waste-cleanup payments and infringements of patents, copyrights and trademarks, the Bush Administration has already sought to comply with GATT panel rulings.
 
Time Needed to Change Laws
But, as in the soybean case, time is necessary to change the legislation.
The United States earlier this year brought its Superfund law into compliance with GATT after a 1986 finding that a difference in the fee the United States charges domestic and foreign oil companies to clean up waste under the law discriminates against the foreigner. Congress did away with the difference.
In cases involving Customs fees and infringement of patents, copyrights and trademarks, Mrs. Hills said today that the Administration will also ask Congress for changes next year to conform with panel decisions that went against the United States.
She also said that if a GATT ruling expected shortly on American sugar quotas was negative, ''I will have to look at the whole sugar program.'' She added, ''I don't know how it will come out.''
The United States earlier this year lost a case brought by Australia in which GATT found fault with the way the United States protects sugar farmers. The second case, brought by the community, attacks the statutory basis of the program.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (83%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: SOYBEANS; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; GOVERNMENTAL AID (NON-US); LAW AND LEGISLATION AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); SOYBEAN FARMING (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); TRADE DISPUTES (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H



577 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 3, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: In Upward Revision, G.N.P. Growth Rate for the Third Quarter Is Put at 3%

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 20

 BODY:
The nation's economy grew at a faster rate in the third quarter than previously estimated, but economists and analysts continue to say it is slowing dramatically.
The Commerce Department said today that the gross national product, the broadest measure of economic health, grew at an annual rate of 3 percent in the July-September period, up from a 2.5 percent rate reported in October and the subsequent revision to 2.7 percent last month.
The latest revision resulted in large part from new data that showed exports rose 3.9 percent, rather than the 1.6 percent reported earlier. At the same time, imports rose 7.4 percent, down from the 9.5 percent first reported. 
 
Borrowed Strength
But analysts said the economy in the third quarter borrowed its strength from the current quarter. Many of them anticipate a growth rate of less than 1 percent for the current quarter and a possible end to the unprecedented seven years of peacetime expansion.
The Bush Administration forecast a 2.7 percent growth rate for all of 1989; the fourth-quarter G.N.P. will have to advance 1.6 percent to meet that goal. The G.N.P. grew by 3.7 percent in the first quarter and 2.5 percent in the second.
''The bottom line is that we borrowed from the future to produce 3 percent growth and that source of strength is gone now,'' said Allen Sinai, chief economist for the Boston Company.
Mr. Sinai and others said much of the third-quarter growth resulted from robust sales of automobiles and light trucks stimulated by buyer incentives.
 
Bringing Back Rebates
The incentives were dropped with the introduction of higher-priced 1990 models in October, and sales immediately slumped. Only this month have auto makers begun to restore rebates and offer cut-rate financing in an effort to bolster sales.
The sluggish fourth-quarter growth is a result of Federal Reserve efforts to contain inflation by keeping a tight rein on credit. With signs that inflation had started to moderate, the central bank has eased some short-term interest rates since June, but many analysts have suggested that the Fed will have to ease credit further to stimulate the economy.
The Fed's policy-making arm, the Federal Open Market Committee, met Monday and Tuesday. As usual, the committee gave no indication of any decisions, though the Fed added money to the banking system late on Tuesday in a signal that it might lower interest rates.
As a result, the key Federal funds rate, the interest banks charge each other for overnight loans, dropped to 8 7/16 percent today from about 8 1/2 percent late Tuesday. Analysts said they expected a target of 8 1/4 percent for the rate, the first drop since late November.
The G.N.P. report contained some favorable inflation news. A price index tied to the G.N.P. rose at an annual rate of 2.9 percent, unchanged from earlier estimates but down from the 5 percent jump in the April-June quarter.
 
Profit Data Revised
In a companion report, the Commerce Department said after-tax profits of corporations fell 5.4 percent rather than the 7.2 percent decline reported in November.
Housing construction, hurt by high mortgage interest rates during much of the year, fell 9.2 percent in the third quarter, a revision from the 8.4 percent decline reported earlier.
Government purchases were down 2.4 percent, three-tenths of a percentage point below the November estimate.
The various changes left the G.N.P. expanding in the third quarter at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $4.16 trillion.

GRAPHIC: Chart of US gross national product growth for 1985 to 1989 (Source: Commerce Department); chart of corporate profits after taxes for 1985 to 1989 (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON CO INC (66%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE, DEPARTMENT OF

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (GNP) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); STATISTICS (78%); SALES REBATES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); MONETARY POLICY (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); INTERBANK LENDING (60%); 



578 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Natural Gas Sales Set At Denver Amoco Sites

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, Dec. 20

 BODY:
Amoco Inc., the nation's fourth-largest oil company, said today that it would begin selling compressed natural gas at four gasoline service stations in the Denver area early next year.
That would be the first time a primary gasoline marketer has moved to test public demand for the cleaner-burning fuel in the United States. Compressed natural gas is increasingly popular among motorists in New Zealand, Italy and the Netherlands. 
''The question is how the U.S. consumer will take to it, and now we'll see,'' Amoco's chief economist, Theodore R. Eck, said in a telephone interview from the company's headquarters in Chicago. ''I don't think there is any question that it will succeed over the long term.''
 
Others Following Suit
Many oil companies are privately exploring steps similar to those Amoco announced in Denver to market natural gas to motorists. Their most likely initial customers are operators of trucks and fleet vehicles that travel more than 150 miles a week in urban areas, where public pressure to reduce air pollution is growing.
In many areas, passenger cars can be converted to burn natural gas, while not losing the capability for burning gasoline, for about $1,500. In Vancouver, British Columbia, natural gas has been available to car operators since the early 1980's. About half of the 8,000 vehicles powered by natural gas there are privately owned cars. The rest are fleet vehicles, taxis and delivery trucks.
Over all, Canada has 20,000 natural-gas-powered vehicles, and the United States has 30,000, according to the American Gas Association, a trade group based in Washington. New Zealand has 125,000 natural-gas vehicles, and the Soviet Union 200,000.
Natural-gas fuel produces half as many carbon monoxide emissions as unleaded gasolines. Many analysts believe it will become the nation's alternative fuel of choice, over methanol and ethanol, in the 1990's as Federal and local governments tighten air pollution standards. 357 Miles vs. 227 Miles Compressed natural gas costs less than gasoline and burns more efficiently in an automobile engine. A passenger car can travel 227 miles on $10 worth of gasoline, and 357 miles on $10 worth of compressed natural gas, the gas association said.
In Amoco's Denver project, the Public Service Company of Colorado will spend $75,000 to $250,000 at each of the four Amoco service stations to install compressor stations. The Amoco Production Company, one of the nation's largest natural-gas producers, will deliver gas from its fields in the nearby Rocky Mountains through Public Service's pipelines.
The retail price for the compressed natural gas has not been set, but it will be competitive with gasoline prices, which range from 90 cents to $1.05 a gallon in Denver, said Robert D. McKeehan, Amoco's marketing general manager. Colorado has 700 natural-gas-powered vehicles, including 250 owned by Public Service of Colorado.
Asked how many passenger cars Amoco expects to attract to its new natural-gas pumps, Mr. McKeehan said: ''We don't have any idea. That's one of the reasons why we are starting the test.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PSR (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (62%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (61%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); NEW ZEALAND (90%); NETHERLANDS (88%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (69%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (55%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC SERVICE CO OF COLORADO (62%); AMOCO PRODUCTION CO (61%); AMERICAN GAS ASSOCIATION (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMOCO CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DENVER (COLO)

SUBJECT: GAS (FUEL); GARAGES AND SERVICE STATIONS NATURAL GAS (92%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); ALCOHOLS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (73%); CARBON MONOXIDE (73%); ETHANOL (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); AIR QUALITY (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); AIR POLLUTION (71%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (67%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (66%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C



579 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Dow Drops 7.68 Points, To 2,687.93

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. HYLTON

 BODY:
Stock prices were mixed yesterday, amid worries about the economic outlook and the events in Panama. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 7.68 points to end at 2,687.93.
Trading was volatile. Volume totaled 176.5 million shares, compared with 186.1 million shares on Wednesday. Declining issues barely led advancing ones, 759 to 749. 
The economic picture remained gloomy for the fourth quarter and into next year. The Commerce Department said yesterday that the gross national product grew at a revised annual rate of 3 percent, after adjusting for inflation, in the third quarter, up from a previous estimate of 2.7 percent.
 
Buying Is Slowed
''In addition to all the year-end crosscurrents, you have the Panama situation, which might not stop selling, but it slows buying until things become clearer,'' said Robert B. Ridder, the chief technical analyst at Ladenburg, Thalmann & Company in New York.
He added that a fair amount of confusion existed, as all these changes combined at the end of the year, and some economists sensed that the Federal Reserve had eased the Federal funds rate. The rate is what banks charge each other on overnight loans.
Byron R. Wein, the chief portfolio strategist for Morgan Stanley & Company, also in New York, said: ''Portfolio managers are concerned that they're seeing their absolute performance melt away at year-end. This has been a big year for a lot of stocks, and any ripple of discontent causes exaggerated downside movement, as we saw in Disney today.''
Walt Disney fell sharply, losing 11 3/8, to 112, and was the third-most-active stock on the Big Board, with nearly 2.5 million shares trading. In the morning, two unfavorable analysts' reports were released, and Goldman, Sachs dropped Disney from its recommended list.
 
Oil Stocks Rise
The stocks of the nation's largest oil companies rose on news of the Panamanian invasion. Exxon advanced 3/8, to 50 5/8; ARCO moved up 7/8, to 110 7/8, and Mobil climbed 1 3/4, to 62 3/8.
Technology issues weakened, reversing some gains they made in the last two sessions. I.B.M. was down 1/8, at 94 5/8, and Digital lost 7/8, to 83 1/2. Honeywell rose 2 1/4, to 82 3/4, after the company said it had sold 7.5 percent of its Japanese partnership for $126 million.
Among the actively traded blue-chip issues, Philip Morris slid 1/4, to 40 1/8, and McDonald's dropped 5/8, to 32 7/8. The company, based in Oak Brook, Ill., said on Tuesday that its president and chief executive, Michael R. Quinlan, had been promoted to chairman, effective March 31.
A. G. Edwards Inc., with 5.7 million shares, was the most heavily traded issue on the Big Board. It rose 1/4, to 22 1/8, after the financial services company, based in St. Louis, announced higher quarterly earnings.
 
Insurance Sector Up
Insurance company stocks regained some of the ground lost on Monday. The American International Group was up 2 3/4, to 100 1/2, while Chubb rose 1 1/4, to 90 1/4.
Bank stocks also made some gains. Citicorp moved up 1, to 28; Wells Fargo advanced 1 3/4, to 70 3/8, and Chase Manhattan Bank finished up 1 3/8, to 33 1/2.
Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, continued to regain some of what it had lost, also on Monday, advancing 1 7/8, to 34 3/8.
Alexander's Inc. moved up 2 5/8, to 53, in heavy trading after the New York-based retailer said it had retained Morgan Stanley to consider a possible sale.
Stride Rite fell 3 3/4, to 23 1/2, after the shoe manufacturer said it was expecting its fourth-quarter earnings to be flat.
 
Transport Average Off
The Dow transportation average lost 2.48, to 1,136.74, as airline stocks sank on concerns that the Panama invasion would push oil prices higher, the traders said. UAL, the parent of United Airlines, slid 1 1/2, to 157; AMR, which owns American Airlines, dropped 1 1/4, to 58 3/4, and USAir dropped 1/8, to 31 5/8.
Broader market indexes registered slight gains, with the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks rising 0.38 point, to 342.84, and the New York Stock Exchange composite index increasing 0.14 to end at 189.54.
On the American Stock Exchange, the market-value index gained a slight 0.23, to 368.18.
The Nasdaq composite index rose 2.59, to 436.94, with MCI Communications, which lost 1 1/4, to 39 3/4, leading the most active issues in over-the-counter trading.

GRAPHIC: Table of Favorite Stocks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LTS (NYSE MKT) (69%); MS (NYSE) (68%); GS (NYSE) (59%); DIS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (68%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (59%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (59%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LADENBURG THALMANN FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (69%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (68%); MORGAN STANLEY (68%); WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (60%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (59%); WALT DISNEY CO (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); BONDS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); INTERBANK LENDING (66%); 

PERSON: HYLTON, RICHARD D



580 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 3, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 76 words

HEADLINE: Taiwan Monetary Policy

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, Dec. 20

 BODY:
Taiwan will temporarily relax its tight monetary policy to help local companies pay out billions of local dollars in salaries and bonuses before the Lunar New Year on Jan. 27. Bankers said the measure would also keep interest rates and the United States-Taiwan dollar exchange rate stable. They said the easing will start in mid-January, lasting about a month. Taiwanese companies traditionally give a New Year's bonus worth three to six months' salary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

CITY: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TAIWAN

SUBJECT: WAGES AND SALARIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CHINESE NEW YEAR; CREDIT BANKING & FINANCE (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BONUS PAY (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CURRENCIES (88%); EXCHANGE RATES (88%); INTEREST RATES (84%); 



581 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 14, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Off in Light Trading After the Fed Adds Reserves

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar finished lower against most foreign currencies, except for the yen and the Canadian dollar, in light trading yesterday.
Gold prices edged higher in New York after falling in Europe and Asia. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold for current delivery rose $1.70 an ounce, to $413.60. 
Dealers in Europe said the dollar rose early in the trading day in reaction to news of the United States military action in Panama. But the currency reversed course midway through the New York trading day when the Federal Reserve Board took steps to inject reserves into the financial system.
The Fed's move was viewed as a sign that it might be encouraging lower interest rates. Falling interest rates reduce demand for dollars because the decline cuts the yields available to foreign investors on their dollar-denominated investments.
Richard Levine, the vice president for foreign exchange and precious metals at Elders Futures Inc. in New York, said trading was relatively light all day. ''You could tell there was no real conviction,'' he said.
Mr. Levine said the market viewed the American military action as ''a sign of strength'' but recognized the move was a ''limited regional action'' that was not likely to have global ramifications.
The subsequent decline in the dollar came on low volume, he said, because traders remember that they misinterpreted a similar move by the central bank a few weeks ago as an sign that it was easing credit policy.
He also noted that as the end of the year approached, banks that otherwise would be active in the currency markets were not trading. ''Most of the major banks have squared their books for the year,'' he said.
In New York, the dollar edged up to 143.93 yen, from 143.65 yen late on Tuesday. The pound rose to $1.6060, from $1.6010 late on Tuesday.
Other late-dollar rates in New York, compared with those of late on Tuesday, included: 1.7320 West German marks, down from 1.7365; 5.9125 French francs, down from 5.9275; 1.5555 Swiss francs, down from 1.5565; 1,288.50 Italian lire, down from 1,289.25, and 1.16095 Canadian dollars, up from 1.16085.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (93%); ASIA (92%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BRITISH POUND (73%); GERMAN MARK (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); 



582 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 15, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Fed Said to Signal Lower Rates

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve Board yesterday came through with a long-awaited signal that analysts said clearly showed the central bank wanted short-term interest rates to decline, but prices of Treasury notes and bonds were little changed on the development.
Yesterday, the Fed added reserves to the banking system when the overnight Federal funds rate was trading at 8 7/16 percent. The Fed's move came after several days when it refrained from conducting any open-market operations, and by late yesterday the funds rate was trading at 8 1/4 percent.
''The Fed had not supplied reserves over the past several days when the funds rate was at 8.50 percent,'' said Darwin L. Beck, a money market economist at the First Boston Corporation. ''I am sure they knew that the market would be looking for a sign, and if they didn't want to indicate they were easing policy, they could have stayed out of the market. I am pretty convinced they are saying they want the funds rate to go down to 8.25 percent.'' 
 
Gramley Prediction
Lyle Gramley, chief economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association in Washington and a former Fed governor, predicted in an interview late Tuesday with a reporter from the Market News Service that the Fed would move the next day to ease policy.
''It was a pure guess,'' Mr. Gramley said yesterday, even though his remarks caused dealers to buy Treasury securities late Tuesday.
''My reasoning is based on the fact that the indicators coming in suggest that weakness in the durable goods sector is increasing,'' Mr. Gramley said. ''Also, I can't find any evidence that the monetary easing we have had to date is having beneficial results. Additional easing moves will be coming along in the not-too-distant future. And the next cut in the funds rate will carry with it a reduction in the discount rate.''
The discount rate currently stands at 7 percent.
 
Reaction Surprises Analysts
The market's tepid reaction to the Fed's step surprised some analysts. But others pointed out that since the move has been widely anticipated since before Thanksgiving, there was little reason for prices to move sharply higher.
Indeed, the day before Thanksgiving many dealers and analysts thought that a move by the Fed represented the start of an easing in policy, and a rally ensued. Early the following week, the Fed sent a blunt message that its steps had been misinterpreted. That bout of miscommunication has forced traders and analysts to await an unequivocal signal from the Fed. That clear message was sent, and received, yesterday.
''After the Thanksgiving debacle, the Fed had to send a clear signal,'' said Stuart G. Hoffman, a senior vice president and chief economist at the Pittsburgh National Bank. ''The market's mild reaction shows it was expecting this move. If the Fed had decided to stay out of the market again, the reaction would have been strongly negative.''
The move to an easier credit policy by the Fed is almost certain to prompt speculation about when commercial banks will lower the prime lending rate, currently at 10 1/2 percent. Indeed, a number of analysts said the Fed might hope such a step would take place in reasonably short order.
 
Eurodollar Rates Cited
But a number of bankers said a cut in the prime might be delayed because other key financing costs, like three-month Eurodollar deposits, remained stubbornly high despite recent declines in the overnight funds market. Late yesterday, three-month Eurodollar deposits were offered at 8.50 percent.
''I am sure the Fed would welcome a cut in the prime,'' said one banker, who asked not to be identified. ''But nobody will move fast to lower the prime rate. Three-month Eurodollar deposits would have to get to 8.25 percent before they do that.''
Reaction to the Fed's step was more pronounced among shorter-term Treasury securities than long-term notes and bonds. And participants said the easing move had a mildly positive impact on an auction of $8 billion of new four-year Treasury notes.
At the auction, the Treasury sold the notes at an average yield of 7.65 percent, the lowest yield on such an issue in just under three years, and well below the 8.35 percent yield on four-year notes sold at the last auction on Sept. 27. 6-Month Bill at 7.37% In the secondary market for Treasury securities, three-month Treasury bills were offered late yesterday at a discount rate of 7.54 percent, down 10 basis points, or hundredths of a point. And six-month bill rates fell by nine basis points, to a late offered rate of 7.37 percent.
Meanwhile, bond prices dipped slightly. By late in the day, the 8 1/8 percent bonds of 2019 were offered at a price of 103 1/4, down 3/32, to yield 7.84 percent. And the 7 7/8 percent 10-year notes were offered at 100 25/32, up 2/32 to yield 7.76 percent.
In other developments, worries about troubled real estate loans continued to hound bonds issued by Northeastern banks in the investment-grade corporate bond market.
Once again, prices of Bank of New England, Midlantic and Shawmut Bank bonds came under heavy pressure, dealers said.
Bank of New England, whose problems appear most severe, was badly hit again. The bank's 9 7/8 percent bonds of 1999 fell another three points yesterday, to a price to yield 18.50 percent.
''We have seen a little bit of buying among the better money center names as well as the better regional banks,'' one corporate trader said. ''But there is further deterioration in paper issued by institutions in the Northeast.''
Away from the financial sector, dealers said that prices of most investment-grade corporate bonds moved higher by about an eighth of a point.
 
Hospital Corp. Bonds Fall
Participants in the high-yield ''junk bond'' market were jolted when the Hospital Corporation of America announced that a planned divestiture of its psychiatric care units would not take place. The announcement caused prices of the company's 15 3/4 percent zero-coupon bonds due in 2003 to fall by about five points.
The news had little effect outside of the health care industry, and market participants said that prices of most issues were down by an eighth of a point to a quarter of a point. Trading remains extremely light, the participants said.
In the secondary market for tax-exempt municipal bonds, dealers said that prices of most actively traded issues rose by an eighth of a point to a quarter of a point in slow trading.

GRAPHIC: Table of Freddie Mac yields (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp); table of 4-Year Treasury Notes (Source: Treasury Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL-BANK AG (50%); NATIONAL BANK LIFE INSURANCE CO (50%); NATIONAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT (50%); NATIONAL BANK SECURITIES INC (50%); NATIONAL BANK FINANCIAL (50%); NATIONAL BANK FOR INDUSTRIAL & TOURISTIC DEVELOPMENT (50%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); DURABLE GOODS (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); THANKSGIVING (64%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



583 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 15, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Discount Rate Expected to Be Raised

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 20

 BODY:
Despite a series of denials by Government officials and reports of disputes within the Government, speculation is mounting here that a rise in Japan's key discount rate is imminent.
''I have no doubts,'' said a senior official at the Industrial Bank of Japan, a leading Japanese bank. ''They are very concerned about the exchange rate. It's only a question of whether it is a half-point or three-quarters of a point.'' 
Japan's central bank, the Bank of Japan, has increased the discount rate twice this year already in what has been a largely fruitless effort to curb signs of inflation and to stem the dollar's rise against the yen.
 
Eager to Keep Yen Strong
The Japanese have been eager to keep the yen strong and the dollar weak in an effort to reduce Japan's yawning trade deficit with the United States. A weak dollar makes it cheaper for Japanese to import American goods and tends to reduce Japanese exports.
But the dollar has risen to a range of about 143 to 145 yen, well above what had been believed to be the Bank of Japan's preferred level of less than 142 yen. In addition, a severe labor shortage threatens to push wages higher, the money supply has been growing at a rate of nearly 10 percent a year, and consumer prices have risen this year at a rate of about 3 percent, still low but significantly above last year's level.
The discount rate, which banks pay on certain short-term loans from the central bank, was raised to 3.75 percent this fall and now it is expected to be increased to 4.25 percent to 4.50 percent.
 
Disagreement Over Increase
Earlier this week Japanese newspapers quoted unidentified Bank of Japan officials as saying that the rise would be announced later this week. Those reports were followed by comments from Finance Ministry officials saying that there was no need for such a rise and that none had been agreed upon.
Several bankers confirmed this dispute and said that it reflected concerns at the Finance Ministry about a rate increase before an election, expected in February.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: INDUSTRIAL BANK OF JAPAN LTD (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: CREDIT; DISCOUNT RATE CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); JAPANESE YEN (76%); MONEY SUPPLY (75%); EXPORT PRICES (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); LABOR SHORTAGES (51%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES



584 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Fighting in Panama;
Panama's Troubled Past

 BODY:

JANUARY 1964. Riots break out in the Canal zone, which the United States has controlled since 1903. Panama temporarily breaks dipolmatic relations with Washington to express discontent over American control of the canal. Relations resume in April, when the two coutries agree to renegotiate their treaty relationship. 
 
OCT. 11, 1968. President Arnulfo Arias Madrid is overthrown by officers of the National Guard, who establish a junta. Power is held by Col. Omar Torrijos Herrera.
 
OCT. 1, 1979. The United States flag is lowered within the Canal Zone and adminsitrative authority for canal is transferred to a binational commission.
 
JULY 31, 1981. General Torrijos dies in airplane crash.
 August 1983. Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega takes over as commander of the armed forces. The next year, General Noreiga obtains the resignation of President Nicolas Ardito-Barletta and replaces him with the Vice President, Eric Arturo Del Valle.
 
JUNE 6, 1987. Col. Roberto Diaz Herrera, second in command of the army accuses General Noriega of electoral fraud and a political killing. The accusations set off the first anti-Noriega protests.
 
FEB. 4, 1988. Federal grand juries in Miami and in Tampa hand up drug and racketeering indictiments against General Noriega.
 
FEB. 25, 1988. President Delvalle dismised General Noriega, but is instead ousted himself by the National Assembly. Manuel Solis Palma, a Noriega ally, is appointed acting President. United States continues to recognize President Delvalle.
 
MARCH 3, 1988. United States courts block withdrawal of Panama funds from American banks. Eight days later, President Reagan imposes economic sanctions.
 
MARCH 16, 1988. General Noriega puts down a coup attempt led by the police chief. Continuing street protests bring the capital to a halt.
 
APRIL 8, 1988. President Reagan freezes over $56 million in Panamian assets in American banks and prohibits American companies and the the Government from making payments to Panama.
 
MAY 7, 1988. National elections are held. Exit polls give the opposition a large lead, but offical results give General Noriega's candidate a 2-to-1 lead. Violence breaks out. General Noriega anulls election. President Bush declares it fraudulent.
 
MAY 11. President Bush orders 2,000 additional American troops to Panama, bringing the total United States military presence to 12,000.
 
OCT. 3. Coup effort against General Noriega fails.
 
DEC. 15. Panama's National Assembly declares ''state of war'' between United States and Panama.
 
DEC. 16. Panamanian soldiers kill a United States marine lieutenant.
 
DEC. 18. A United States Army officer wounds a Panamanian police corporal, who he thought was about to draw a weapon.
 
DEC. 20. President Bush orders United States troops into combat in Panama in an attempt to seize General Noriega.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); PANAMA (97%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available ARMED FORCES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMIES (89%); COUPS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); RIOTS (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); ELECTION FRAUD (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (70%); POLICE FORCES (56%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 



585 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1989
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: Spurt in Travel Abroad Cuts Japan's Large Trade Surplus 

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 21 

 BODY:
After fruitless years of struggling with Japan to negotiate down its yawning trade surpluses, foreign governments are getting help from an unlikely source: 10 million Japanese with a passion for overseas travel.
With all those yen and dollars being spent offshore as Japanese ''import'' hotel lodging, restaurant meals and myriad other travel services, Japan's financial surpluses are shrinking quickly, even while many thorny trade issues remain unresolved.
 ''To our surprise, travel services have become Japan's second-largest 'import,' after oil,'' said Koji Watanabe, the deputy minister for foreign affairs and a top official representing Japan in current trade negotiations with the United States. Travel, Mr. Watanabe added, represents ''one of the most promising areas for Japan to increase its imports.''

A Large Travel Deficit
 In the first nine months of this year, Japan ran a $14.5 billion travel deficit, meaning that is how much more Japanese travelers spent overseas than foreign travelers spent in Japan. With a year-end surge beginning - travel agents estimate that a half-million Japanese will go abroad for the holidays - the Government expects the deficit to top $20 billion for the year. That would more than double the $8.7 billion travel deficit in 1987 and would represent a fivefold increase from the $3.7 billion gap in 1985. 
 The total of 10 million overseas travelers includes both tourists and people on business trips and is nearly double the level of three years ago. Some experts maintain that the figures would be much higher were it not for serious bottlenecks at Japan's undersized, overburdened international airports, which can make overseas travel an ordeal.
 ''Not only are people spending these huge amounts on travel, but they all bring back lots of omiyage,'' said Susumo Saito, chief economist here for a unit of Credit Suisse, using the Japanese word for gifts. ''The cumulative amounts have been getting very big,'' Mr. Saito said.
 The typical Japanese tourist will go abroad for six to seven days, spending $1,750 on travel and an additional $1,000 or so on goods, according to the Japan Travel Bureau, the nation's largest travel agent.
 The favorite destinations are in the Pacific Rim. More than a million Japanese visited Hawaii last year, and a similar number also traveled to South Korea and to Hong Kong.
 Japan's travel deficit with the United States alone represented more than a third of its worldwide travel gap in 1988. This year, a growing number of young Japanese are booking trips to New York and San Francisco, Japanese travel agents say.
 Just why the Government and economists are taking notice is clear from the impact the travel boom is having on Japan's current account, the broadest measure of a nation's trade performance with the rest of the world, including trade in both goods and services.
 In the first 10 months of this year, Japan's current-account surplus shrank in dollar terms by 23.5 percent, to $48.6 billion, from the period a year earlier. Government economists now predict that for the full year the current-account surplus could be less than $60 billion, well under the $71 billion forecast earlier and down sharply from the peak of $87 billion in 1987.

Would Slow Rise in Wealth
 To be sure, there are many frictions between the United States and Japan that a reduction in the current-account surplus would not solve. These include American assertions that Japanese markets remain closed to items like semiconductors, wood products, supercomputers and satellites. But a sustained decline in the current-account surplus would slow Japan's extraordinary accumulation of wealth in recent years.
 In the arithmetic of trade figures, the travel deficit is part of the ledger dealing with ''invisible trade,'' which includes services, fees, royalties and investment income. The other part of the ledger concerns merchandise, or ''visible,'' trade. Most of the negotiations between the United States and Japan have been over the merchandise trade balance.
 A declining Japanese current-account surplus could have a significant impact on Japan's purchasing power abroad, reducing its investment in the United States on everything from real estate to Treasury bonds and hampering the competitiveness of Japanese banks overseas.
 ''This is why you hear the Japanese Government talking a lot more about the current account than the visible trade balance, where there hasn't been as much progress,'' said Kenneth S. Courtis, senior economist here for Deutsche Bank. ''And the travel deficit is behind it.''
 Some economists agree with Mr. Watanabe that the travel boom could do more to shrink Japan's capital surpluses than all the measures being planned for increasing the country's imports and opening its markets to foreign goods.

'An Enormous New Market'
 ''What people are starting to realize is that this is not just a change for Japanese consumers, but is changing consumption around the world because of how much Japanese tourists are spending overseas,'' Mr. Courtis said. ''You have some 10 million high spenders going abroad each year. It's an enormous new market that is going to continue to grow.''
 On the front lines of this new army of travelers, life can be hectic. Takeshi Saito, manager of the overseas sales department for the bustling Shinjuku office of the Japan Travel Bureau, said his office's sales had more than doubled this year from 1988.
 As young people nearby studied pamphlets for package trips to Australia, Hawaii and Europe, Mr. Saito noted that he had increased his staff by 30 percent to keep up with the demand. He pointed out that domestic travel has also boomed.

A Different Tourist Now
 Along with the boom is a change in the tourist, reflecting Japan's growing self-confidence. The days of Japanese travel groups moving through museums, hotels, restaurants and stores in lockstep, wearing the same tour hats, carrying the official tour bags and following a flag-waving tour leader also seem to be ending.
 ''No more hats, no more bags,'' Mr. Saito said. ''Things have changed 100 percent. Especially the younger people. They want more free time when they get someplace.''
 Many Japanese who make up the country's roving army of frequent fliers had to be forced as recently as two years ago to take Saturdays off and use their vacation time.
 The Japanese Government lent its rhetorical support to the new spirit. Three years ago it declared its ''10 million plan,'' an effort to cajole that many Japanese to travel abroad. But the Government took almost no practical steps to raise interest in travel. Nonetheless, and to everyone's surprise, the goal has been met two years earlier than hoped.
 Japan enforced rigorous travel restrictions in the postwar years to keep the nation's precious capital resources at home and to help rebuild the economy.

'Saved All the Time'
 ''People were used to being conservative and saved all the time because the Government told them it was necessary,'' said Manabu Kanematsu, president of the Japan Association of Travel Agents, a trade group. ''But when they heard the Government, even the prime minister, encouraging them to use their savings and to travel, people really became more positive, more relaxed.''
 Mr. Kanematsu also said that overseas travel has become a way for Japanese, whose living standard at home has been stunted by dauntingly high costs for housing and luxury goods, to begin to feel the wealth they had been reading about.
 ''People who live in the smallest houses here want the biggest hotel rooms when they travel overseas,'' Mr. Kanematsu said. The Japanese travel boom appears to have a great deal of room for growth. Compared with people in many other industrialized countries, Japanese are still homebodies. Britain, for example, with less than half the population of Japan, has three times as many overseas travelers.
 ''They're way behind other countries,'' Mr. Courtis said. ''I think we can still expect a lot of catching up.''


GRAPHIC: Graphs: Graphs showing how much more money Japanese travelers spend abroad than foreign travelers spend in Japan from '81-'89 (source: Bank of Japan (NYT) (pg. A1)
 amount of Japanese traveling overseas from '81-'89 (source: Ministry of Transport) (NYT) (pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (95%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); RESTAURANTS (72%); AIRPORTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: JTB CORP (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%); JTB USA INC (52%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (58%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2006



586 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

HEADLINE: Spurt in Travel Abroad Cuts Japan's Large Trade Surplus After fruitless years of struggling with Japan to negotiate down its yawning trade surpluses, foreign governments are getting help from an unlikely source: 10 million Japanese with a passion for overseas travel.

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 21

 BODY:
With all those yen and dollars being spent offshore as Japanese ''import'' hotel lodging, restaurant meals and myriad other travel services, Japan's financial surpluses are shrinking quickly, even while many thorny trade issues remain unresolved.
''To our surprise, travel services have become Japan's second-largest 'import,' after oil,'' said Koji Watanabe, the deputy minister for foreign affairs and a top official representing Japan in current trade negotiations with the United States. Travel, Mr. Watanabe added, represents ''one of the most promising areas for Japan to increase its imports.''
 
A Large Travel Deficit
In the first nine months of this year, Japan ran a $14.5 billion travel deficit, meaning that is how much more Japanese travelers spent overseas than foreign travelers spent in Japan. With a year-end surge beginning - travel agents estimate that a half-million Japanese will go abroad for the holidays - the Government expects the deficit to top $20 billion for the year. That would more than double the $8.7 billion travel deficit in 1987 and would represent a fivefold increase from the $3.7 billion gap in 1985.
The total of 10 million overseas travelers includes both tourists and people on business trips and is nearly double the level of three years ago. Some experts maintain that the figures would be much higher were it not for serious bottlenecks at Japan's undersized, overburdened international airports, which can make overseas travel an ordeal.
''Not only are people spending these huge amounts on travel, but they all bring back lots of omiyage,'' said Susumo Saito, chief economist here for a unit of Credit Suisse, using the Japanese word for gifts. ''The cumulative amounts have been getting very big,'' Mr. Saito said.
The typical Japanese tourist will go abroad for six to seven days, spending $1,750 on travel and an additional $1,000 or so on goods, according to the Japan Travel Bureau, the nation's largest travel agent.
The favorite destinations are in the Pacific Rim. More than a million Japanese visited Hawaii last year, and a similar number also traveled to South Korea and to Hong Kong.
Japan's travel deficit with the United States alone represented more than a third of its worldwide travel gap in 1988. This year, a growing number of young Japanese are booking trips to New York and San Francisco, Japanese travel agents say.
Just why the Government and economists are taking notice is clear from the impact the travel boom is having on Japan's current account, the broadest measure of a nation's trade performance with the rest of the world, including trade in both goods and services.
In the first 10 months of this year, Japan's current-account surplus shrank in dollar terms by 23.5 percent, to $48.6 billion, from the period a year earlier. Government economists now predict that for the full year the current-account surplus could be less than $60 billion, well under the $71 billion forecast earlier and down sharply from the peak of $87 billion in 1987.
 
Would Slow Rise in Wealth
To be sure, there are many frictions between the United States and Japan that a reduction in the current-account surplus would not solve. These include American assertions that Japanese markets remain closed to items like semiconductors, wood products, supercomputers and satellites. But a sustained decline in the current-account surplus would slow Japan's extraordinary accumulation of wealth in recent years.
In the arithmetic of trade figures, the travel deficit is part of the ledger dealing with ''invisible trade,'' which includes services, fees, royalties and investment income. The other part of the ledger concerns merchandise, or ''visible,'' trade. Most of the negotiations between the United States and Japan have been over the merchandise trade balance.
A declining Japanese current-account surplus could have a significant impact on Japan's purchasing power abroad, reducing its investment in the United States on everything from real estate to Treasury bonds and hampering the competitiveness of Japanese banks overseas.
''This is why you hear the Japanese Government talking a lot more about the current account than the visible trade balance, where there hasn't been as much progress,'' said Kenneth S. Courtis, senior economist here for Deutsche Bank. ''And the travel deficit is behind it.''
Some economists agree with Mr. Watanabe that the travel boom could do more to shrink Japan's capital surpluses than all the measures being planned for increasing the country's imports and opening its markets to foreign goods.
 
'An Enormous New Market'
''What people are starting to realize is that this is not just a change for Japanese consumers, but is changing consumption around the world because of how much Japanese tourists are spending overseas,'' Mr. Courtis said. ''You have some 10 million high spenders going abroad each year. It's an enormous new market that is going to continue to grow.''
On the front lines of this new army of travelers, life can be hectic. Takeshi Saito, manager of the overseas sales department for the bustling Shinjuku office of the Japan Travel Bureau, said his office's sales had more than doubled this year from 1988.
As young people nearby studied pamphlets for package trips to Australia, Hawaii and Europe, Mr. Saito noted that he had increased his staff by 30 percent to keep up with the demand. He pointed out that domestic travel has also boomed.
 
A Different Tourist Now
Along with the boom is a change in the tourist, reflecting Japan's growing self-confidence. The days of Japanese travel groups moving through museums, hotels, restaurants and stores in lockstep, wearing the same tour hats, carrying the official tour bags and following a flag-waving tour leader also seem to be ending.
''No more hats, no more bags,'' Mr. Saito said. ''Things have changed 100 percent. Especially the younger people. They want more free time when they get someplace.''
Many Japanese who make up the country's roving army of frequent fliers had to be forced as recently as two years ago to take Saturdays off and use their vacation time.
The Japanese Government lent its rhetorical support to the new spirit. Three years ago it declared its ''10 million plan,'' an effort to cajole that many Japanese to travel abroad. But the Government took almost no practical steps to raise interest in travel. Nonetheless, and to everyone's surprise, the goal has been met two years earlier than hoped.
Japan enforced rigorous travel restrictions in the postwar years to keep the nation's precious capital resources at home and to help rebuild the economy.
 
'Saved All the Time'
''People were used to being conservative and saved all the time because the Government told them it was necessary,'' said Manabu Kanematsu, president of the Japan Association of Travel Agents, a trade group. ''But when they heard the Government, even the prime minister, encouraging them to use their savings and to travel, people really became more positive, more relaxed.''
Mr. Kanematsu also said that overseas travel has become a way for Japanese, whose living standard at home has been stunted by dauntingly high costs for housing and luxury goods, to begin to feel the wealth they had been reading about.
''People who live in the smallest houses here want the biggest hotel rooms when they travel overseas,'' Mr. Kanematsu said. The Japanese travel boom appears to have a great deal of room for growth. Compared with people in many other industrialized countries, Japanese are still homebodies. Britain, for example, with less than half the population of Japan, has three times as many overseas travelers.
''They're way behind other countries,'' Mr. Courtis said. ''I think we can still expect a lot of catching up.''

GRAPHIC: Graphs showing how much more money Japanese travelers spend abroad than foreign travelers spend in Japan from '81-'89 (source: Bank of Japan (NYT) (pg. A1); amount of Japanese traveling overseas from '81-'89 (source: Ministry of Transport) (NYT) (pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (58%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: JTB CORP (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%); JTB USA INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; FINANCES; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (95%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); AIRPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES



587 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Giving High Priority to Building a New Embassy in Moscow

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 21

 BODY:
The State Department, citing ''changing conditions'' in the Soviet Union, is giving high priority to constructing a new United States Embassy in Moscow to replace the one to be razed after years of indecision.
The job could cost up to $500 million. Nicholas Salgo, a former United States Ambassador to Hungary, was assigned on Wednesday to hold formal negotiations with the Kremlin. While the talks are in process, Moscow will continue to be shut out of its new embassy in the Mount Alto section of Washington and relegated to an older mansion near the White House. 
Ever since United States intelligence 10 years ago detected what was said to be a network of sophisticated listening devices in the Moscow embassy, American officials have pondered what to do with the $95 million building.
 
Congressmen Notified
Finally, on Wednesday, Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d notified key members of Congress that the embassy will be torn down and a new one constructed in its place.
Mr. Baker, who sent Mr. Salgo and Ivan Selin, the Under Secretary of State for management, to Moscow on an inspection trip in April, passed up the option of saving millions of dollars by demolishing only floors believed to be infested with listening devices, and salvaging others.
He also rejected the option of constructing an annex for top-secret business. That plan would have involved at least two problems: finding the space and creating an assumption that whoever entered the annex was involved in sensitive operations.
''The decision was taken after a careful review of the alternatives for dealing with the bugged new building,'' the State Department said in a news release Wednesday night.
 
'The Realistic Alternatives'
''The review showed that, among the realistic alternatives, the tear-down/ rebuild option offered the optimum combination of security, space, cost and time required for rebuilding,'' the statement added.
The embassy was built under a 1972 agreement made by the Nixon administration that allowed the Soviets to prefabricate the concrete slabs for the building. American officials did not insist on a right of inspection.
The agreement also provided for a new Soviet embassy in the Mount Alto section of Washington, one of the highest points in the city. The embassy was built, but the Soviets were kept from occupying it while a decision on the Moscow embassy was pending. Critics of the arrangement said Americans gave away valuable real estate that also put the Soviets in a good spot to monitor communications through listening devices.
 
Progress in Preliminary Talks
The State Department news release said there was progress in preliminary talks with Soviet officials and added, ''We look forward to working with the Congress and getting on with the project.''
The statement said, ''The changing conditions in the Soviet Union have made resolution of this issue very high among our foreign policy priorities.''
In April, Mr. Salgo and Mr. Selin reported to Secretary Baker that building an annex would be cheaper than the estimated $500 million cost of building a new embassy. Former President Reagan last year advocated razing the building, saying the United States had ''no choice.'' But he left the decision to President Bush.
The State Department said it would ask Congress in the next budget for $270 million for initial building costs. It also said the United States would press claims against the Soviets to recover damages for implanting eavesdropping devices in the building and for shoddy workmanship.
 
Offer by Trade Group
A trade group headed by Dwayne O. Andreas, chairman of the Archer Daniels Midland Company, has offered to buy the building for use as business offices.
Mr. Andreas is co-chairman of the U.S.-U.S.S.R. Trade and Economic Council, which promotes trade between the two nations. He made the offer on behalf of a consortium of United States companies, which would use the building as a Moscow headquarters.
Mr. Baker's decision was first disclosed by the office of Representative Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); HUNGARY (91%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE, DEPARTMENT OF

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (95%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); 

PERSON: SALGO, NICHOLAS



588 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Fighting in Panama: Beijing;
China Calls U.S. Strike in Panama A Violation of International Law

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, Dec. 21

 BODY:
Saying it is ''shocked,'' China today condemned the American military strike in Panama as a violation of international law and demanded the immediate withdrawal of American forces.
The statement, issued by the Chinese Foreign Ministry late this morning, came nearly a day after a similar condemnation of the American action by the Soviet Union. China has no diplomatic relations with Panama, which has an embassy in Taiwan, but some low-level Panamanian delegations have visited, Western diplomats said.
The Foreign Ministry statement called the American action ''a military invasion'' and said it ''constitutes an infringement against a sovereign state of the third world and violates the norms of international law and the aims and purposes of the United Nations Charter. 
''We were shocked and condemn this act,'' the statement said. China, the ministry said, ''firmly opposes any country's interference in the internal affairs of another country under any pretext and in any form, particularly by the use of military force.''
 
'Shock and Strong Condemnation'
The statement concluded: ''The independence and sovereignty of Panama should be respected, and the United States should immediately stop the military invasion of Panama so as to prevent a deterioration of the situation.''
At the United Nations in New York, the New China News Agency reported, the Chinese Ambassador, Li Luye, told the Security Council last night of his ''utmost shock and strong condemnation'' of the American military attempt to topple the Panamanian leader Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega. Mr. Li said that the American action ''can only aggravate the tension in the region and have a serious negative impact on peace and stability in the world,'' and he urged Washington to withdraw its troops immediately.
Since the crushing of pro-democracy demonstrations here in June, China has frequently attacked the United States for interference in Chinese internal affairs. The United States imposed economic sanctions in the wake of the June crackdown, but sent secret missions headed by Brent Scowcroft, the White House national security adviser, and Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence S. Eagleburger, in July and again earlier this month, to seek improved relations.
 
It's 'Their Internal Affair'
At a Foreign Ministry press briefing this afternoon, a spokesman, Jin Guihua, would not say anything more about Panama.
Asked to comment on Rumania's reported crackdown last weekend on demonstrators, he said only that China would not interfere in the internal affairs of any other country. ''We've always held that what is happening in some East European countries is their internal affair,'' Mr. Jin said. ''We believe that Rumania can properly deal with its own affairs.''
Mr. Jin also welcomed President Bush's decision to ease economic sanctions on China by allowing the Export-Import Bank to extend credit to American companies doing business in China and by authorizing the export of three communications satellites to be launched on Chinese rockets.
Mr. Jin called the decisions ''positive steps helpful to the normalization of relations between China and the United States.''
 
Japan Backs President
TOKYO, Dec. 21 (Special to The New York Times) - In a guarded statement of support for President Bush's actions in Panama, Japan today said it ''regretted'' that circumstances had brought the American intervention but that it understood the reasons why the United States felt it had to act.
Japan's comments were issued this evening by the Foreign Ministry after long deliberations within the Government, where officials said they were stunned by the American action.
The private expressions of many officials in informal conversations hinted at more criticism of the United States than was reflected in the official Government statement.
The Panama action received extensive news coverage, with much attention on the adverse effect on Japanase oil imports from the closing of the Panama Canal.
In an editorial headline ''Bush Blunders in Panama,'' the Asahi newspaper asserted that the action would inevitably be viewed by the world ''as a blatant invasion of Panama's independence and sovereignty.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); PANAMA (94%); ROMANIA (92%); TAIWAN (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF KOREA (60%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA; CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY ACTION; PANAMA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); EXPORT CONTROLS (73%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (50%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 



589 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1742 words

HEADLINE: Washington Talk;
To Senator McCain, the Savings and Loan Affair Is Now a Personal Demon

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 21

 BODY:
John McCain's Senate colleagues have just begun to notice how troubled he seems. But his friends back home have been noticing the telltale signs for months.
Normally given to expansive gestures and almost hypertensive movement, he seems, they say, to have visibly shriveled, hunching his shoulders and clasping his arms tightly about his chest as if to ward off blows. And there are the jokes, sarcastic, self-deprecating - funny, but not quite.
So when the Senator rose from the dinner table at Tom and Lupe Espinoza's home in Phoenix last week for the goodbyes, the guests exchanged worried glances as he started to speak. He thanked the hosts for a lovely meal, for their friendship during ''this difficult time,'' and then he tried to lighten the awkward moment. 
''You know what Chairman Mao said - It's always darkest just before it's totally black.''
 
The Link With Keating
In the space of six months, what had seemed a boundless political future for the ambitious Arizona Republican has been darkened by his association with Charles H. Keating Jr., a high-rolling Phoenix land developer and chairman of the failed Lincoln Savings and Loan Association of Irvine, Calif.
Mr. McCain and four Democratic Senators are under investigation to determine whether contributions to their campaigns from Mr. Keating influenced their intervenion with Federal regulators in 1987 to try and save his ailing institution.
Mr. McCain has impressed political scorekeepers on Capitol Hill with his mea-culpa defense, admitting that it was a serious error to meet with the regulators. Bolstered by a transcript from one of those two meetings and by statements by the regulators themselves, he has succeeded, at least here in Washington, in putting some distance between himself and senators who went to greater lengths on Mr. Keating's behalf.
 
'Duty, Honor and Country'
Back home, the meetings are less an issue than the Senator's personal friendship with the land developer and the Senator's friends and supporters now say they are worried that he is loosing the advantage he gained by being humble in continuing to harp on his involvement in the matter.
The Espinozas and others close to John McCain are watching as he struggles against the once unthinkable prospect of a serious Democratic challenger in 1992 and a personal demon - a deep and seemingly unquenchable need to defend his honor.
''I believe in duty, honor and country, and I never thought I'd be embroiled in something like this,'' said Mr. McCain, a Navy war hero who was held prisoner in Vietnam. Fumbling for the words, and apologizing ''because it sounds corny,'' his explanation is tangled up with family tradition and patriotism, with growing up in the shadow of a father and a grandfather who were four-star admirals.
The Senator began explaining it all in late October after a series of Arizona newspaper articles about his ties to Mr. Keating. The point he is desperate to convey is that he washed his hands of the whole thing once regulators outlined their case against Mr. Keating and his financial institution. Unspoken, but clearly intended as part of the message is that some of his colleagues, including Arizona's Democratic Senator, Dennis DeConcini, cannot make the same claim.
 
Fallout From a Friendship
But the finer points of that distinction and the transcripts and regulators' statements Mr. McCain uses to make the points are easily lost in the larger story. A joke making the rounds in Phoenix is that Arizona has the two best Senators money can buy.
Mr. McCain's problem remains the fallout from the friendship he and Mr. Keating struck up the year before he won a seat in the House. The Senator's face tightens and he stares straight ahead as he recites its particulars like a catechism:
''I met him in 1981 at a Navy League dinner in Phoenix. He was the state's largest homebuilder, a contributor to every charity in Arizona. He was very pleasant. He told me I was one of his heros. My wife and I saw him a couple of times that year, and when I announced I was going to run run for Congress, I went to him for financial support, and he helped me, in 1982, in 1984 and in my Senate campaign in 1986.''
''In those days, he didn't want anything from me,'' the Senator continued. ''He never asked me for anything of significance until the thing with the regulators.''
 
Encounter With the Regulators
When Mr. Keating asked Senator McCain to help him make a deal with savings and loan regulators to ease up on Lincoln, the request led to a thunderous argument between the two men outside the Senator's office on March 24, 1987, a week before the first of two meetingswith the regulators.
The friendship never recovered, but Mr. McCain, for reasons he finds difficult to explain, ignored the advice of his staff and attended the meetings anyway.
He went, he says, not for Charlie Keating but because of the jobs Mr. Keating's American Continental Corporation provided in Arizona, because, he says, it appeared that regulators were unfairly giving Lincoln Savings a hard time. He relied, he says, on an accounting report, signed by no less an economic emminence than Alan Greenspan, then a consultant, now the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. Nobody twisted his arm, he said.
 
The Bahamas and Wife's Trip
''I was very, very concerned about the appearance of the meetings before I went,'' he said. ''I'm a big boy. I made the decision.'' His first real effort to explain came at a Phoenix news conference a week after The Arizona Republic reported that he and his family had vacationed at Mr. Keating's home in the Bahamas in 1984, 1985 and 1986, and had only belatedly reimbursed the developer's company for flights there on the corporate jet.
The paper also reported that the Senator's wife, Cindy, and her father, a wealthy beer distributor and prominent Phoenix businessman, invested $359,100 from their own comapny in a Keating shopping center partnership in 1986.
Senator McCain said he was unaware that some of the personal flights had not been paid for until Mr. Keating's accountants brought them to his attention in March 1989. He made the reimbursements in May and June.
His wife has a right to her own career, he said, noting that under a prenuptual agreement their finances are separate and the investment had been reported on his Senate financial disclosure forms for three years.
 
Editor Was a Convert
The make-a-clean-breast move won Mr. McCain an important convert, William Cheshire, the editorial page editor of The Republic. A strong McCain booster earlier in his career, he had been taking the Senator to task over the Keating affair.
Mr. McCain's Washington staff, like his friends in Arizona, had advised against the news conference and were relieved that the Senator's notorious short fuse did not blow under the harsh questioning. Some, like Grant Woods, a friend and former aide to the Senator had argued that Mr. McCain's tendency to shoot from the hip when angry, would be outweighed by the personal and political benefits of telling his story.
''He had already had some pretty rough sessions with reporters,'' Mr. Woods said, describing press interviews in which Mr. McCain had sarcastic and angry exchanges. But after the Phoenix news conference, Mr. Woods said, ''I think his spirits were actually lifted because he felt like he was doing something.''
Now his closest friends and advisers are worrying about something else. The Senator can't stop talking.
''It's a very dangerous decision to open yourself up like that,'' said Mr. Espinoza, a former community worker who now develops low-income housing. He is also the godfather of Mr. McCain's youngest son, Jimmy.
 
Obsessed, a Friend Says
''He was pretty stressed out once they sucked Cindy into this thing,'' Mr. Espinoza said.
''He's better now, but I think he's obsessed by a situation that he has no control over. We're beyond the issue of right, wrong or indifferent - intellectually he's accepted that. I don't think emotionally he has yet.''
Mr. McCain himself has a somewhat different fear. Remembering John Tower and Jim Wright and their ethics battles, what haunts him is that he is now part of a story that won't die. ''If this had been just a John McCain story, it would be over by now,'' the Senator said. ''But it's about Keating and it's about the savings and loan bailout and it's about campaign finance. When The Arizona Republic wrote about my wife's investment, I knew then that I had to seek every opportunity to get my version of events out. I started with Phoenix and then moved on to all other available forums.''
Over the past month, he has crisscrossed his state, presenting his case to editorial boards and at town meetings. If the number and tenor of questions about the Keating affair are any guide, the response outside the Phoenix area has been generally positive. Mr. McCain was touched last week when officials in Sierra Vista, 75 miles outside Tucson, offered a testimonial to his good character.
But Phoenix and its suburbs are the key to winning in Arizona politics, and a Democratic Party that once considered Mr. McCain invulnerable is clearly re-evaluating.
''There are two groups in this state who would love to see John McCain get hung, and combined they could do him a lot of damage,'' Rick DeGraw, a Democratic political consultant, said. He was speaking of the the possibilities in a marriage of convenience between Democrats, who make up 43 percent of the electorate, and the right-wing backers of former Republican Gov. Evan Mecham, who are about 14 percent of the Republican voters and have not forgiven Mr. McCain for his vocal support of Mr. Mecham's impeachment last year.
Robert Robb, a Republican political consultant, said: ''I think John was right to go public, but I think he should disappear for a while and take some political hibernation; right now, whenever anybody hears the name John McCain, all they think of is Keating,''
It is that commonly held wisdom that cuts Mr. McCain most deeply, even as he accepts the truth of it. ''I should stop talking about it'' , he said after a grueling 16-hour hour day on the road. ''I am going to stop talking about it.''
Then he checked his speaking schedule for the next day, an equally grueling round of appearances in the northern part of the state.
''It's like a campaign, '' he smiled, ''A campaign for credibility.''

GRAPHIC: Senator John McCain, whose involvement in the Lincoln Savings and Loan affair has resulted in a seemingly unquenchable need to defend his honor, speaking recently at a town meeting in Douglas, Ariz. (NYT/Kim Newton)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (50%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN (IRVINE, CALIF); CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; ETHICS US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); ETHICS (62%); 

PERSON: MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN); RASKY, SUSAN F; KEATING, CHARLES H JR JOHN MCCAIN (91%); 



590 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 37, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Dr. William Greenough, 75, Dies; Devised Variable-Annuity Fund

 BODY:
Dr. William C. Greenough, an economist and lecturer whose work transformed pension-fund management, died on Wednesday night at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center after suffering complications from a heart attack. He was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan.
Dr. Greenough was the retired chief of the nation's largest pension fund, the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association-College Retirement Equities Fund. The $82 billion fund, which Dr. Greenough headed from 1957 to 1979, is serves employees of 4,300 universities, colleges, independent schools and related nonprofit educational organizations. More than one million people participate in its programs. 
In the early 50's, Dr. Greenough, as a vice president at the fund, developed the innovation of a variable-annuity stock fund, to help insure the long-term stability of the pension-fund pool.
 
Tightly Held Stock Portfolios
The idea, which grew out of his study of the equities market, was based on the principle that a diverse portfolio of common stock, held tightly through booms and busts, would outperform traditional fixed-dollar pension funds and provide additional revenues to offset inflation. A result was the establishment, in 1952, of the College Retirement Equities Fund, which has become the world's largest single-managed equity fund, with assets of $38 billion.
Paul Samuelson, the Nobel Laureate in economics and a former trustee of the fund, yesterday called the variable-annuity concept a landmark in pensions, adding, ''Few people get a chance to play such a pivotal role in such an important field.''
William Croan Greenough was born on July 27, 1914, in Indianapolis. He began his formal studies in economics at Indiana University in Bloomington, where he graduated Phi Beta Kappa in 1935 and was later an instructor and assistant dean in the business school. He also had a lifelong interest in the sciences and journalism.
In 1938, he earned a master's in economics at Harvard, and he received a Ph.D. in 1949. His thesis, ''College Retirement and Insurance Plans,'' became a textbook for the industry.
In World War II, he was an air-combat intelligence officer in the Navy and was awarded a Bronze Star.
Dr. Greenough was a member of President Jimmy Carter's Commission on Pension Policy and chairman of the Committee for Economic Development subcommittee on reforming retirement policies. He was also a member of the Rockefeller University Council and the Academy for Educational Development.
From 1972 to 1982, Dr. Greenough was one of the first public directors of the New York Stock Exchange. He had also been a trustee of many organizations, including Radcliffe College, the Carnegie Institution of Washington, the Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies and the Devereux Foundation, which elected him chairman last month. Dr. Greenough became president of the teachers' fund in 1957 and was later chairman and chief executive officer, titles he retained until retiring in 1979.
Dr. Greenough had recently completed his sixth book, a history of the fund to be published in the spring.
Surviving are his wife, the former Doris Decker; two sons, David, of Downingtown, Pa., and Walter, of Chicago, and a daughter, Martha Alice.
A service will be held on Jan. 12 at 3 P.M. at the All-Souls Unitarian Church, 1157 Lexington Avenue in Manhattan.

GRAPHIC: Dr. William C. Greenough (Bachrach)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (72%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (72%); CARNEGIE INSTITUTION OF WASHINGTON (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (83%); COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (55%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); PENSION FUNDS (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); RETIREMENT POLICIES (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); COMMON STOCK (74%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (65%); WORLD WAR II (60%); 

PERSON: GREENOUGH, WILLIAM C (DR) JIMMY CARTER (54%); 



591 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 38, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Poland's Brave New Economics

 BODY:
The muscular economic package announced this week by Poland's Finance Minister is designed to stamp out rampant inflation. It may, instead, stamp out the Solidarity-led Government. The plan boldly seeks to create a market economy nearly overnight. But along the way, prices will temporarily soar and hundreds of thousands of Polish workers may lose their current jobs. 
The International Monetary Fund is on the verge of approving the plan, opening up billions of dollars in aid from Western democracies. But success may depend on the willingness of the United States and its allies to extend additional help if the program should falter.
Poland's economy is in shambles. Output is falling; inflation rages at over 40 percent per month. The Government's answer is radical surgery: cut Government subsidies, free prices, restrain wages and stabilize the currency. State monopolies will be broken up and sold to the private sector.
Each of these steps is necessary. But each threatens the livelihoods of particular segments of the Polish population. The Government's pledge to create a safety net for the program's victims assuages only some of the anxiety.
The immediate task is to squash inflation. That requires cutting the budget deficit, thereby relieving pressure on the Government to print money. The obvious way to do this is to eliminate widespread subsidies to business. But that means a one-shot increase in prices as companies are forced to replace the Government handout.
If wages follow this upward burst of prices, unemployment will mount and the battle against inflation will be lost. In part, the Government plans to legislate restraint by taxing wage increases. But it knows that wage restraint is fundamentally a matter of trust: workers will forgo hikes only if they believe inflation will be stopped and that the Government is working in their behalf.
Polish workers have good reason to support the Government's anti-inflation campaign. Their loss from the immediate burst of consumer prices is more apparent than real. They pay dearly for the current system: high taxes, high inflation and long lines for scarce goods. The Government's commitment to a convertible zloty, backed by a $1 billion stabilization loan from 24 democracies, is especially critical to earning everyone's trust. The commitment rules out reckless monetary policies and guarantees workers that their paychecks will be able to buy what they need.
Poland is launching a valiant effort to unravel 45 years of authoritarian control. But the transition will be rough. If the Poles run into trouble, the West should be prepared to give hard currency, food or whatever else Poland needs. The Poles are suffering enough.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: POLAND (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; EDITORIALS; PRICES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); TRENDS (76%); CURRENCIES (71%); APPROVALS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (51%); MONETARY POLICY (50%); 



592 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins Faces Tall Budget Deficit and Short Deadline

BYLINE: By RICHARD LEVINE

 BODY:
A little more than four weeks after he takes office, Mayor-elect David N. Dinkins is required to present a plan to resolve what seems likely to be the biggest problem of his first year and one that might help shape an entire term: a New York City budget deficit that has been estimated at $395 million and that could grow to as much as $1.8 billion.
The city's preliminary spending plan, which outlines revenues and expenses for the rest of the current fiscal year - which ends June 30 - and the four years that follow, is due on Feb. 1, a month after Mr. Dinkins is to be sworn in. Meeting the already tight deadline will be further complicated by the impact of the transition on the rest of the city's bureaucracy.
Mr. Dinkins was elected after a campaign in which he talked of new initiatives like treatment on demand for drug addicts and programs to prevent child abuse and neglect. But he has already acknowledged in a speech to business executives and civic leaders that the city's stagnant economy and sluggish tax revenues will lead to a ''scaling back on some of the service expansion anticipated in this year's budget.'' 
 
Search for Budget Director
He talked of making government more efficient, of reviving the local economy and of persuading the state and Federal governments to send more help. But Mr. Dinkins also said, ''Government simply cannot afford to do all that needs to be done.''
The current Budget Director, Paul Dickstein, has been warning for weeks that the new administration will have to raise taxes and cut existing programs to balance the budget for the next fiscal year. At a recent conference on New York City and its problems, Mr. Dickstein said he believed it would not be possible to make deep reductions in spending and continue to spare two politically sensitive areas, the Board of Education and the Police Department, from cuts.
It will be the task of the next budget director to assess the city's economic prospects, the impact of higher taxes and the needs of the city's 50 departments and to recommend options to the new Mayor.
Although Mr. Dinkins indicated that the budget appointment would be a priority, the job has seemed difficult to fill. Several candidates are said to have withdrawn from consideration, including Franklin D. Raines, an investment banker at Mr. Rohatyn's firm, Lazard Freres & Company, and Sharon Gist Gilliam, former budget director of Chicago. Norman Steisel was mentioned for the budget post but was chosen by Mr. Dinkins as First Deputy Mayor.
Those still being mentioned as candidates include Anthony E. Shorris, the current Finance Commissioner and a former deputy to Mr. Dickstein; T. Dennis Sullivan, who heads a company that invests funds for Princeton University and was executive director of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, and Philip R. Michael, executive director of the Financial Control Board, another agency established during the fiscal crisis, and a former City Finance Commissioner.
 
Rohatyn's Gloomy View
Mr. Dinkins, referring to Mr. Steisel's experience in the city budget office, said yesterday, ''We're not as handicapped as one might think, not having selected a budget director, and we're making some progress in that direction.''
One of the gloomier views of the city's finances has come from Felix G. Rohatyn, chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation and an adviser to Mr. Dinkins. Mr. Rohatyn, an investment banker who was an architect of the city's recovery from the fiscal crisis of the mid-1970's, urged the Mayor-elect to hold spending to the level of this year's revenues.
Such an approach would be a departure from recent city budgets. Spending grew by 7 percent from 1988 to 1989 and 8.8 percent from 1989 to 1990, propelled largely by inflation and the expansion of mandated programs, Mr. Dickstein said.
Given those forces, he said, a no-growth budget for next year would entail about $1.7 billion in program cuts. That would cause thousands of layoffs and have an enormous impact on living conditions in the city, he said.
But Mr. Rohatyn, indicating that he believed such an assessment was overstated, spoke of the fiscal risks that the city faces, including tax revenues that have continued to falter, the potential delay of proceeds from the sale of the New York Coliseum site because of legal challenges to a redevelopment plan for the area, contract negotiations with city workers and an anticipated cut in state aid.
All that could push next year's deficit, which the Koch administration now estimates at $395 million, to as much as $1.8 billion, Mr. Rohatyn said. So he argued that it would be prudent to limit spending and halt the growth of a municipal work force that has increased by 50,000 employees to 250,000 since 1980.
 
Recommend Options
A tax increase, he added, ''should only be looked upon as the last part of a package.''
Mr. Dickstein has already asked the heads of city agencies to list spending cuts of 1 percent for the rest of this fiscal year and 4 percent for the next year. But many agencies will soon have new commissioners who will most likely have new priorities and approaches.
On a normal schedule, the budget office would come to an assessment of the size of the next year's deficit by about Jan. 1. The Mayor is consulted about the gap, and once there is a consensus on its magnitude, it is presented with a list of options on how to cope with it around the second week in January. Then agency heads typically begin their negotiations on the allotments for their departments, starting with the budget office before taking their appeals to the First Deputy Mayor and, sometimes, to the Mayor.
In mid-January, there is likely to be another factor to worry about: the proposed state budget. Last January, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo offered a plan that city officials said would have required $445 million in reductions to state-financed programs in the city. Eventually, the Legislature restored the aid, but there are signs the city may not do so well this year.
 
After Unexpected Prosperity
This will also be the first budget under the revised City Charter, which eliminates the Board of Estimate and gives the City Council approval power. The Council already seems anxious to play a major role in the city's fiscal affairs, refusing to approve $201 million in spending cuts for the current fiscal year that the Mayor announced in October and signaling its intention to negotiate with the new Mayor.
The city's fiscal difficulties over the last few years have occurred after a period of unexpected prosperity in which the economy, propelled largely by the financial-services industry, averaged 50,000 new jobs a year and the city amassed huge budget supluses. But Wall Street began to constrict after the stock market collapse in October 1987, leaving little to balance the city's continued loss of manufacturing jobs.
More jobs mean more tax dollars for the city; a stagnant economy means city revenues suffer. And after the first three months of this fiscal year, tax collections were running $265 million behind expectations. This week, Mr. Dickstein announced that revenue estimates would be reduced by an additional $110 million.
In calling for a limit on spending, Mr. Rohatyn noted in a letter to the M.A.C. board that ''the consensus of economic forecasters in both public and private sectors is that the upcoming year will be weaker for the state than the nation and weaker for the city than the state, and that economic performance in 1990 will lag behind the lackluster patterns of 1989.''
This view, he said, leads to an expected national growth rate of 2 to 2.5 percent in 1990 for a ''slowdown without a recession in the country as a whole.'' Under this view, he said, the New York State economy is expected to grow at about half the national rate, with ''near zero growth within New York City.''
''We're done with the period of when you saw increases of 50,000 to 60,000 jobs,'' said Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, regional commissioner of the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. But Mr. Ehrenhalt also noted that the city's economy had not lost the 50,000 to 70,000 jobs that some had predicted after the 1987 stock market collapse, adding, ''New York has a way of confounding the experts.''

GRAPHIC: Graphs compare total New York City payroll employment and number of jobs, in manufacturing anf finance, 1979-Oct. 31 1989 (Source: Labor Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LAZARD FRERES & CO LLC (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); MAYORS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); POLICE FORCES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); TAX INCREASES (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (68%); CHILD ABUSE (67%); 

PERSON: LEVINE, RICHARD; DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES) FRANK RAINES (50%); 



593 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: H.U.D. to Review Plan For a Housing Project

 BODY:
The Department of Housing and Urban Development announced yesterday that it will review its decision to finance a disputed housing project on the Lower East Side of Manhattan.
At a hearing at Federal District Court in Manhattan, a spokesman for the department, Craig Stewart, said the agency would try to make a decision about the project, called Casa Victoria, by Jan. 10. 
The project, a 79-unit apartment building for the elderly to be constructed on city-owned land at Ninth Street and Avenue C, has come under new scrutiny since The New York Times published an article on Oct. 26 in which a regional economist for the housing department, David Burns, said he had been pressed to approve the project by his supervisors, who are associates of Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York.
Opponents of the project, who want to keep the site as a small neighborhood park, had sued to stop it until allegations of undue influence by Mr. D'Amato could be examined.
Judge William C. Conner agreed to issue a temporary restraining order against the housing project until the Federal department comes to a decision on the proposed $7 million loan for the building.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: CASA (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CASA VICTORIA (NYS HOUSING PROJECT; NEW YORK CITY; LOWER EAST SIDE (NYC)

SUBJECT: HOUSING HOUSING AUTHORITIES (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CITIES (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (52%); 

PERSON: STEWART, CRAIG ALFONSE M D'AMATO (70%); 



594 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: THE LAW: At the Bar;
Jews on the Supreme Court: Were they different and why are there none now?

 BODY:
No Jew has sat on the United States Supreme Court since 1969, when Abe Fortas resigned. It is an odd phenomenon, given the prominence of Jewish lawyers in the United States. In that period, Jews have led the American Bar Association, dozens of major law firms and virtually every major American law school.
But for many Jews, even touching the topic is taboo. Perhaps because of fear of seeming either chauvinistic or parochial, there is no longer much talk about a ''Jewish seat'' on the High Court, even during Judge Douglas Ginsberg's short flirtation with the post. Jewish law professors have shied away from the subject or, for that matter, anything concerning the distinctiveness of Jewish judges. 
This is what makes a recent scholarly exchange between Robert Burt of Yale Law School and Judge Stephen Reinhardt of the United States Court of Appeals in Los Angeles so unusual. In it, the two men broached subjects that remain touchy even in an ethnocentric age, like the dearth of Jews on the nation's highest court and whether Jewish judges differ from their Christian counterparts.
Last year, the University of California Press published Mr. Burt's book ''Two Jewish Justices: Outcasts in the Promised Land.'' It examines how the ethnicity of Louis D. Brandeis and Felix Frankfurter, the Supreme Court's first two Jewish members, affected their jurisprudence. The question is important, even obvious. But until Mr. Burt's book, it was not only unanswered but also unasked.
True, legal academia has many Jews, including at one point the law school deans at Harvard, Yale, Columbia, the University of Pennsylvania, and Berkeley simultaneously. But older professors, perhaps fearful of generating the anti-Semitism many had encountered in their youth, avoided such questions; middle-aged professors, thinking themselves enlightened secularists, were not interested in them; and younger ones, many imbued with economics, thought them too squishy.
Enter Mr. Burt. His answer to the question was that the Jewishness of the two Justices left them both ''outsiders,'' never at home in the American mainstream.
Brandeis, according to Mr. Burt, remained in, and even relished, the role of outsider, or, to use the political philosopher Hannah Arendt's term, ''pariah.'' He resolutely stood apart, disdained social acceptance, sympathized with the unpopular. Frankfurter, on the other hand, was the ''parvenu,'' in Miss Arendt's term, a judicial Sammy Glick, so desperate for acceptance that he became, Mr. Burt wrote, ''an over-eager apologist for the existing order.''
Judge Reinhardt's reaction to the Burt book is striking, and would undoubtedly have caused a greater stir had it not appeared in the Bermuda Triangle of contemporary legal debate: an academic law review, specifically the Cardozo Law Review.
The judge argues in a review of ''Two Jewish Justices'' that Brandeis and Frankfurter had more in common than Mr. Burt suggests. ''I doubt that either would have felt at home in a Bush - let alone a Reagan - Administration,'' he wrote.
But he agrees that most Jewish judges are different, that they have an instinctive sympathy for the underdog.'' He also divides them into two categories, better described perhaps as ''mensches'' and ''curmudgeons'' than ''pariahs'' and ''parvenus.''
The former group includes judges like Brandeis and, presumably, himself. In the latter he places the Jewish judges appointed by President Reagan. On issues like affirmative action, abortion and capital punishment, he writes, their attitudes ''are remarkably similar to those held by the majority of white Protestant males.'' And, like Frankfurter, ''they are sticklers for procedure; view the judiciary as having a limited role; and tend to be intellectuals.''
Judge Reinhardt then confronts the absence of Jews, of whatever political stripe, from the Supreme Court. ''Given the prominence of Jews in the legal profession, both in numbers and talent, the appropriate question is not whether there should be a Jewish seat, but why are there not several Jews on the Court today,'' he writes.
The blame, he says, lies partly with Richard Nixon, the man who filled the Fortas seat and a President, he wrote, ''who did not speak or think kindly of Jews.'' But it also lies, Judge Reinhardt added in an interview, with Jews who did not complain when the tradition was broken and who have remained silent since. ''Avoiding the issue,'' he said, ''is part of the reason that we've just been frozen out.''
A Jewish colleague of Judge Reinhardt's, Alex Kozinski, said the absence of Jews on the Supreme Court ''has been an issue among Jews for 20 years, but most aren't willing to speak out on it.''
''Reinhardt,'' Judge Kozinski said, ''has more courage than most of us.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 23, 1989, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
The ''At the Bar'' column on the Law page yesterday referred incorrectly to the first Jews to have served on the United States Supreme Court.
 
Benjamin N. Cardozo followed Louis
D. Brandeis; Felix Frankfurter was the third Jewish Justice, not the second.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: THE LAW PAGE (NYT); TWO JEWISH JUSTICES: OUTCASTS IN THE PROMISED LAND (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (93%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (93%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (58%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US)

SUBJECT: COURTS; JEWS; JUDGES SUPREME COURTS (93%); JEWS & JUDAISM (92%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); 

PERSON: MARGOLICK, DAVID; REINHARDT, STEPHEN (JUDGE); BRANDEIS, LOUIS D; FRANKFURTER, FELIX STEPHEN REINHARDT (79%); 



595 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
 
The Economy
Almost 500 more savings associations than initially projected by the Bush Administration will have to be taken over by the Government under the savings and loan bailout, the Office of Thrift Supervision reported today. That is sure to mean that the ultimate cost of the rescue, which has been estimated at $159 billion over the next 10 years, will be considerably higher. [Page D1.] 
Consumer spending rebounded in November from a sharp fall the previous month. Personal incomes increased 0.8 percent. [D2.]
Businesses plan to increase capital spending 4.9 percent in 1990, compared with an 8.5 percent increase this year, the Commerce Department said. [D2.]
William Herbert Hunt lost the majority of his personal assets as a judge confirmed his bankruptcy reorganization plan. [D6.]
 
International
Japan is getting help with its trade surpluses from the 10 million Japanese tourists with a passion for overseas travel. [A1.]
European Community ministers approved sweeping powers to review corporate mergers. The move ended 16 years of debate in which member nations had balked at ceding their authority. [D1.]
The O.E.C.D. projected that growth in the industrial world would slow next year while inflation would inch up slightly. [D2.]
 
 
 
Companies
Sears, Roebuck said it would borrow $800 million to finance an
Sears, Roebuck said it would borrow $800 million to finance an employee stock ownership plan that will raise its workers' stake in the company to 21 percent from 15 percent. [D1.]
A.T.& T. said it had been awarded a contract by the Transportation Department for work stations that will be used for office automation. The contract could be worth as much as $850 million. [D5.]
The California Department of Insurance is examining the transfer of ''junk bonds'' by First Executive to a series of affiliated companies. [D6.]
The magazine 7 Days faces the challenge of proving it is a publication that Manhattan's trend-setters are willing to pay for. [D1.]
Stride Rite received a takeover offer of $32 a share, but there were signs that investors were skeptical of the bid, which valued the company at more than $860 million. [D5.]
Caterpillar's stock fell sharply after it lowered its outlook for the fourth quarter, blaming sluggish economic growth for depressing its sales. [D5.]
 
 
 
Markets
The S.E.C. proposed rule changes that would force mutual funds to identify portfolio managers and performance trends. The proposals are likely to be strongly opposed by the industry. [D1.]
Stock prices were slightly higher, as advances of blue chips helped to pull up smaller stocks. The Dow Jones industrial average edged up 3.20 points, to 2,691.13. [D6.]
Prices of Treasury securities were very narrowly mixed in dull trading, as dealers effectively closed their books on 1989. [D13.]
Forecasts of frigid weather continued to bolster orange juice and heating oil futures prices. [D14.] The dollar declined modestly against most major currencies in quiet trading yesterday. [D14.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
While many people worry about political and military dangers of a unified Germany, attention must be paid to the economic consequences of such a step. Leonard Silk: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Home Shopping Network found a modicum of success through its failure on the legal front. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D6.]
Topps is betting that American children will flock to its new magazine as they have to its baseball cards. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D9.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (55%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (84%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY SAVINGS & LOANS (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); TRENDS (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); MUTUAL FUNDS (74%); MERGERS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); FUTURES (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); BONDS (73%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); HEATING OIL (72%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); CONTRACT AWARDS (69%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (68%); SECURITIES LAW (67%); INSURANCE (65%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (65%); HEATING OIL PRICES (60%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (56%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (50%); 



596 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Sears to Borrow $800 Million For an Employee Stock Plan

BYLINE: By ERIC N. BERG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Dec. 21

 BODY:
Sears, Roebuck & Company said today that it would borrow $800 million to finance an employee stock ownership plan that would raise its workers' stake in the company to 21 percent from 15 percent.
The nation's largest retailer said it was creating the plan to take advantage of tax benefits and to buy shares at prices it considered favorable.
Wall Street analysts said the move was also an attempt by Sears to reduce its vulnerability to a takeover.
The ESOP will go into the open market to buy about 20 million Sears shares. The plan provides a way for Sears to finance more cheaply its existing profit-sharing plan, which it set up in 1916. 
In trading today on the New York Stock Exchange, the shares of the Chicago-based retailer rose 12.5 cents each, to $36.75.
The analysts said the move demonstrated Sears's hope that its stock price would eventually rise to reflect what the retailer believed would be the success of its ''everyday-low-price'' policy. But the policy, introduced with fanfare in March, has failed so far to produce significant results.
More important, the analysts said that the employee stock plan could be viewed as part of a broader overhaul announced by Sears last year. Faced with rumors of a possible bid for its shares, Sears said in October that it would sell its Sears Tower headquarters here, dispose of its assets, buy back stock and convert its stores to everyday low pricing. The analysts said then that the moves were aimed at unlocking greater value for Sears's shareholders and thereby warding off any acquisition.
The analysts said that today's move was also aimed at discouraging a takeover by placing more Sears shares in presumably friendly hands, those of its employees.
''It was likely part of the motivation,'' said Edward A. Weller of Montgomery Securities in San Francisco.
 
Tax Considerations
For their part, Sears executives said establishing the employee plan was not motivated by takeover considerations but was largely driven by tax concerns.
In particular, Sears intends to repay the $800 million loan partly out of the dividends paid on the common stock in the plan. Dividends normally are not tax deductible to the paying company, but they do become deductible expenses when they are paid on shares held in an ESOP. So with its move, Sears will be able to buy stock for its employees and deduct part of the cost.
''It's a more economical way for us to finance profit-sharing, and there's also a potential for appreciation of those shares,'' said Douglas Fairweather, a Sears spokesman. Contributions that Sears makes to its profit-sharing plan will now go toward repaying the ESOP loan.
 
Little Effect on Profits
Regarding cash flow or profits, establishing the plan will likely have little effect, according to the analysts' calculations. That is because the tax savings to be derived from deducting the dividends on Sears's stock in the plan will pretty much be offset by the interest the company will pay on the $800 million ESOP loan.
The loan will add about 3.5 percent to Sears's current total borrowings of $22.6 billion in short- and long-term loans. But the new borrowing does not worry the analysts because Sears has large cash reserves and substantial funds due from customers from its Sears credit-card operation.
''It does not strain the organization at all,'' said Margo F. McGlade, an analyst at Paine Webber Inc. in New York. ''This is another demonstration that Sears is willing to be a little more leveraged.''
 
Victory Despite Changes
Legislation now pending in Congress would make employee stock ownership plans less attractive from a tax standpoint. Nonetheless, Mr. Fairweather, the Sears spokesman, said the company concluded that it would end up ahead even if many of the ESOP's tax benefits were eventually repealed. Asked why Sears was acting now, instead of over the last two years when many large companies - including Procter & Gamble, ITT and Polaroid - created such plans to position themselves against takeovers and to save tax dollars, Mr. Fairweather said that Sears had only recently completed an analysis of its plan.
Although Sears executives may still harbor fears of a takeover, those concerns may not be justified. Mr. Weller, the Montgomery Securities analyst, said that not only have Sears's recent results been unexciting in its core retail operation, but also that Sears would be difficult to acquire because of the fight that could be waged in regulatory circles by the retailer's Allstate Insurance Company unit.
Allstate ''could set up financial and legal roadblocks in every jurisdiction in America,'' Mr. Weller said.
 
Sears Sued Over Prices
BUFFALO, Dec. 21 (AP) - Sears, Roebuck & Company was sued today by the New York State Attorney General, Robert Abrams, who said that the retailer had falsely advertised low prices and duped customers. Sears denied the accusations.
''I think the behavior here is not only illegal, it's unconscionable,'' said Mr. Abrams, who had sued Sears three years ago for false advertising.
He contended in the suit, filed in New York State Supreme Court in Buffalo, that the retailer was charging the same or higher prices under its new ''everyday-low-price'' plan than it did under its old pricing policies. The effort began in March.
Mr. Abrams said his office monitored Sears's advertising and store prices on about 20 items for 18 months throughout New York.
In a telephone interview from Chicago, Michael C. Bozic, the chairman and chief executive of Sears's merchandise group, said: ''It's very curious that after 18 months of discussions with us, Mr. Abrams can come up with only a few items that are questionable in an inventory of over 100,000 items. It's also curious that he would announce a lawsuit against us at the very height of the Christmas season.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: S (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (96%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEARS, ROEBUCK & CO

SUBJECT: EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (ESOP); STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCKS (CORPORATE) EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (93%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); COMMON STOCK (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); BONDS (76%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (73%); 

PERSON: BERG, ERIC N



597 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: As Labor Pool Ebbs, Factories Fish Harder

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA

 BODY:
Ronald P. Sandmeyer, a man who patrols the shop floor in a three-piece suit and provides holiday turkeys to all hands, exudes old-school attitudes about how to run a business. But that does not extend to having unusually high employee recruitment standards.
''Don't give us your best and brightest,'' the 59-year-old head of the Sandmeyer Steel Company tells people who may know someone looking for a job. ''Give us the people who are average or mediocre and don't know what they want to do with their lives.'' 
Yet Mr. Sandmeyer has trouble finding workers to meet even his modest standards. His predicament is a measure of how hard it is for many American manufacturers to find workers these days, for reasons that embrace culture, education and demographics.
Indeed, what Mr. Sandmeyer calls the people problem is getting worse in many parts of the country, hastening America's decline as a manufacturer and undermining the ability to compete against countries like Japan and West Germany, where factory work has both higher status and the numbers of skilled workers are larger.
The problem is particularly bad in urban areas like Philadelphia, where the middle class has higher aspirations, the poor have no skills and the television-weaned youth of both groups are shocked to discover that the modern factory is still often noisy, smelly, dirty and uncomfortably hot or cold.
In places like Youngstown, Ohio, or Pittsburgh, with long traditions of factory and mill work, the situation is less dire. Still, with the nation's unemployment rate barely above 5 percent and likely to remain fairly low because of a post-baby-boom decline in younger workers, a widespread shortage of factory labor looms.
Mr. Sandmeyer calls the people problem his biggest worry in managing his family's stainless-steel company in the northeast corner of the city: ''It's held down our growth. We have not been able to gain as much market share as we would have been able to had we had more productive man-hours with capable employees.''
''This is the heartbeat of America,'' Mr. Sandmeyer said, pointing to machined rings and disks, the mainstay components in a variety of industrial equipment, as he shows a visitor around the gritty, acrid-smelling shop where slabs and ingots bought from others are cut and shaped. ''This is basic manufacturing.'' His personnel problems bring him sympathy but little help from traditional sources of semiskilled employees like vocational schools.
''We're averaging three to five job offers for every student we've got,'' said Joseph J. Colaneri, director of the Eastern Montgomery County Area Vocational-Technical School in nearby Willow Grove. With only a half-dozen students enrolled in the machine-shop program, scarcely one-tenth as many as a decade ago, the school may eliminate the courses.
 
Priest Aids in Recruiting
With imaginative searching that enlisted the help of a local priest -and has resulted in 30 percent to 40 percent of its work force being foreign-born - Sandmeyer Steel has largely managed to fill its ranks. It has succeeded despite stiff competition from large employers that typically offer similar pay but more training, more prestige, better fringe benefits and less physical discomfort.
A newly hired employee with no previous work experience is paid $5.50 an hour, Mr. Sandmeyer said. Someone with a year or two of experience and a record of dependability might get $6.50 to $8.50. He said the tight labor situation had bid up the company's wage costs.
''It's hot and dirty; it's heavy manufacturing,'' Mr. Sandmeyer acknowledged of his plant. Instead of air-conditioning, he said, ''we open all the doors and all the windows and when it gets above 90, everybody gets free soda.''
For Jay M. Wilson, head of the Steeltin Can Corporation in Baltimore, the personnel challenge facing urban manufacturers is acute. There are plenty of candidates for $6.50-an-hour starting jobs, but keeping them is a ''hair-raising'' process, he said. Some fail drug tests, some are surprised at how hard the work is and others simply have little notion of what is involved in holding any job.
 
Turnover Rate Is Up
This year through September, Steeltin had a turnover rate among hourly workers of 51 percent, higher even than the 45 percent rate for the comparable 1988 period.
''It's the most significant impediment to the manufacturing goals we want to achieve,'' Mr. Wilson said.
Mr. Colaneri, the vocational school director, predicts the situation will worsen because fewer new people are being trained to replace a generation of experienced workers approaching retirement. ''The average machinist in Philadelphia is in the mid-to-upper 50's,'' he said. ''All these people out there have gray hair.''
Mr. Colaneri said smaller companies were also hurt by an increasing mismatch between the small-shop orientation of much of the machine-parts industry and the need for sophisticated training that only fairly large companies can afford.
Mr. Sandmeyer, for one, insists that his recruitment problems have nothing to do with the fact that his company is family owned, leaving dim prospects for those who might want to work up into management.
Apart from lack of glamour, limited material benefits and other drawbacks, manufacturing also suffers from a seemingly widespread perception that it has little future. ''We as a country have created the image that there will be no jobs left in production and manufacturing,'' Mr. Colaneri said.
It is true that the nation's factory employment is in both absolute and relative decline. Today there are 19.5 million factory jobs, constituting 17.8 percent of the non-farm total, compared with 20.3 million, or 22.4 percent, in 1980.
At the same time, more efficient operations raised total factory output during the 1980's by 37 percent.
Partly because of increasing automation, Mr. Sandmeyer said the company is doing triple the business it did in the 1960's, even though the work force has dropped to 165 from more than 200.
Although there is some hope among people like Mr. Sandmeyer and Mr. Colaneri that possible cuts in the nation's armed forces could provide a larger civilian labor pool and help ease the shortage of factory recruits, they are not counting on much improvement. Even a recession will not necessarily help.
''The people problem is going to be here, regardless,'' Mr. Sandmeyer said as he contemplates turning the business over to one of his sons. ''Even if we go back to 8 to 10 percent unemployment, there's still going to be a shortage of people moving into manufacturing with the skills needed to do the job.''

GRAPHIC: American manufacturers are having trouble finding factory labor. Tony Beard operates a drill press at the Sandmeyer Steel Company, where, the company says, a tight labor supply has hampered growth. (NYT/Sal DiMarco Jr.) (pg. D1); Ronald P. Sandmeyer, president of the Sandmeyer Steel Company, calls the personnel problem his biggest worry in management. (NYT/Sal DiMarco Jr.) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3399 PRIMARY METAL PRODUCTS, NEC (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: AURORA, OH, USA (54%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (54%); AKRON, OH, USA (54%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (50%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: SANDMEYER STEEL CO (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS EMPLOYMENT (91%); LABOR FORCE (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); LABOR SHORTAGES (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); MARKET SHARE (63%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR



598 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Savings Bailout Cost Seen Rising

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 21

 BODY:
Almost 500 more savings and loan associations than initially projected by the Bush Administration are likely to be taken over by the Government under the bailout legislation, according to numbers released today by the Office of Thrift Supervision. That is sure to mean that the ultimate cost of the rescue, which has been estimated at $159 billion over the next 10 years, will be considerably higher.
At the same time, the agency reported that losses in the nation's savings and loan industry continued at near-record levels in the third quarter of the year. The industry had a deficit of $3.8 billion, just $261 million less than the record $4.1 billion loss in the second quarter. 
But while the losses were expected, the projected growth in the number of institutions to be taken over confirmed analysts' worst fears.
The agency reported that 732 savings institutions with assets of $373 billion lost $2.47 billion in the July-to-September period. The 257 units that had already been taken over by the Government lost $2.6 billion, but the 1,800 profitable institutions earned $1.2 billion.
 
Capital Cushions Not Large
If the institutions with losses had very large capital cushions, they might be expected to survive in the current environment. But the agency said the 732 had cash and other forms of tangible capital equal to only $3.02 billion. And given the rate of losses in the third quarter, the numbers show a large majority could become insolvent within about four months.
That would mean that the total number of savings institutions that are likely to fail next year will be close to 1,000, almost twice the number originally projected by the White House, when it introduced its bailout plan in March.
The numbers released today by the agency also confirm warnings issued by private economists and some regulators. L. William Seidman, chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Resolution Trust Corporation, the agency created to manage the bailout, has been hinting that the money set aside by the law would not cover the real losses. He has also said far more than the original 500 sick institutions would have to be taken over by the Government.
''This is where you see in black and white that there will just not be enough money,'' said Bert Ely, a financial consultant based in Alexandria, Va. ''And this group represents a lot of very big institutions.''
The issue of how much the bailout will eventually cost will be a central subject of hearings that are scheduled to be held at the end of January by the House Banking Committee.
President Bush last week seemed to say that his advisers felt more money would be needed, but aides backtracked on those statements.
But the statistics seemed to offer little hope that the money set aside by the bill will suffice. Even after factoring out one-time write-offs of bad real estate loans, the 732 unprofitable institutions have operating losses of $1 billion.
The third-quarter loss means that for the year so far, losses total $11.5 billion, meaning they are running well ahead of the 1988 pace, when the year's total loss was $13.4 billion, the most severe since the Depression.
 
Dim Prospects
Industry analysts said they saw little prospect for a return to profitability any time soon despite the enactment of Mr. Bush's rescue plan on Aug. 9.
Mr. Ely estimated that third-quarter losses would have been about $1.6 billion larger if not for what amounts to a continuing Government subsidy to 220 institutions rescued in 1988.
Also, as part of the Bush plan, the Government poured $8.5 billion into savings institutions under its control during the last half of the third quarter, paying off high-cost deposits. Although that reduced costs at those institutions, it appears to have done little to blunt total industry losses.
 
Where There Are Profits
Meanwhile, operating profits at the non-Government-controlled institutions slipped from $900 million to $800 million because of the recent pattern of interest rates, said James Freund, chief economist of the thrift office. He said short-term rates paid on deposits were almost as high as long-term rates savings and loans can earn on loans.
Texas savings institutions, as usual, recorded the biggest combined loss by any state, $998 million, but that was an improvement from the $1.7 billion loss a year earlier. The total loss at savings institutions in Arizona was $443 million, followed by California at $426 million, Pennsylvania at $322 million and Arkansas at $246 million.
Institutions in 29 states recorded combined losses, while 21 and the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico reported combined profits.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (64%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (64%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (91%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; FEDERAL AID (US) SAVINGS & LOANS (95%); BAILOUTS (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



599 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: European Antitrust Agreement

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Dec. 21

 BODY:
After a 16-year struggle, European Community ministers adopted a far-reaching plan today to give the community powers to review corporate mergers. They unanimously adopted a compromise plan after a bitter tug-of-war in which Britain's and West Germany's powerful antitrust bodies fought against ceding any of their powers to the bureaucracy in Brussels.
Under the plan, the European Commission, the community's executive branch, will be empowered to review mergers within the community - including those involving American or Japanese companies - in which the resulting company has revenues of more than five billion European Currency Units, equivalent to $5.85 billion.
The community's 12 member nations would effectively give up their power to review large mergers, but could continue to scrutinize deals in which the resulting company would have revenues of less than five billion E.C.U.'s.
 
'A Historic Breakthrough'
Sir Leon Brittan, the community's Commissioner for Competition, called today's agreement ''a historic breakthrough in the creation of a single European market.'' 
As Europe has moved toward that barrier-free market in 1992, merger and acquisition activity has gained momentum. American companies have made dozens of European acquisitions in the last two years to position themselves for 1992, so today's vote is of intense interest to the American business community, as well as to Europeans.
Martin Waldenstrom, president of Paris-based Booz Allen Acquisition Services, predicted that the new arrangement would result in more liberal antitrust review.
''This new merger authority will certainly see the necessity of stopping abusive mergers, but equally important, it will seek to permit mergers that are of a Pan-European interest,'' he said. ''Some mergers might be reviewed less broadly at the national level. For certain European industries to grow to the level of the United States and Japan, Europe must have a more enlightened merger policy.''
 
Several Conditions Apply
For the commission to review a merger plan, the resulting company must not only have revenues of more than five billion E.C.U.'s, but also have more than 250 million E.C.U.'s of sales within the community. One community official said that if two large American companies sought to merge, the commission could review whether the merger of their European subsidiaries threatened competition.
''The message is that any multinational that has substantial interests in Europe or is thinking of acquiring substantial interests in Europe will have to look to the commission in Brussels for agreement on its proposed merger,'' said Michael Berendt, a commission spokesman.
Today's decision by the community's industry ministers in Brussels ends an awkward situation in whch the commission, invoking the treaty that set up the community, often reviewed mergers, but its oversight was parallel to that of national antitrust bodies. The new plan sets clear lines of authority.
Sir Leon estimated that the commission would examine 40 to 50 mergers a year after the plan takes effect on Sept. 21, 1990.
Community officials said the commission would examine various factors in a planned merger including the structure of the markets concerned; actual and potential competition, both inside and outside the community; the market position of the parties concerned; freedom of choice for third parties; barriers to entry; the interest of consumers, and technological and economic progress.
Officials of the European Community had long pushed for communitywide merger authority, but Britain and its Monopolies Commission and West Germany and its tough Cartel Office were reluctant to yield their antitrust power to Brussels.
 
Debate About Thresholds
Originally, the commission had proposed reviewing all deals in which the merged company would have revenues of more than one billion E.C.U.'s, or $1.17 billion. Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands and Portugal wanted a low threshold. But Britain proposed that community reviews be limited to mergers in which the resulting company would have revenues of more than 10 billion E.C.U.'s, or $11.70 billion.
The five billion E.C.U. threshold is a compromise, and the community is to review the decision in four years. The European Commission has stated that it wants the threshold reduced to two billion E.C.U.'s, or $2.34 billion, at that time.
''Everybody agreed in principle about the need for a better system, but they didn't want their powers infringed upon,'' said Stanley Crossick, chairman of C.& L. Belmont, a Brussels-based consulting group formed by Coopers & Lybrand. ''It seems that the overlap and possible conflict between the community and individual nations have been minimized.''
In response to concerns expressed by West Germany, the commission agreed today that if a national authority believed a merger of more than five billion E.C.U.'s would have major repercussions on its national market, it could seek commission permission to conduct its own parallel antitrust review. But the actual decision will be up to the commission, although its action can be appealed to the European Court of Justice.
Under the new plan, if in a merger of more than five billion E.C.U.'s, each of the two companies gets two-thirds or more of its revenues in the same country, that merger would be reviewed by national authorities, not by the commission. For example, if Peugeot and Renault, France's two main auto makers, proposed a merger, it would be reviewed only by French regulators.
The plan would also cover mergers involving banks and insurance companies. Under a complicated formula, their revenues would be regarded as about one-tenth of their assets, so that a bank merger would be reviewed if the resulting bank's assets came to more than about 50 billion E.C.U.'s, or $58.50 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAH (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BELGIUM (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); 

COMPANY: BOOZ ALLEN HAMILTON INC (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (92%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (83%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS MERGERS (91%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA



600 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: Business Seen Raising Outlays at Slower Rate

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 21

 BODY:
The nation's businesses plan to increase capital spending 4.9 percent in 1990, compared with an 8.5 percent increase this year, the Commerce Department said today.
But next year's spending plans would include the first decline in durable-goods investment since 1986. And analysts said the report was more evidence of sluggishness in manufacturing. 
According to a survey that the Commerce Department completed in November, spending on new plants and equipment will total $490.1 billion next year. The 4.9 percent rate of increase would be the slowest since a 4.2 percent advance in 1987, the department said.
 
'Pattern of Weakness'
The report, said Lawrence Chimerine, the senior economic adviser for the WEFA Group, a forecasting group in Bala-Cynwyd, Pa., means ''capital spending is not going to be the contributing factor to the economy in 1990, at least not like it was for much of 1989.''
David Jones, an economist for Aubrey G. Lanston & Company in New York, said the survey ''reflects the pattern of weakness that is concentrated in the manufacturing sector.''
''We've had weakness in manufacturing, particularly in autos, but that's spreading now to computers, defense-related industries,'' Mr. Jones said. ''And that's causing business to turn more cautious.''
In addition to a softness in orders for manufactured goods, Mr. Chimerine said corporate debt was also a factor in the slowing of capital spending.
''A lot of companies are paying a lot of interest to service their debt,'' Mr. Chimerine said. ''It's squeezing profits, so the report is no surprise. They only question is, will it get much weaker?''
In the latest survey, manufacturing companies said they had planned a 1.4 percent increase in capital outlays to $182.8 billion, compared with a 7.3 percent increase, to $180.2 billion, in 1989.
This includes a 1.5 percent decrease in plants that produce durable goods - big items expected to last more than three years - and a 4 percent gain in companies producing nondurable goods. The last decline in the durable-goods sector was a 6.7 percent drop in 1986.
Durable-goods plants increased their investments 4.2 percent in 1989, and nondurable investments were up 10 percent.
Before adjusting for inflation, 1990 plant and equipment spending is expected to rise 6.4 percent, to $505 billion, in 1990. The latest estimate for 1989 spending is $475 billion, 10.3 percent more than in 1988.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: AUBREY G LANSTON & CO INC (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE, DEPARTMENT OF

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CAPITAL INVESTMENT CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (72%); 

 
