

1001 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: An Uneven Job Recovery Among the States

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
THE recovery in employment has been slow and halting in the United States. In some states it has yet to get under way at all.
Figures released this week by the Bureau of Labor Statistics indicated that employment fell in five states over the last year. In only two states are there now more jobs than there were when employment peaked before the recession and credit crisis caused the sharpest decline in national employment since the Great Depression. 
The accompanying charts rank the states by three measures of employment change. The first shows how much employment has grown since the job figures hit their low points for the downturn. The second compares current employment with peak levels before 2009, and the final one shows how employment levels changed in the 12 months through November.
One fact that stands out is how far employment has fallen in some of the same states where the residential real estate prices rose the most during the boom and fell the most during the bust. Florida, Arizona and Nevada are three of the four states where employment is more than 9 percent lower than it was at the peak. The other is Michigan, where the auto industry's long decline made the state an underperformer during both boom and bust.
Over the last 12 months, each of those states has performed at or above the national average, with Michigan's gain of 1.5 percent the best of the group.
That so many jobs vanished in states where homeowners are most likely to be under water, owing more than their homes are worth, is probably hampering the recovery. It is homeowners in such areas who normally would be most likely to move to areas with better job prospects, but it is also such homeowners who are least likely to be able to afford to move.
North Dakota and Alaska, two small states with oil, are the only ones with more jobs now than at the predownturn peak. The District of Columbia, home of the normally recession-resistant federal government, is also up. But over the last 12 months, the district has lagged other areas in job growth as budgetary pressures have increased. Alaska lost jobs over the period, but North Dakota continued to show the fastest job growth in the country.
Over all, government employment has been a drag on recovery. Nationally, there are fewer people working in state and local government jobs than at any time since 2006. Private sector employment is up 2.8 percent since the low, but the decline in government workers has held the overall gain to only 1.9 percent.
Nowhere is that impact more evident than in Georgia. Private sector employment has grown there at a slightly slower pace than the national average, but government employment has fallen rapidly. Over the last 12 months, local governments there have shed 3 percent of their work force, while state government employment is down 6 percent. Over all, Georgia now has virtually the same number of jobs as it did when the economy hit bottom.
North Dakota ranks No. 1 in all three measures. Three other oil-producing states -- Louisiana, Texas and Oklahoma -- are also in the top 10 on each list. On the other end, Georgia is joined by Alabama, Delaware and Rhode Island in ranking in the bottom 10 by each measure.

GRAPHIC: MAPS: These Days, Jobs Are Where the Oil Is: The recession had an uneven effect on different parts of the United States, and the recovery has also varied sharply. The best performing states tend to have oil production, which has benefited from high oil prices, while the worst have included areas where mortgage lending was particularly excessive before the credit crisis began.
 CHARTS: CHANGE IN TOTAL NONFARM EMPLOYMENT: Through November 2011, seasonally adjusted (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (76%); HOUSING BUBBLE (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); HOME PRICES (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011



1002 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COMMON SENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1849 words

HEADLINE: An Update On Some Columns From 2011

BYLINE: By JAMES B. STEWART

 BODY:
Count the T-Mobile lawyers who negotiated a multibillion-dollar breakup fee -- Adam Emmerich and Steven Cohen of Wachtell, Lipton Rosen & Katz -- and got AT&T to agree to it as among those who will actually deserve their year-end bonuses.
This week AT&T threw in the towel on its doomed effort to buy T-Mobile after promising T-Mobile's owner, Deutsche Telekom, $3 billion in cash plus valuable wireless spectrum if the merger failed on antitrust grounds, which, predictably, it did. As for AT&T's chief executive, Randall Stephenson, AT&T's lawyers and the AT&T board, which ultimately bear responsibility, I'm not holding my breath that any of them will be held accountable for this $4 billion error in judgment.
But let's save a discussion of crony capitalism for next year. It's Christmas Eve, and the failure of AT&T's $39 billion bid, the biggest deal of 2011, was just one of many developments on subjects I wrote about this year, from the gathering chill in social networking public offerings to the fall of Italy's prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi. This week I went back to some of the people and companies who appeared in my columns to find out how they've fared. 
''Cars 2'' was released in June to a critical drubbing unprecedented for a Pixar film. It also raised the specter that the quirky independence that had spawned such beloved classics as the ''Toy Story'' franchise, ''Ratatouille'' and ''Up'' had been extinguished by the heavy hand of Disney, which bought Pixar in 2006. ''Cars 2'' was still a hit by Hollywood standards -- it generated $552 million in worldwide box-office revenue -- but it turned out to be the worst-performing Pixar film ever, adjusted for inflation.
But there are encouraging signs emanating from Pixar's headquarters in Emeryville, Calif. ''This is not an executive-led studio,'' John Lasseter, chief creative officer for Pixar and Disney Animation, told Brooks Barnes, a reporter for The New York Times, this summer. Mr. Lasseter stressed that ''it's not true'' that ''Cars 2'' was influenced by Disney ownership and ''my deepest desire is to entertain people by making great movies.''
More fundamentally, Pixar's next big film is ''Brave,'' set for a June 22, 2012, release. ''Brave'' is a fairy tale (Pixar's first) set in 10th-century Scotland with a girl as the protagonist. It's not a sequel and, unlike ''Cars 2,'' has no obvious merchandising tie-ins (unless it unleashes a mania for girls' bow and arrow sets). Also in development are a dinosaur film premised on the idea that they never became extinct, and a story set inside the human mind.
The movie ''Brave,'' said Doug Creutz, an analyst at Cowen & Company, ''certainly appears to be a return to creative risk-taking in terms of the subject matter. It's important to look at Pixar's output in the context of generally declining trends in animated box office as competition has gotten more intense. Pixar may have to work even harder, particularly on nonsequels, to deliver the kind of returns that had been normal for their films. I think there's a lot riding on that film, more than normal, given the crosscurrents in the film business in general and the animation business in particular, the issues with 'Cars 2,' and the importance of Pixar to Disney.''
After saying his dealership was ''close to death'' during the financial crisis, David Kelleher, president of David Dodge Chrysler Jeep in Glen Mills, Pa., told me in July that he was cautiously optimistic about Chrysler under its new leadership from Fiat. When I called this week, he was too busy closing sales to come to the phone.
In October, Chrysler reported third-quarter profit of $212 million on a 24 percent surge in sales, in contrast to a loss of $84 million a year ago, and predicted a full-year profit. Many parts of the economy may be hurting, but the rejuvenated American auto industry is thriving. That is filtering down from Detroit to local economies across the country -- an unqualified success for the Bush and Obama administrations' controversial rescue mission.
This week a buoyant Mr. Kelleher told me that his dealership had its first 100-vehicle sales month in September since 2007, a feat it repeated in October and November. His dealership is on track to do even better this month. ''Our Jeep sales have been red-hot,'' he reported, and the updated Chrysler 300 ''is coming on strong.'' He said he just ordered as many 300s as he could get. Chrysler ''is producing flat out,'' he said, ''and they're selling everything they can make.''
On Sunday Mr. Kelleher hosted a Christmas brunch with a visit from Santa at the Concord Country Club for his employees and their families. He sent gift baskets to every employee's home and organized a toy drive that delivered over 200 toys to needy children. He handed out Christmas bonuses a week early. ''This is my first Christmas party in four years,'' Mr. Kelleher said. ''We used to do it, and I missed being able to do that. This year was such a recovery. Our people worked so hard. People went through some tough years. Let me tell you, I'm in the Christmas spirit like I've never been before.''
Hewlett-Packard may have cinched the title for most dysfunctional board ever this year after it first hired Leo Apotheker as chief executive without the full board's bothering to meet him, and then summarily fired him with a severance package that amounted to $25.4 million for 11 months of management turmoil. Meg Whitman, a board member and former eBay chief executive, stepped into the crisis as H.P.'s new chief executive in September. She quickly reversed Mr. Apotheker's ill-advised decision (made with board approval) to consider abandoning H.P.'s personal computer division, an all-too-rare admission of a strategic mistake. ''We had a C.E.O. change, strategic shifts and many new cycles,'' she conceded last month, all of which she characterized as ''distractions.''
H.P. also took a bold step by corporate standards to limit severance pay for executives who were terminated for poor performance or without cause. H.P.'s board in November approved a plan that requires executives to give up stock and option grants that haven't yet vested at the time of their exit. Ms. Whitman herself will be subject to the restrictions, which would have reduced Mr. Apotheker's bloated pay by approximately $3.6 million.
So far, Ms. Whitman has been refreshingly direct. ''We need to be simpler, clearer and more consistent -- no more surprises,'' Ms. Whitman told analysts in November. ''We need to articulate a clear direction, from business strategy to financial strategy to capital allocation strategy. The executive team is hard at work on this. One thing we do know is that we're getting back to the basics of executing business fundamentals, which, frankly, we struggled with in F.Y. '11.''
Can things get any worse for hedge fund king John Paulson, once called ''the man with the Midas touch,'' who earned $15 billion for his funds, including $5 billion for himself, by betting against the United States mortgage market? Evidently. Investors reported this month that Mr. Paulson's funds were down again in November. The flagship Advantage Fund dropped another 3 percent, bringing its losses year-to-date to 32 percent, and his Advantage Plus fund was down 3.6 percent, or 46 percent, for the year. Even Mr. Paulson's once-successful bet on gold has soured, as gold prices have fallen from a peak of more than $1,900 an ounce in September to just over $1,600 this week.
In a letter to investors in October, Mr. Paulson apologized for the worst performance in the firm's history, conceded he had been ''overoptimistic'' and said he'd learned from the experience. But if he has a new strategy, he hasn't revealed it publicly. And his Sept. 30 regulatory filings indicate he actually increased his holdings in Bank of America, one of the financial stocks that hurt his performance this year. This week, Bank of America slid to a new low of under $5. (Mr. Paulson didn't respond to requests for comment.)
One bright spot for Mr. Paulson is that many of his clients appear to be sticking with him, guaranteeing that he will remain one of Wall Street's richest men (since he's paid a flat 2 percent of assets under management in good times and bad). And in just another week, he can close the books on 2011 and start a new year with a clean slate.
In Omaha, Anthony Hardwick, the 29-year-old Target employee who organized a nationwide protest against early store openings on Thanksgiving, doesn't need to worry about working on Christmas Eve or Christmas Day -- or many other days, either.
After being asked by Target to report to work by 11 p.m. on Thanksgiving, Mr. Hardwick organized a protest on the Web site Change.org and emerged as an unlikely hero of the save-Thanksgiving movement. But since then Mr. Hardwick's hours as a shopping cart attendant have dwindled, and although he's considered a full-time employee, he's paid by the hour. ''I've only worked two shifts since Thanksgiving,'' he told me when I called this week.
''I feel pretty unique, because most people at Target are working themselves to the bone during the holiday season,'' he said. ''I watch the swap board, and if someone doesn't want to work, I offer to take it, or I pester my supervisor.'' But he's only gotten ''four or five hours here and there, whenever I can pick up a shift.''
Mr. Hardwick said Target had not told him why he wasn't getting more hours, but ''shoppers were recognizing me and stopping and wanting to talk, so I think they thought I was kind of a distraction,'' he said. Now that the media attention has died down, he's hoping for more hours and said he was eager to get back to work. (He's still working his second job at OfficeMax.)
Suffice it to say that this is not Target's version of events. When I contacted the company this week, a spokeswoman bristled at any idea that Target was retaliating against an employee for speaking his mind. ''Mr. Hardwick accepted a full-time job with another retailer at the beginning of October and adjusted his Target schedule to allow him to work one-two evening shifts a week,'' Target said in a statement. ''Since that time, he has consistently been scheduled for those shifts. There has been absolutely no change to the hours he is receiving.''
Mr. Hardwick responded: ''That's just not true.'' He said he took the OfficeMax position in September. ''It's certainly convenient that it was only after this hubbub that they cut me back,'' he said. ''I was working 20 to 30 hours a week with Target. I was pulling 60 to 70 hours a week between the two jobs. I was making good money.'' Mr. Hardwick said he filed an availability form with Target ''that says I'll work open-to-close seven days a week.''
Whatever Mr. Hardwick's future with Target, he said he'd still start his petition if he had to do it all over again. ''I've been thinking hard about the next steps, taking the voice that I was given and try to make that a permanent thing,'' he said. ''How can I empower people I work with, and people in retail, and the service industry generally?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Cars 2,'' top, led some to fear that Pixar was losing its creative independence under Disney. Not so, the director John Lasseter says. Anthony Hardwick, above, who started a groundswell for a retail-free Thanksgiving Day, says Target has cut his hours. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PIXAR ANIMATION STUDIOS/WALT DISNEY PICTURES
 NATI HARNIK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); ANIMATION (86%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (70%); MOVIE REVENUES (69%); FILM (69%); CHRISTMAS (67%); TICKET SALES (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (51%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (51%)

COMPANY: AT&T INC (94%); WACHTELL LIPTON ROSEN & KATZ (93%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (90%); PIXAR ANIMATION STUDIOS INC (83%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (58%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (94%); DTE (FRA) (58%); DTE (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (93%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (93%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (90%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (83%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (73%); JOHN LASSETER (67%); RANDALL STEPHENSON (57%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%); ITALY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011



1003 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Slight Increase Last Month In Spending by Consumers

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Consumer spending in the United States was tepid in November, and a gauge of business investment plans fell for a second consecutive month, pointing to some loss of momentum in the economy. 
But other data on Friday added to signs that a tentative recovery in the housing market was under way, which should help to support growth. The Commerce Department said consumer spending ticked up 0.1 percent after rising by the same margin in October. Economists polled by Reuters had expected spending, which accounts for two-thirds of the nation's economic activity, to rise 0.3 percent last month.
When adjusted for inflation, spending rose 0.2 percent last month after a similar gain in October.
In another report, the department said nonmilitary capital goods orders excluding aircraft, a closely watched proxy for business spending, fell 1.2 percent last month after declining 0.9 percent in October.
Shipments of these so-called core capital goods, which go into calculations of gross domestic product, also fell.
The reports tempered expectations for fourth-quarter economic growth, although many analysts still expect it to top a 3 percent annual rate after a 1.8 percent third-quarter pace.
''It appears we have a little more consumer spending but less investment spending than we thought,'' said John Ryding, chief economist at RDQ Economics in New York. ''However, we expect those two developments to cancel each other out. At this point we still look for real G.D.P. growth in the fourth quarter of around 3 percent.''
The tepid consumer spending data stood in stark contrast with the robust sales reported for Black Friday, the traditional start to the holiday shopping season. Some retailers have been forced to offer heavy discounts to get shoppers to spend.
''Retail has been very promotional and consumers have been very value-conscious,'' Best Buy's chief executive, Brian Dunn, said in a conference call last week.
Income ticked up 0.1 percent, the weakest reading since August, as wages and salaries fell. Disposable income was flat.
A strengthening in the labor market has offered some hope income growth will quicken, but analysts said the report augured poorly for consumer spending at the start of the new year.
''The lack of real income growth really raises questions as to what is going to happen to the economy in the first quarter,'' said Mark Vitner, senior economist at Wells Fargo Securities in Charlotte, N.C.
While households may be spending less, they are starting to show more interest in buying houses, the Commerce Department said Friday in a separate report. Sales of new single-family homes rose 1.6 percent in November to a seasonally adjusted 315,000-unit annual rate.
That was the highest level in seven months. In addition, the months' supply of houses on the market dropped to a five-and-a-half-year low.
Data this week showed a rise in sales of previously owned homes and surge in housing starts, but more progress will depend on the health of household finances.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); RETAILERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011



1004 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: Young and Connected, 'Office Plankton' Protesters Surprise Russia

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- On Friday afternoon, Denis Terekhov gathered together his employees for an impromptu staff meeting.
They were workaholics in their 20s -- ''office plankton,'' as they are sometimes called here -- punchy from an apocalypse-themed office party, some headed for winter vacations in Egypt and Turkey. But Mr. Terekhov had another order of business. Watch yourself, he told them, if you choose to attend Saturday's antigovernment protest.
''Any suggestions about how to behave in prison?'' someone asked, and everyone laughed. As they headed back to their work stations, the information technology director called out, ''Attorneys' phone numbers will be distributed separately!'' Mr. Terekhov was not laughing. ''Call me if something happens,'' he said, and the meeting was over.
A mystery has been unfolding here over the past month, and office plankton are in the middle of it. A critical mass of young Russians decided this month that they had the power to alter the course of political events. They organized outside the channels of mainstream politics and took the country's leadership by surprise, as other crowds have done this year in Israel, India, Spain and the United States. 
No one can say how strong this burst of citizen activism will prove to be -- whether it can recreate the crowd of 50,000 that gathered Dec. 10 in Moscow, let alone serve as the foundation of a permanent political force. But an impulse was released after December's parliamentary elections, which were widely discredited as fraudulent. It has rippled out through Russia's emerging middle class -- wired, sophisticated urbanites like Mr. Terekhov's employees -- many of whom have decided, quite suddenly, that a political system they have long tolerated is intolerable.
''I did not think for a second that people like me would show up,'' said Yuliya Fotchenko, 35, an account director. ''There are many of us in this country -- really, there are many of us. They feel that something is not right. They feel that they've been cheated. They don't trust anyone, and they want to leave the country.
''When those people started to hear the call to come out,'' she said, ''that is when the fracture occurred.''
A look at the changes in one office over the past month offers a glimpse into how this mood developed into the most serious challenge the Kremlin has faced since Vladimir V. Putin won his first term as president more than 10 years ago.
The 80 employees of the company, an Internet marketing and communications firm called Social Networks Agency, ''use Twitter, Facebook, text-message each other 100 times a day,'' like to ''hang out in cool places, showing off their Vespas,'' and, in many cases, couldn't care less who is in the Kremlin, said the information technology director, Dmitri Pitirimov, 40.
This was a period, however, when even the most apolitical Muscovites bumped up against hard boundaries erected by Mr. Putin's government. One event that flipped a switch in this group was a simple mistake: On Dec. 5, the police detained a project manager named Mikhail Kazakov, known to his co-workers by his nickname, Panda.
Mr. Kazakov, is a languid 27-year-old in skinny jeans, so disgusted with the state of Russian politics that he swore off voting eight years ago. He is equally skeptical of ''opposition ideas,'' and happened to be leaving the Red Espresso Bar with a cup of coffee that night and found himself engulfed in a crowd that had gathered to protest election violations.
Mr. Kazakov explained that he was a pedestrian, but the police ordered him to set down his coffee on the sidewalk and pushed him onto a bus. He was charged with ''actively resisting'' the authorities.
The next day, the whole office was talking about it. A second project manager had also been detained, but he was a longtime activist and it was less surprising. A designer mocked up a print of Che Guevara with the face of a panda. But behind the humor was real unease.
''There was some slight feeling of despair, because Misha was arrested for nothing,'' said Irina Lukyanovich, 23, a copy editor. ''There was a feeling that we were all unprotected.''
Mr. Terekhov, who used corporate funds to hire a lawyer for Mr. Kazakov, sat down the same day to write a newspaper column, identifying himself as a taxpaying businessman who is a natural ally of the system.
''I am an opponent of populist rhetoric, the existing economic course suits me, and I am happy to explain to anyone that for the average entrepreneur, United Russia is better than the Communist Party,'' he wrote. ''I am also an opponent of revolution: I have an elderly mother and a young daughter. But, please, can you in return show a little respect to me, to my workers, and to common sense?''
Until now, they have occupied a neutral position in Russian politics, this group. Of 80 employees, only one admitted to voting for United Russia, Mr. Pitirimov said. And only one routinely participated in anti-Kremlin demonstrations, hesitating to invite his co-workers since, as he put it, ''these events often end with detentions and clubs.''
In December, this changed with amazing speed. The night after Mr. Kazakov was detained, Ms. Lukyanovich left work and stood on the edge of a crowd that had gathered for the second time to protest violations in the parliamentary campaign. She was just watching, like a swimmer dipping her toe in the water. It was the closest she had been to a protest in her 23 years, she said.
''It is difficult to say what in particular brought me to the idea that it was worth taking part,'' she said. ''I looked at it and realized it was not as scary as I thought, and probably it was then that I decided I would attend the next rally.''
That opportunity arose four days later, when a crowd of about 50,000 people was organized via a Facebook page. Mr. Terekhov expected five or six of his employees to attend, and was shocked to discover the number was far higher, more like 20 or 25. Ms. Fotchenko, his account manager, went because ''the truth is, it was interesting to see what was happening.''
When she got there, she said, ''my consciousness was turned upside down.'' Her emotions were so powerful, she said, that she was afraid to share them on Twitter lest she come off as ''histrionic.''
''I am 35, and this has happened to me for the first time,'' she said. ''I thought, probably not everything has been lost.''
Ms. Lukyanovich, the copy editor, felt something similar.
''I associate a crowd with a herd of cattle, it goes where it is told, but here it was somewhat different -- the crowd had its own spirit,'' she said. ''When I was leaving the square I felt proud of the people who had gathered there.''
Most of their co-workers are keeping their distance, but they too, seem to be scanning the horizon for political alternatives. Mr. Kazakov, whose detention had infuriated his co-workers, remains resolutely skeptical of the whole movement -- though, ''understanding that this was an event on a national scale,'' he got a table at a restaurant close enough to the Bolotnaya Square event so that he could watch the crowd take shape.
A signal change has occurred already: Russia's opposition movement is the realm of the young. Planning meetings, once held in the musty domain of perestroika-era dissidents, are now convened at Moscow's most fashionable addresses, like the rehabilitated Red October chocolate factory. In a city obsessed with style, protest has become stylish.
Mr. Terekhov, 32, has observed this with some anxiety. He has already had a short career in opposition politics, and it left him disillusioned. It frightens him to see his employees surge forward joyfully into a movement that seeks to challenge the Kremlin. They do not understand, he said, ''that revolution is not a game.''
''No one understands the seriousness of what has happened,'' he said. ''Now it is fashionable to go to demonstrations. They are taking a risk without fully understanding the risk which exists.''
And so he gathered them together on Friday. He told them not to fight with the riot police, and that if the authorities begin to disperse the rally forcibly, to ''run to the nearest courtyard.'' On the question of whether they should go, he remained silent.
''I think it is a private decision,'' he said. ''I am not their father, I am just their employer.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Denis Terekhov spoke Friday to his employees at Social Networks Agency, advising them to be careful if they attended Saturday's planned protest in Moscow against the government. (A4)
 Mikhail Kazakov, a project manager at Social Networks Agency, was detained by the police and became the talk of the office. ''Misha was arrested for nothing,'' one employee said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (83%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); ELECTIONS (67%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); SOCIAL MEDIA (61%); TEXT MESSAGING (50%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); EGYPT (90%); SPAIN (79%); INDIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011



1005 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; STATE HOUSE JOURNAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Medicaid Cuts Are Part of a Larger Battle in Maine

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH; Murray Carpenter contributed reporting.

 BODY:
AUGUSTA, Me. -- At a town hall meeting in the rural western part of the state last week, a woman asked Gov. Paul R. LePage if he could confirm a worrying rumor she had heard: that poor out-of-staters flock here because the public benefits are so generous.
Yes, he could. ''If you come across from New Hampshire at 8 o'clock in the morning, by 4 o'clock in the afternoon you will have subsidized housing in the state of Maine,'' the governor declared. ''We need to change the rules.'' 
Mr. LePage, a first-term Republican whose destitute childhood is a well-known piece of his biography, is seeking to do just that. Calling the state's entitlement system ''a runaway train,'' he has proposed contentious changes, including some of the most drastic Medicaid cuts in the nation.
This month Mr. LePage announced a plan to reduce Maine's Medicaid rolls by 65,000 people -- about 18 percent of the total. He is asking the Republican-controlled Legislature to make childless adults and all 19- and 20-year-olds ineligible for the program, known as MaineCare, and to tighten income requirements for parents. He also wants to eliminate an array of optional benefits, including dental care and room and board at assisted living centers.
Hundreds of people descended on the State House last week to protest the cuts, which Mr. LePage says are crucial not just to put the state on sound financial footing but to change a national perception that Maine, more than most states, encourages dependency.
''The issue is basically fairness and equity,'' Mr. LePage said at the town hall meeting in Salem Township, where he answered pre-screened questions from a polite crowd of about 100. ''We have a very small population of people who pay their taxes, want an efficient government, and they are very generous in wanting to help. What they do not like is people taking advantage of the system.''
With his combative style, Mr. LePage, the first Republican to win the governor's office here in two decades, has brought more tumult to Augusta than the low-key capital has seen in years. Soon after his inauguration in January, he clashed with the state's N.A.A.C.P. leaders after they questioned why he had declined invitations to meet with them. In March, he ordered a mural depicting Maine's labor history removed from a state building, saying it was too favorable to unions.
With his fellow Republicans in the Legislature, who last year won control of both chambers for the first time since the 1970s, Mr. LePage cut taxes by $150 million, streamlined regulations and pushed for a right-to-work bill, with the goal of drawing more businesses and higher-income residents to Maine.
The Medicaid battle will be his biggest fight to date. Even if the Legislature approves Mr. LePage's Medicaid cuts, the federal government could reject some of them. The new federal health care law prohibits lowering Medicaid eligibility, and only a few states have received waivers to do so on a limited basis.
Responding to questions in a news conference at the State House about whether the cuts might fall afoul of federal law, Mr. LePage said, ''Well, put me in jail, and we will go from there.''
Mr. LePage declined, through a spokeswoman, to be interviewed for this article.
The state's Department of Health and Human Services, which administers the program, is facing a $221 million budget shortfall. But Democrats maintain that the gap is due more to poor planning by the LePage administration than to growth in Medicaid enrollment and that Mr. LePage is using a false pretense to push an ideological agenda. His administration has said that enrollment growth accounted for only $6.5 million of the shortfall.
''This is absolutely about philosophy,'' said State Representative Emily Cain, a Democrat from Orono who is the House minority leader. ''The governor has taken every opportunity to try to build up the perception that MaineCare is fraught with fraud when in fact it's not.''
Kevin Raye, the Republican president of the State Senate, said he agreed with Mr. LePage that Maine was overly generous with public benefits and needed to pull back. ''It was expanded by design, and I really think it's part of the reason the Democrats lost their majority in Maine,'' Mr. Raye said. ''We need to make sure the folks who are the most vulnerable are the priorities: those with disabilities, poor elderly and children.''
According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, 27 percent of Mainers were covered by Medicaid in 2008, the most recent year for which complete data is available, compared with 20 percent of the population nationally. Only California and the District of Columbia had higher percentages enrolled, the foundation said.
Maine's spending on Medicaid is also higher than the national average, according to the National Association of State Budget Officers: it spent 28.6 percent of its budget on Medicaid in 2010, the group found, compared with 22.3 percent nationally.
Last week, lawmakers heard testimony from several hundred people who oppose the cuts, including Medicaid recipients, advocates, doctors and owners of assisted living facilities that might close if the cuts are approved. The Maine Center for Economic Policy, an independent nonprofit group, said the cuts would eliminate more than 4,000 jobs around the state, and the Maine Hospital Association said that hospitals would lose at least $30 million in state and federal payments.
Pauline Gudas of Lewiston testified that she would have to quit her job to care for her elderly mother if the cuts passed because Medicaid would no longer pay for her assisted living facility. But Ms. Gudas, 55, said she had voted for Mr. LePage and agreed with him that the state was too generous.
''There needs to be changes, and I absolutely understand that,'' she said.
But David Neverland of Benton, who is disabled and would lose a portion of his health care coverage under the plan, said that because Mr. LePage had pulled himself out of poverty and succeeded in life, he unfairly expected the same of all poor Mainers.
''He seems out of touch with what the reality is here,'' said Mr. Neverland, 58. ''This is a state of poor people, and most of us who get this support, 95 to 97 percent of us, really need it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Opponents of Gov. Paul R. LePage's planned cuts to Maine's Medicaid system rallied at the Capitol on Dec. 14. Governor LePage, left, wants to reduce the state's Medicaid rolls by about 18 percent of the total.(A11)
 Protesters gathered outside the State House office of Gov. Paul R. LePage of Maine after the proposed cuts were announced. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CRAIG DILGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); TAX LAW (73%); TAX RELIEF (72%); RIGHT TO WORK LAWS (71%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (50%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (50%)

PERSON: PAUL LEPAGE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUGUSTA, ME, USA (93%) MAINE, USA (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011



1006 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Wage Floor To Be Raised In 8 States In New Year

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Eight states will ring in the New Year with a higher minimum wage, under state laws that require wage floors to keep apace with inflation. San Francisco, one of the few cities that sets its own minimum wage above the federal level, is also raising wages for the lowest-paid workers in the new year. It will become the first big city in the country to require companies to pay their workers more than $10 an hour.
The minimum wage increases in Arizona, Colorado, Florida, Montana, Ohio, Oregon, Vermont and Washington will be 28 cents to 37 cents an hour, according to the National Employment Law Project. That is an extra $582 to $770 a year for a full-time minimum wage worker, and resets these states' minimum wages to $7.64 to $9.04 an hour. 
At that higher end is Washington State, which will become the first state in the nation to set its minimum wage above $9 an hour. For reference, the federal wage floor for most workers is $7.25 an hour.
About one million minimum-wage workers will be affected by increases in the eight states, according to the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research organization. An additional 400,000 workers who make just above minimum wage will also most likely get a raise because many employers adjust their pay distribution for all employees when there is a new minimum.
Most of the minimum-wage workers affected in these states are women, over the age of 20 and white, according to the institute's analysis of Labor Department data.
A national minimum wage was first enacted during the Great Depression and has been raised sporadically by Congress rather than being automatically indexed to price changes. Adjusting for inflation, the federal wage floor was highest in 1968.
The eight states, as well as 10 others and the District of Columbia and a handful of cities, however, have set an even higher wage floor, which in many cases is indexed to consumer price increases. How that floor changes, and when, depends on the state. Labor organizers are planning additional minimum wage campaigns in several other states next year, according to the National Employment Law Project.
The broader economic effects of raising the minimum wage are disputed.
Some economists argue that raising the cost of labor will actually hurt low-wage workers because employers will decide to hire fewer people. Others say the increased spending power of low-wage workers will create jobs to support added demand.
It is not clear that employers will actually offset the cost of higher wages by employing fewer workers. Some economists say they believe that these higher labor costs might be passed along to consumers in the form of higher prices for goods and services, and that employers might also just accept a smaller profit margin when wages rise.
A landmark 1994 study by David Card and Alan Krueger, who is now the chairman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers, found that raising the minimum wage did not lower employment in a case study of a local fast-food industry.
Dozens of similar studies, looking at a variety of locations and industries, have been published since then, and the results have run the gamut.
For example, a study of San Francisco airport employees, conducted in 2004 by economists at the University of California, Berkeley and the University of Waterloo, also found that increasing wages did not lower employment, and instead reduced employee turnover. But a literature review of a variety of studies published around the same time came to the opposite conclusion.
Whatever the effect on total employment, for those workers who do receive raises in the new year, the added income still will not be enough to push their families above the poverty line.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (69%); LIBERALISM (66%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011



1007 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Debating Financial Strategies for the New Year After a Downbeat 2011

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
FOR any investor paying attention to political and economic issues, 2012 looks bleak.
Republicans and Democrats in the United States seem incapable of agreeing on anything. In Europe, the search for a solution to Greece's debt problems has been overshadowed by questions about the continued existence of a single currency for the European Monetary Union.
Add at least a half-dozen crucial elections in 2012 -- including ones in France, Greece and the United States -- and a political transition in China, and pessimism about what lies ahead seems fairly rational.
Yet a year ago, the outlook for 2011 seemed the exact opposite of what the year turned out to be. Economists were raising their growth projections, consumer confidence was improving and a tax-cut compromise in Congress was putting more cash into pocketbooks. An accelerating economic recovery seemed in the offing. 
Of course, that was not how the year turned out. Probably the only investors bragging about their returns are the ones who perfectly timed their purchases of United States Treasury bonds and gold -- two asset classes that most analysts said were overvalued as 2011 began. (Of course with gold, the people gloating the most are the ones who sold it at its August peak.)
So how should you think about next year? Should you hide for one more year, or charge forward with some sort of plan?
For this week's column, I asked a group of people whose opinions have impressed me to ponder this conundrum. Next week, I will share some final thoughts and 2012 predictions from the group of five strategists and investors that I have spoken to each quarter. My hope is that in mixing theory and practice, the two columns will offer investors a better sense of both how they should and will act next year.
THE ENVIRONMENT When Standard & Poor's downgraded the credit rating of the United States in August, investors rushed to buy Treasury bonds, the very asset that had just become less creditworthy. This might seem utterly irrational, but it did not surprise Daniel Kahneman, the psychologist who won the Nobel in economic science for work that became the foundation of behavioral economics.
''Treasuries just feel safe,'' he said. ''When you're worried, you go to the safe thing. It's quite a normal reaction.''
I called Mr. Kahneman because I had been reading his new book ''Thinking, Fast and Slow'' (Farrar Strauss & Giroux) and was fascinated by his division of people's thinking into two systems. System 1 is fast; it's intuition. System 2 is slower and moderates System 1; it's the ability to reason.
But what do we do if our System 1 thinks everything looks bleak next year and our System 2 agrees?
''My System 1 also says it is going to be a bad year,'' Mr. Kahneman said.
But feeling that does not equate to shunning the market. ''I'm not really sure that the situation is very different from what it usually is,'' he said. ''The same advice about prudence that would carry you in other years would carry you in next year.''
(His greater concern is with what the last three years have done to the general sense of optimism among the young. ''That's a profound change,'' he said. ''Where that will go, what shape that will take I cannot predict.'')
Practicing a prudent strategy is tougher than it sounds, particularly given the extremes of the last five years. To go from housing and stock markets that were always going up to a housing market that is bumping along the bottom and a stock market that goes up and down seemingly at random is tough to take.
Daniel Egan, head of behavioral finance for the Americas at Barclays Wealth, said that from Jan. 1 to Aug. 1 the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index moved up or down at least 2 percent on 8 percent of trading days. From Aug. 1 to Dec. 20 that number more than tripled, with 27 percent of trading days having moves greater than 2 percent one way or the other. And 13 percent of the days in the second period had swings greater than 3 percent, compared with none in the first period.
''This is the worst kind of environment to attempt market timing in,'' Mr. Egan said. ''Odds are, you'll miss the rally when one or more uncertainties -- euro, U.S. fiscal policy, U.S. election -- resolves itself, leaving you with the volatility but not the return you'd hoped for.''
SIZING THINGS UP One thing behavioral research has shown is that people who lose a lot of money in a particular asset class will often shun it or at least underweight it as an investment in the future.
''Individuals who got burned by T-bills in the 1970s and were burned by inflation underweighted T-bills the rest of their lives,'' Mr. Egan said. ''2008 being a credit crisis, people are going to have an experiential prejudice against banks for the losses they experienced.''
He added that people who believed real estate was an investment that would always go up were likely to have similar biases.
Assessing these objectively will be crucial for investors who want to make reasoned decisions. Meir Statman, professor of finance at Santa Clara University, said investors needed to step back and think about how the fear of losing even more money was directing their decisions.
''Fear makes us think the world is coming to an end; it makes us think that stocks will never go up and always go down,'' he said. ''This is where logic is going to have to intrude.''
One helpful tip from Michael Mauboussin, chief investment strategist at Legg Mason Capital Management and the author of ''Think Twice: Harnessing the Power of Counterintuition'' (Harvard Business Press), was to assess the experts providing the advice and understand the likelihood that their predictions will be right.
''In some realms, experts will predict very well,'' Mr. Mauboussin said. ''If you turn on the weather, you can be sure if you need an umbrella. When we're dealing with economic, political and social areas, we cannot predict as well.''
Robert Seaberg, managing director of planning services at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, advocates that people be a bit more realistic in their thinking about investments.
''The world now is more about risk management than about investing,'' Mr. Seaberg said. ''Forget the home runs. Guard against the really big losses, and go for singles and doubles. You win more games than you lose.''
ACTION OR INACTION The collective wisdom of this group is almost entirely to take the long view and stay the course next year.
''My advice to individual people is the less attention you pay to this stuff, the better you are going to be,'' Mr. Mauboussin said. ''You need to have a prudent strategy, a risk tolerance and a time horizon and then don't get too caught up in it.''
Of course, the long horizon sounds great if you are at the beginning of it. If you are among the baby boomers in retirement or about to be there soon you may scoff at this. But Mr. Statman, who turns 65 this year, said the last thing people of his generation needed to do was try to find a way to get their money back. They need to live with less.
''The saddest stories I read about are of baby boomers trying to recover their losses by going into risky investments, and they end up in Ponzi schemes or very miserable positions,'' he said.
As for Mr. Kahneman, he has no plans of adjusting a strategy that has served him well. ''I made one big decision, which was how much I want to have in equities and how important it was for me to be protected from inflation,'' he said. ''Then I leave it to other people. I don't even want to know how things are going day to day.''
If it's good enough for a Nobel laureate, it might be good enough for you.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Daniel Kahneman is a psychology professor who won a Nobel in economic science for work that became the foundation of behavioral economics. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT EELLS/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Robert Seaberg, an executive at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, advocates that people be more realistic in their thinking about investments. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); CREDIT BUREAUS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX LAW (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (65%); CURRENCIES (57%); AWARDS & PRIZES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); GREECE (90%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011



1008 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Protests Fail To Block Legislation In Hungary

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
BUDAPEST (Reuters) -- Thousands of Hungarians protested outside Parliament on Friday, hours after opposition lawmakers chained themselves to barriers in an unsuccessful effort to block legislation that they said represented a blow to democracy.
Former Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany, a Socialist, was among the lawmakers protesting, and he was briefly detained along with several other opposition lawmakers.
Parliament, where the governing center-right Fidesz Party of Prime Minister Viktor Orban has a two-thirds majority, passed a financial stability law despite objections by the European Union, a development that could imperil talks about a new financing accord with international lenders. 
Hungary is trying to secure the deal with the International Monetary Fund and the union so it can retain access to market financing next year, but informal talks have collapsed, leading to a downgrade in Hungary's debt rating to junk status by Standard & Poor's.
Parliament also passed an election law that critics said would alter the electoral system to favor Fidesz.
Andras Schiffer, leader of the small opposition party Politics Can Be Different, whose deputies chained themselves outside Parliament, told a crowd of about 3,000 people that the prime minister had betrayed voters.
''Viktor Orban wants to cement an economic policy that will push Hungary into default,'' Mr. Schiffer told the crowd.
Mr. Gyurcsany was forcibly removed from the morning demonstration, as were the lawmakers from Politics Can Be Different, known by its Hungarian abbreviation L.M.P.
The police later detained several Socialist lawmakers who tried to prevent L.M.P. activists from being removed. Those detained were later released.
''Orban's autocracy can no longer tolerate even peaceful opposition and protest,'' Mr. Gyurcsany said after he was released.
The police said they had intervened because the protesters, by chaining themselves to the barriers, had blocked members of Parliament from entering the building and had failed to obey requests to leave.
The government's financial stability law makes permanent a flat personal income tax, which the opposition says would tie the hands of future administrations. But the government contends that the tax will improve the economy's competitiveness.
Peter Kreko, an analyst at Political Capital, a research organization, called the police action unacceptable. ''These pictures which show police removing opposition lawmakers, well, we see such photos in undemocratic countries,'' he said. ''What the government can achieve with this is that its isolation from the West can become much stronger, both economically and politically.''
Since it was swept into power last year, Mr. Orban's government has tightened its grip on the news media, curbed the rights of the top Constitutional Court, renationalized private pension assets and dismantled an independent budget oversight body.
The United States has urged the government to respect democratic freedoms.
On Thursday, Mr. Orban rejected the European Commission's request to withdraw two disputed measures, a decision that could derail talks with lenders about a new financial accord. Analysts say the dispute could set off a market crisis.
The European Commission president, Jose Manuel Barroso, had asked Mr. Orban to scrap the two measures -- the financial stability law and legislation on Hungary's Central Bank, which the European Central Bank says infringes on the Hungarian bank's independence.
The commission said it was assessing Hungary's response.
The government has argued that the financial stability law is essential to maintain stable budgets and debt reduction.
Parliament passed several amendments to the Central Bank bill on Friday to bring it in line with the European Central Bank's requests, but it left some contentious parts in. Parliament is scheduled to vote next week on the Central Bank bill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ELECTION LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); BUDGETS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); FOREIGN LENDING (55%); INCOME TAX (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (92%) HUNGARY (97%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011



1009 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: For Santorum in His Iowa Bid, Never Finding That Moment in the Sun

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.

 BODY:
OSCEOLA, Iowa -- One of two things is certain to happen in the next few weeks to Rick Santorum, after making more than 300 campaign stops in Iowa and draining his personal bank account. Either he will finally catch fire (and there are signs he may be gaining some ground). Or he will become the sole major Republican candidate to never have been among the Iowa front-runners this year (outside of Jon M. Huntsman Jr., who did not really try).
In a contest dominated by candidate appearances that avoid close contact with journalists and skeptical audiences, Mr. Santorum stands out. Even at the tiny gatherings with a handful of voters that still make up a good deal of his stump-speech tour -- though his crowds have been getting bigger -- he typically talks for an hour or more, exhausting the questions and, sometimes, the questioners.
In some ways, Mr. Santorum is an ideal Republican candidate for Iowa. A longtime opponent of abortion rights and gay marriage, he has the credentials to appeal to the evangelical voters who make up a substantial portion of caucusgoers. 
He has a compelling personal story, including a young daughter with a genetic ailment, that he wraps into a broader narrative about how the nation's fiscal and economic ills are the consequences of a breakdown of marriage and family. And he was a two-term senator from Pennsylvania, a state that the Republicans hope to pry from Democrats next year.
Despite all but living in Iowa this fall, he has struggled to widely connect with voters as the Jan. 3 caucuses near. It might have been different, some Republican activists say, if Mr. Santorum had some of the magnetism or catchy proposals that propelled his opponents at various times in the race, like Rick Perry's swagger or Herman Cain's ''9-9-9'' tax plan.
And while polls show that many Iowa Republicans remain open to changing their minds, time is running out for Mr. Santorum. Even his best news in months -- an endorsement this week by Bob Vander Plaats, a prominent social conservative leader here -- was muddled by controversy over whether Mr. Vander Plaats had been seeking contributions from the candidates that he considered endorsing, which he denied.
In a deeper sense, Mr. Santorum has what one top Iowa Republican described as a ''minivan'' problem, which he himself admits: He does not have the political equivalent of sex appeal. And it does matter, even to social conservatives, who have flirted with a string of more charismatic candidates like Mr. Perry, Mr. Cain, Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota and former Speaker Newt Gingrich.
Few of Mr. Santorum's Iowa supporters are as admiring as Tom Steen, a Republican activist in Indianola who praises him for his consistent message and his effort to respond to every question by ''digging hard, back to his core'' of faith and family regardless of the political consequences.
That is a quality that social conservatives value deeply, he says, but it does not always translate immediately into support.
''He doesn't have that charismatic, initial likability to him,'' Mr. Steen said.
''Is he electable? I don't know,'' he added. ''But I'm not going to let that bother me. He probably has few friends, but I bet you the friends he has are extremely close friends.''
That Mr. Santorum often finds common ground with social conservatives is easy to see, especially among small crowds in small towns. There always seems to be someone -- a home-schooling mother in a three-person audience in Sigourney, Iowa, for example -- who responds to one of his personal stories.
At a lunchtime gathering at a pizza restaurant here in Osceola on Monday, he gave a woman whose son had a heart transplant a lengthy account -- both heartfelt and clinically detailed -- of his 3-year-old daughter's chromosomal disorder, which he said kills 99 percent of its victims in their first year of life. She is his seventh child, though he pointed out that ''we have a little boy in heaven'' who died shortly after birth.
Along with a string of endorsements from influential evangelicals and others -- state officials, pastors and a prominent radio host in Sioux City -- it is these moments, shared with thousands of rural voters in intimate settings over the last several months, that explain why some Iowa polls now show him gaining ground. Many supporters simply say they just trust him, and they know, and like, what he stands for.
In an interview, Mr. Santorum suggested that he would consider it a victory to finish better in the caucuses than Mrs. Bachmann or Mr. Perry, who are scrambling for the same evangelical support.
But that sort of connection can only go so far, and may be undermined by Mr. Santorum's penchant for discursive and meandering digressions that bounce from history to legislative procedure to constitutional analyses -- even to weather patterns.
A question here about turning environmental regulation over to states -- red meat for Republican candidates -- drew a complicated answer about the need for some federal regulation because air pollution crosses state borders.
''Environmental pollution, believe it or not, is interstate commerce, too,'' Mr. Santorum said, before he eventually turned his answer into a broader attack on President Obama.
He uses a high school metaphor to elaborate on his lack of political seductiveness. ''I always tell the story about girls coming into the dance hall, walking past us and taking a turn with some other better-looking guys, and then at the end of the evening there's old steady Eddie, who's not flashy, but he's the guy you know you want to take home to Mom and Dad.''
Yet that can sell short some of his moments on the campaign trail, where he can be surprisingly skillful, even a little mischievous, in lacerating his opponents' proposals. When a supporter of Representative Ron Paul challenged him to get rid of the Federal Reserve, Mr. Santorum deftly turned the question back, asking what should replace it.
''The Treasury,'' the Paul supporter replied, tentatively.
Mr. Santorum pounced: ''I'm a little concerned about this president overseeing the money supply in this country. It would be incredibly politicized, much more than it is today.'' (The Paul campaign says the power should rest with Congress.)
Mr. Santorum is exasperated by how he says the news media ignores him, something he has gradually turned into one of his more successful stump lines. He exhorts the growing numbers who turn out to see him -- 70 in Indianola on Monday night, and the 50 the next morning in Pella -- not to let the media decide their vote, a criticism he extends to Fox News.
An analysis of candidate appearances on the network by Media Matters, a liberal group, shows that between Dec. 1 and Dec. 18, Mr. Santorum, with 37 minutes, trailed every major rival competing in Iowa: Mitt Romney (126 minutes), Mr. Perry and Mr. Paul (51 minutes each), Mr. Gingrich (52 minutes) and Mrs. Bachman (76 minutes.) He also trailed them for the period since Oct 1.
Steve Grubbs, who was Mr. Cain's state chairman, said he sees Mr. Santorum gaining late momentum. But he questioned whether the news media was to blame for his lack of traction.
''You've got to earn that newsworthy moment,'' said Mr. Grubbs, a former chairman of the Iowa Republican Party. ''Part of succeeding when you are not the front-runner is having an issue packaged in such a way that captures the imagination of voters.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rick Santorum at a Republican Party dinner in Indianola, Iowa, on Dec. 17. One supporter praised him for ''digging hard, back to his core'' of faith and family. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (76%); MARRIAGE (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); WRITERS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); ABORTION (67%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (67%); RELIGION (52%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (92%); RICK PERRY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); JON HUNTSMAN (56%); HERMAN CAIN (56%); MICHELE BACHMANN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011



1010 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
AFTER LEADER'S DEATH,
NORTH KOREA URGES RESPECT
North Korea urged South Korea to ''show proper respect'' over the death of its leader, Kim Jong-il, calling the South's decision to express sympathy for the North Korean people but not to send a government delegation to Mr. Kim's funeral next week ''an unbearable insult and mockery of our dignity.'' Page A4
PAKISTAN DENIES RUMORS 
Pakistan lurched between crises with its military chief, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, dismissing talk of a coup and canceling a visit from a top American general, a sign that Pakistani fury at the United States over airstrikes that killed 26 soldiers is far from abating. Page A4
ISRAEL-TURKEY PACT SEVERED
The Israeli government has canceled a $141 million contract to supply Turkey with an advanced aerial intelligence system, Israeli officials confirmed. Page A6
PRAGUE MOURNS HAVEL
Mourners filled the historic St. Vitus Cathedral in Praque and gathered outside by the thousands for the funeral Mass of the playwright, dissident and former president Vaclav Havel. Page A9
National
TROUBLE AND STRIFE
FOR SNEAKER RETAILERS
When retailers around the country put the new retro Nike Air Jordan basketball shoe on sale they got a surge of shoppers so intent on buying a pair of the $180 shoes that in at least a dozen cities the police had to be summoned, and in a few cases, arrests were made. Page A11
GINGRICH BLASTS RON PAUL
Newt Gingrich turned his fire on Representative Ron Paul of Texas, saying that his Republican opponent had to answer for political and investment newsletters that included racist, antigay and anti-Israel passages. Page A14
New York
CROSSING THE DELAWARE
WITH MORE ACCURACY
There are few images as enduring in American history as the one captured in the portrait of George Washington crossing the Delaware in 1776. But it has been given a factual update. Page A17
SOME MOMENTS IN CRIME
Crime Scene revisits the subjects of some of its most memorable columns, from a rash of gate thefts to quarreling musicians. Page A16
Business
EIGHT STATES TO RAISE
THE MINIMUM WAGE
Eight states will ring in the New Year with a higher minimum wage, under state laws that require wage floors to keep pace with inflation. Page B1
FLYING THE MORE SOBER SKIES
After decades of frenzied competition and staggering losses, domestic airlines have taken a more sober approach to the business of flying. Fancy fuselages and lively paint jobs have gone the way of free meals, pillows and checked bags. Page B1
MF GLOBAL TRUSTEES AT ODDS
The trustee liquidating MF Global's trading operations said that his office was seeking the return of more than $600 million from the failed firm's British arm, potentially setting up a cross-border fight over customer money. Page B3
Sports
WITH RELOADED BENCH
CELTICS SEEK ANOTHER TITLE
The Boston Celtics expected at Madison Square Garden on Sunday won't look all that different from the the team that defeated the Knicks there on April 24. Page B8
Arts
IN BUFFALO, BROADWAY FLOPS
CAN STILL EARN MILLIONS
Only 20 to 30 percent of Broadway shows ever turn a profit, but even the flops can make millions on the road. And few cities are as profitable as Buffalo, mainly because of the huge base of subscribers at Shea's Performing Arts Center. Page B1
CAMEOS FOR TELEVISION
It's been a good year for cameos and guest spots on television series. But because he is a baseball fan, Neil Genzlinger writes, his favorite moment came last month when Wade Boggs, the Hall of Fame third baseman, turned up on one of television's most underrated series, ''Psych.'' Page C1
OP-ED
Gail Collins PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (84%); WAGES & SALARIES (84%); BOMBINGS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); COUPS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); ARMED FORCES (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); LIQUIDATIONS (70%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (69%); HISTORY (67%); WRITERS (67%); BASKETBALL (66%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (65%); ARRESTS (64%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (62%); AIRLINES (50%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%)

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (88%); NEWT GINGRICH (51%); RON PAUL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (71%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011



1011 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Politics Stamps Out Oil Sands Pipeline, Yet It Seems Likely to Endure

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER and DAN FROSCH; John M. Broder reported from Washington, and Dan Frosch from Denver.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration confirmed this week that a provision in the payroll tax bill requiring a quick decision on the proposed Keystone XL oil pipeline from western Canada to the Gulf Coast will probably lead to cancellation of the project.
But does that mean the $7 billion pipeline project is dead forever? Will its cancellation curb the inexorable global demand for the exploitation of Canada's huge oil sands deposits? Will it affect the concentration of atmospheric carbon dioxide in beneficial ways and slow the pace of climate change?
The answer to all three questions, barring unexpected changes in the politics and economics of oil, appears to be no.
The tax cut and unemployment insurance extension approved by Congress on Friday included a Republican provision that requires President Obama to make a decision on the pipeline within 60 days. The State Department, which has authority over cross-border pipelines, said that it would not be able to complete the required environmental review within that short a period and would be unable to recommend that the project be approved. White House officials said Mr. Obama would honor the agency's advice. 
But State Department officials and industry analysts say there is nothing to prevent TransCanada, the company proposing to build Keystone, or a different pipeline operator, from submitting a new application to build a similar project.
A State Department official said that such an application would have to begin from scratch and require a new series of public hearings and the completion of another environmental impact statement, a process that in Keystone XL's case has already taken more than three years.
A spokesman for TransCanada said the company was not ready to throw in the towel and believed that only a small portion of the pipeline's route required additional State Department review. Mr. Obama announced last month that he was delaying the project for at least a year to take a new look at the segment that crosses the environmentally sensitive Sand Hills region of Nebraska and the Ogallala Aquifer, which provides water to much of the Great Plains.
Shawn Howard, the TransCanada official, said that the problem could be resolved by rerouting 100 miles of the 1,700-mile pipeline.
''The only outstanding question that remains involves just that short section of line,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''The rest of the route has been confirmed.''
As eager as TransCanada is to build the new pipeline, there is sufficient pipeline capacity for now to carry current production of crude from the Alberta oil sands to American refineries. With relatively minor adjustments, there will be enough space on existing transborder pipelines to handle expected flow until 2018 or later, analysts said.
It is only after 2020, when production of Canadian crude is expected to double from today's 1.5 million barrels a day, that the pipeline crunch becomes severe. Canadian companies are already planning to expand current pipelines and build new ones to carry oil to the coast of British Columbia for export to Asia.
Notably, however, one such proposed project, Enbridge's Northern Gateway pipeline from Alberta to Kitimat, British Columbia, has been stopped for at least a year by the Canadian government because of strong opposition on environmental grounds from local landowners and indigenous populations.
Nonetheless, Stephen Harper, the Canadian prime minister, said in a television interview this week that if the United States blocked the Keystone pipeline, Canada would look to China as a market for its oil.
''I am very serious about selling our oil off this continent, selling our energy products off to China,'' Mr. Harper said.
The oil sands formation in western Canada, sometimes referred to as tar sands because of the density of the extracted oil, contains an estimated 1.75 trillion barrels of recoverable oil, the second-largest known deposit of oil in the world after Saudi Arabia's. Extracting, transporting and refining it, however, is energy intensive, producing 15 percent to 80 percent more carbon emissions over its life cycle than average petroleum products. Thus James Hansen, an eminent climatologist at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, has warned that if development of the oil sands deposits goes forward unchecked it means ''game over,'' in his words, for the global climate.
Removing and burning all that oil, Dr. Hansen has warned, would spew so much carbon dioxide into the atmosphere that it would be impossible to stabilize the climate and avoid disastrous global impacts.
But experts in oil economics say that the oil is coming out of the ground in any event because of steadily growing global demand and the heavy investment in infrastructure already made in Alberta.
Andrew Leach, an associate professor of natural resources at the Alberta School of Business, said that Canada would continue to develop its oil resources, but that it would need additional pipeline capacity in coming years to meet export demands, whether to the United States or Asia. Slowing or stopping a particular project -- Keystone or Northern Gateway, for example -- could temporarily slow production in the oil sands, but eventually that resource will be tapped, he and others said.
Dr. Leach added, however, when asked about Dr. Hansen's argument, that even at the higher end of production estimates, it would take until the year 3316 to burn all the oil, so the atmospheric effect would be gradual. And it would make no difference to the atmosphere whether it was burned in the United States, China or elsewhere, he noted.
The oil industry continues to invest in Canadian oil sands because such projects are expected to produce a steady stream of crude for decades, said Philip Budzik, a research analyst at the Energy Information Administration, a federal research organization. He said that over time, costs and the energy required to extract the oil would come down as technology improved.
''In an era of limited accessibility to overseas oil resources and in contrast to conventional oil fields that produce at their peak production level for only three to six years before going into decline,'' Mr. Budzik said, ''long-lived productive assets such as oil sands provide a company some insurance as to its long-term financial viability.''
He said that canceling Keystone would probably slow the rate of increase of oil sands production, but only until new routes to Asia or North America were found.
Bill McKibben, an environmental activist and professor at Middlebury College, led two big anti-Keystone protests at the White House that factored into Mr. Obama's decision in November to delay the project.
He argues that without a predictable United States market for Canadian oil, and a major new pipeline to deliver it, the oil sands project would be crippled.
''Right now, they've only got a straw into that formation, but they want to quintuple production over the next five years,'' Mr. McKibben said. ''They want that stuff out of there and they have to have some kind of pipe to get it out.''
''Stopping Keystone will buy time,'' he said, ''and hopefully that time will be used for the planet to come to its senses around climate change.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (92%); OIL SANDS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); APPROVALS (78%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBERTA, CANADA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011



1012 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: The Agreement on the Payroll Tax

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As ''The House Backs Down'' (editorial, Dec. 23) correctly points out, Democrats will have a much more difficult task facing them when negotiating the payroll tax extension for another 10 months. 
But instead of omitting the tax-increase-for-millionaires provision from their bargaining position, President Obama and Congressional Democrats should make this an absolute deal-breaking position going forward.
Now that they have gained the high ground, and Speaker John A. Boehner has egg all over his face, Democrats must seize the moment and do what the vast majority of Americans want them to do: ensure that millionaires pay their fair share.
The president and the Democratic minority in the House have shown signs of growing backbones, and this is a true Christmas gift for all Americans.
HENRY A. LOWENSTEIN New York, Dec. 23, 2011
To the Editor:
You are being unfair to House Republicans when you describe them as being obstructionist. On the contrary, they led a principled and honest attempt to do what most Americans would want: to extend the middle-class tax cuts for one year.
It is the Democrats (and Senate Republicans) and President Obama who were obstructionist. Did they really believe that a two-month extension would be better than an extension for one year? House Republicans had to agree because they did not want the tax cut to end on Jan. 1. That would have been political suicide.
Congress will waste valuable time rehashing the extension for a year when its members could be doing something else. This is not a ''clear victory for President Obama.'' It is another fiasco in the long line of fiascos that he and the Democrats have foisted on the American people.
BILL FIRSHEIN Middletown, Conn., Dec. 23, 2011
To the Editor:
In the ninth inning of the payroll tax-unemployment benefits game, we perhaps saw the full panoply of back-room and voter-driven politics that describes the American version of democracy. We need more of both going forward.
There is nothing wrong with politics engaged in the back room, away from the madding crowd. Back-room negotiations often produce results -- with luck, good ones.
But when that process breaks down, more transparency and public involvement are needed to move even the most obstructionist of politicians toward making government work. That is apparently part of what happened this time around.
This time, the president spoke out loud and clear, and reports are that constituents contacted their representatives to voice their displeasure with yet another stalemate.
Politicians must not forget to bring in their voters from the bench when needed, and voters must be ready. It is the only way to keep misguided minority interests from thinking that they completely rule the roost.
BRUCE NEUMAN Sag Harbor, N.Y., Dec. 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CHRISTMAS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011



1013 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Lessons Learned, or a Sign of Things to Come?

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The central conflict that has dogged Speaker John A. Boehner is this: how to answer the hue and cry of the far-right corner of his conference -- especially the most conservative of the 87 freshmen who often seem willing to walk to the point of legislative disaster over a point of principle -- and actually get things done.
Mr. Boehner finally chose to slam the door on his highly opinionated conference on Thursday afternoon, telling lawmakers that their view on the extension of the payroll tax break was no longer of interest. He was, he said, ready to accept the Senate's short-term solution, which passed both chambers and was signed by President Obama on Friday. 
When Congress reconvenes next month at the start of what inevitably will be a highly contentious election year, Mr. Boehner will find out whether his less-experienced members have finally been schooled in the way of divided government or if they will dig in against him, posing a potential threat to his leadership.
''I'm disappointed in our entire leadership team,'' Representative Tim Huelskamp of Kansas said in an interview Friday with CNN, adding that he had considered returning to the Capitol to protest the vote. ''After one year watching what's occurred and seeing our conservative principles falling by the wayside numerous times in these debates, we've got a lot of progress to make.''
But the fact that neither Mr. Huelskamp, nor any other House Republican, dared to return to Washington to object to the legislative action Friday suggests that there is little current likelihood of a credible effort to challenge Mr. Boehner's leadership.
Indeed some freshmen members said the experience left them rethinking the hard-line stance that their class took all year as they flowed from one victory to the next, vexing Senate Democrats and the White House.
''Our freshman class wanted to do a lot of things,'' said Representative Sean Duffy of Wisconsin. ''Did we accomplish them all? No. But what I've come to realize is that in divided government you don't always get what you want.''
Mr. Boehner says he is confident he has control.
But the question remains of what will happen next year, when these Republicans have a chance to speak back to their speaker -- there is no mute button in the caucus room. And the answer has enormous political implications for Mr. Obama, who has spent much of the year being foiled by the party; for Congress, where at least the Democratic-controlled Senate is very much in play; and for the continuing debate over how to right the nation's fiscal ship.
''No one is perfect,'' Mr. Duffy said. ''But the speaker has had a tough job. He has tried to build a coalition behind a lot of different ideas, and I think it has garnered him respect in the conference, but when you do that you open yourself up to the issues we have faced over the last couple of weeks.''
It doesn't help that Mr. Boehner often cannot rely on the help of his deputy, Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, who is more closely aligned with the more conservative members of the House and who differed with Mr. Boehner on how to proceed on the payroll tax.
Mr. Boehner has also more than once appeared to miscalculate just how far his conference is willing to go to stand up for legislative ideas they strongly support, even when they have zero chance of becoming law. ''We had a real communication challenge,'' said Representative Jack Kingston of Georgia, who was elected in 1992. ''We might wear the same Republican jersey and allegedly we are on the same team, but sometimes we are going to call plays in a different direction.''
The raucous Republican freshmen, aided by many of the more senior conservative members, have helped the House majority achieve goals that would have seemed impossible in previous divided governments.
They have controlled the spending conversation from the first battle, when new members demanded that Republicans hold out for billions more in cuts than those sought by House appropriators. It continued through the debt ceiling showdown, in which a plan to cut $2.1 trillion over 10 years was formed, as well as during the intense focus on changes in entitlement programs.
But the payroll tax became the wrong battle at the wrong time, framed in the muddiest of terms from Day 1 by Mr. Boehner's chamber. Many Republicans -- notably Mr. Cantor and Mr. Boehner himself -- initially suggested that the tax cut for middle-class earners was not a great idea and would not stimulate the economy. The House did pass a one-year extension bill, but with so many unrelated policy components -- including one to revamp the unemployment insurance system -- that Senate Democrats would not brook it.
When the chambers could not agree on how to get to a one-year plan, the Senate passed a short-term measure, but House Republicans balked, saying they needed a one-year extension on a tax cut many had not supported at all.
For Republicans, being associated with a potential tax increase right before the holidays ended up being too much to handle politically, as editorial boards and Republican senators rained criticism on their heads. Further, unlike in every other major partisan fight this year, Mr. Obama did not back down.
''We should have been on high ground from a public relations standpoint,'' Mr. Kingston said. ''But part of the speaker's job in any legislative body is to make the tough decisions that are in the interest of the country and in the interest in protecting his majority. One of the things we found out during the shutdown in the Newt-Clinton years is that you couldn't base your decisions on Republican red-state sentiment, or you leave your members in purple states vulnerable.''
It is a balance that is ever perilous. ''As a former member of leadership,'' Mr. Kingston said, ''I can say every day in leadership you are living on thin ice.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Speaker John A. Boehner corralled the Republican freshmen on the payroll tax. Some, like Sean Duffy, below left, softened a hard-line stance, but Tim Huelskamp was ''disappointed.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
HARRY HAMBURG/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (90%); SEAN DUFFY (73%); TIM HUELSKAMP (73%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011



1014 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: As Rumors Buzz, Pakistan's Military Denies Talk of a Coup

BYLINE: By SALMAN MASOOD and MATTHEW ROSENBERG; Salman Masood reported from Islamabad, and Matthew Rosenberg from Kabul, Afghanistan.

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- Pakistan lurched between crises on Friday with its military chief, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, dismissing talk of a coup and canceling a visit from a top American general, a sign that Pakistani fury at the United States over airstrikes that killed 26 soldiers is far from abating.
Concern has been growing in Pakistan and abroad that the two crises -- a political struggle that has pitted civilian officials against the military, and the fraying relations with the United States -- are distracting from deeper threats to stability, primarily the faltering economy and the festering Islamist insurgency. The Pakistani Taliban offered a sharp reminder of their potency on Friday, killing one soldier and abducting 15 in an attack on a paramilitary post in the country's northwest, the police said. The Taliban militants threatened to kill the captives. 
But the focus in Pakistan on Friday was talk of a military coup. The rumors were set off a day earlier when the prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, warned publicly of a conspiracy to topple the government. He was careful not to openly accuse the military of plotting a takeover, but he did say that it must answer to the elected government and could not operate as a ''state within a state.''
It takes very little to stoke rumors of a coup in Pakistan, where the military has ruled for more than half of the country's history. Even now, nearly four years after the restoration of democracy, the military remains Pakistan's dominant institution, and it largely dictates foreign policy and national security matters.
But the military has made no apparent moves to assert control over the government, despite the widespread perception among its ranks and the broader population that Pakistan's squabbling political elite is incapable of taking on the country's challenges. Most analysts and Western officials have concluded that General Kayani remains committed to democracy, for now, as long as the military retains its behind-the-scenes power.
''The army will continue to support democratic process in the country,'' General Kayani said in remarks to troops stationed in the northwestern tribal areas where the army is struggling to contain the Pakistan Taliban, an offshoot of the Afghan insurgent movement, according to a military statement released Friday.
The statement said that General Kayani, on a visit on Thursday, told the soldiers that talk of a coup was being ''used as a bogey to divert the focus from the real issues.'' But, he emphasized, there would be ''no compromise on national security.''
The military did not elaborate on what General Kayani meant. But his remarks were seen as a reference to allegations that Pakistan's ambassador to the United States, backed by the elected government, had sought Washington's help in heading off a coup and asserting civilian control over the military in the wake of the American raid that killed Osama bin Laden in May. The allegations are particularly inflammatory because many Pakistanis see the United States as an enemy, despite the nations' long-standing alliance.
A Pakistani-American businessman, Mansoor Ijaz, has claimed that Husain Haqqani, then the ambassador, wrote a memo containing the appeal and asked Mr. Ijaz to convey it to Adm. Mike Mullen, who was then the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Mr. Haqqani has denied writing the memo, and the civilian government has backed him. But he was forced to resign, and his passport was confiscated upon his return to Pakistan in late November.
Suspicion has since spread to President Asif Ali Zardari, who this month had admitted himself to a hospital in Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates, complaining of chest pains. His sudden departure helped to incite the latest round of coup rumors, though he has since returned, and he began working again on Friday.
The military has signaled that it believes the memo was the work of Mr. Haqqani, and possibly the president. It has urged the Supreme Court open an inquiry, a decision the justices are weighing.
Ikram Sehgal, a defense analyst and former army officer, said that Mr. Gilani's statement on Thursday had ''strengthened the military's conviction'' that the government was behind the memo. He warned that any attempt by the elected government to remove General Kayani would lead to a mutiny by the military's rank and file, who have little faith in civilian authorities.
''Things don't look stable at all,'' Enver Baig, a former senator from the governing Pakistan Peoples Party, said in an interview on Friday.
But in one positive sign for the government, Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry said Friday that he would not validate a military coup. Past military rulers have gotten the court to endorse their takeovers.
Relations with the United States, meanwhile, appeared to sour further. Pakistan's military, at the order of General Kayani, canceled a meeting with the chief of the United States Central Command, Gen. James N. Mattis, a senior Pakistani official said. The meeting, to have been held Monday, had been called to explain the findings of the American investigation into the November airstrikes that killed 26 Pakistani soldiers at posts on the Afghan border, said the official, who asked not to be identified because the meeting had not been previously announced.
The Pentagon on Thursday acknowledged mistakes before and during the airstrikes. But it also said that the Pakistanis had erred. Pakistan's military responded by calling the investigation ''short on facts.''
Online Correction: December 23, 2011, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misspelled the name of Yousaf Raza Gilani.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUPS (92%); ARMED FORCES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); TALIBAN (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); HISTORY (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011



1015 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1641 words

HEADLINE: A Fateful Christmas Meeting

BYLINE: MEREDITH HINDLEY


HIGHLIGHT: On Dec. 25, 1861, America almost went to war with Britain. 

 BODY:
On Christmas morning 1861, the steps of all three Lincoln sons could be heard pounding on the floorboards of the White House. The eldest, Robert, had recently arrived home from Harvard, to join his brothers, 8-year old Tad and 11-year-old Willie. The reunion of the Lincoln clan was a bright spot on what was proving to be a less than cheery Christmas. The Union had lost several key battles, while the Confederacy seemed no closer to collapse. Then, before the president could sit down to Christmas dinner with his family, he had yet another matter to attend to: deciding whether the Union could risk war with Britain. 
At 10 a.m., Lincoln's cabinet filed into the White House, shaking off the damp cold that had descended on Washington. They had left the bosoms of their families to debate whether the Union could sustain a war against both Britain and the Confederacy. Correction: An invigorated Confederacy. If hostilities broke out, Britain would likely renounce its neutral stance and side with the South, extending it both economic and military assistance. 
The root of the crisis was an incident that occurred in the blue waters of the Bahamas some six weeks earlier. On Nov. 8, the American frigate San Jacinto, acting without authorization, had stopped the Trent, a British mail packet, bound for Britain. A boarding party removed two Confederate envoys, James Mason and John Slidell, who were bound for London and Paris to lobby for the Rebel cause. Rather than seize the Trent, as would have been custom under prize law, the captain of the San Jacinto sent her on her way and headed for Union waters with his prisoners. 
The Union greeted the capture with glee - finally, good news for a country desperately in need of it. Needless to say, the British saw things differently. London newspapers called for war. "In one month, we could sweep all the San Jacintos from the sea, blockade Northern ports, and turn to a direct and speedy issue the tide of the war now raging," wrote the London Morning Post. The British government thrashed through options for responding, most of them bellicose. Lord Palmerston, the prime minister, set the tone for discussion when he opened up the emergency Cabinet meeting called to discuss the Trent by throwing his hat on the table and declaring, "I don't know whether you are going to stand this, but I'll be damned if I do!" 
Deciding that American hubris needed to checked, the Cabinet recommended an ultimatum: The United States should be given one week to release the prisoners or else risk war with Britain. Such an ultimatum could not be delivered without Queen Victoria's approval - and neither the queen nor her consort, Prince Albert, found the terms to their liking. Albert, who was mortally ill, worked until the wee hours of the morning on the document, softening the language to make it more palatable, thereby increasing the likelihood the Americans would agree the release. The dispatch suggested that the captain of the Trent had been acting without orders. "Her Majesty's Government are unwilling to believe that it could be the deliberate intention of the Government of the United States unnecessarily to force into discussion between the two Governments a question of so grave a character, and with regard to which the whole British nation would be sure to entertain such unanimity of feeling." Britain had given the Union a way to save face. 
The dispatch with the ultimatum sailed across the Atlantic, landing two weeks later in the anxious and waiting hands of Lord Lyons, the British ambassador. Lord Russell, the Foreign Secretary, made it very clear to Lyons that Mason and Slidell had to be released: "But if the Commissioners are not liberated, no apology will suffice," he wrote in a separate message. "The feeling here is very quiet but very decided. There is no party about it: all are unanimous." If the United States failed to release the prisoners, Lyons was to sever diplomatic relations and war would be afoot. 
Rather than officially present the terms to Secretary of State William Seward, which would start the clock ticking, Lyons opted first for an off-the-record chat. When Seward pressed him about the possibility of an ultimatum, Lyons confessed to its existence. Seward begged to see a copy. "So much depended upon the wording of it, that it was impossible to come to a decision without reading it," Seward told him. Lyons agreed to provide a copy provided its terms remained between Seward and Lincoln. Within minutes of the copy being delivered, Seward called upon Lyons. "He told me he was pleased to find that the despatch was courteous and friendly, and not dictatorial or menacing," Lyons reported.
The one-week countdown began on Dec. 23. Lyons wasn't optimistic about avoiding conflict. "There is no doubt that both government and people are very much frightened," he wrote, "but I still do not think that anything but the first shot will convince the bulk of the population that England will really go to war." In London, Russell was more sanguine, telling Palmerston, "I am still inclined to think Lincoln will submit, but not till the clock is 59 minutes past 11."
The Christmas Day cabinet meeting began with a review of Britain's terms. Seward then took the floor, urging his colleagues to agree to the release of Mason and Slidell, arguing that the Union couldn't survive a two-front war. It was quite a turnabout for Seward, who had days earlier declared to a room full of people at the Portuguese legation that "We will wrap the whole world in flames!" Seward's ardor had cooled as reports began trickling in describing Britain's war preparation and the British public's thirst for it. Some 14,000 British troops had set sail for Canada, and the home fleet was being readied for battle. 
In his corner, Seward had Montgomery Blair, the postmaster general, and Senator Charles Sumner, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Sumner didn't usually attend cabinet meetings, but an invitation had been extended because of his connections and experience. From the beginning of the conflict, he had advised against war with Britain and would do so again on Christmas morning, making a plea for arbitration. 
Others remained opposed. "Rather than consent to the liberation of these men, I would sacrifice everything I possess," wrote Salmon P. Chase, secretary of the Treasury. His visceral reaction to releasing the prisoners was tempered, however, by concern for the economic turmoil an Anglo-American conflict would unleash. He was right to be worried. Britain would enact a blockade against Union ships - one that would be far more effective than the North's blockade of the South - and vital supplies would be embargoed. The Union was already getting a taste of what that might mean for the war effort: When news of the Trent incident reached London, the British government ordered an embargo on five ships loaded with 2,300 tons of saltpeter, the main ingredient in gunpowder. The ships would be allowed to sail for America once the Trent incident was resolved in Britain's favor.
While Sumner spoke, a messenger arrived bearing France's official response. France believed that the captain of the San Jacinto had violated Britain's rights as a neutral and the United States must release the prisoners. Doing so would uphold the very rights that France and the United States had fought so hard to wrest from Britain for the past six decades. The arrival of the long-awaited news from Paris during such a pivotal meeting was pure serendipity. Seward couldn't have planned it better if he tried. France was siding with Britain, thereby providing another reason to release the prisoners.
Attorney General Edward Bates, swayed by Seward and Sumner, backed releasing the prisoners. "[T]o go to war with England is to abandon all hope of suppressing the rebellion . . . The maritime superiority of Britain would sweep us from the Southern waters," he wrote in his diary. "Our trade would be ruined and our treasury bankrupt." 
But Lincoln, like Chase, harbored doubts about taking a conciliatory approach. At the conclusion of what became a four-hour meeting, the president proposed to Seward that they both draft arguments supporting their positions. He and Seward would then face off the next day like lawyers competing in court to win the jury's verdict. 
The meeting on Dec. 26 proved to be both shorter and less combative, with the cabinet quickly agreeing to the release of Mason and Slidell. Lincoln, despite his position the day before, raised no objections. Surprised that his fiercest opponent had changed his mind, Seward asked the president what had prompted the reversal. "I found that I could not make an argument that would satisfy my own mind, and that proved to me your ground was the right one," replied the president.
On Dec. 27, Seward delivered to Lyons a 26-page letter cataloging every aspect of the incident. The letter, whose tone veered between bombastic and scholarly, acknowledged that the United States had erred by not testing the legality of seizing the prisoners in an American prize court, thereby turning its back on six decades of prize law adhered to by both Britain and the United States. To resolve the matter, Mason and Slidell would be "cheerfully liberated." 
On Jan. 1, 1862, the Confederate envoys boarded a British warship, continuing the journey that had been so dramatically interrupted nine weeks earlier. "Those who have not seen the Americans near, will probably be much more surprised than I am at the surrender of the prisoners," Lyons wrote Russell. "I was sure from the first day that they would give in, if it were possible to convince them that war was really the only alternative."

        
Showdown in the Atlantic
        
Birthday of a Nation
        
The State of the Union Is Bad
        
Lincoln's P.R. Coup
        
Lincoln's Do-Nothing Generals

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (93%); CIVIL WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); FAMILY (75%); BRITISH MONARCHS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%) Abraham Lincoln; Britain; Christmas; International Relations; The Civil War; Chase, Salmon P; Sumner, Charles; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Prisoners of War; United States International Relations; Great Britain; Disunion

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%)

PERSON: Chase, Salmon P; Sumner, Charles

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (69%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); BAHAMAS (79%); FRANCE (69%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1016 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths KOLL, DONALD MILTON

 BODY:
KOLL--Donald Milton, 78, of Newport Beach and Beverly Hills, California, passed away peacefully with his wife and family at his bedside on December 6, 2011. Don lived inspirationally for the last six years after suffering physical limitations from a stroke. Don was born in Santa Monica, California, to Milton and Edna Koll. He attended Harvard School in Los Angeles and became an Eagle Scout. 
In 2010, Don was awarded distinguished Eagle Scout buy the Boy Scouts of America. After earning a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics from Stanford University in 1955, Don joined the Air Force as a fighter pilot. Don started his real estate career building custom homes in Newport Beach and, in 1962, he founded The Koll Company. The Koll Company quickly grew into one of the leading real estate companies in southern California and has been responsible for the development of over 90 million square feet office, industrial and retail space in the last 50 years. He brought Jack Nicklaus championship golf courses to Los Cabos, Mexico, at his Palmilla and Cabo del Sol resort developments which was a major contribution to making Los Cabos a world class destination. He was an entrepreneur, a great family man and a mentor to literally dozens of people in commercial real estate throughout California and across the United States. He was Presidential appointee to the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum and the American Red Cross, and has served on the boards of CB Richard Ellis, Wells Fargo Bank, the Irvine Company, and Fidelity National Title. Don was an avid supporter of the Boy Scouts of America, Stanford University and many local charities in Orange County and Los Cabos, Mexico. Don has always enjoyed traveling the world, especially to St. Tropez and Los Cabos. He is survived by his wife Kathi, his six children and their spouses, three step-children and their spouses, 21 grandchildren, and his brother Ed. A service in his memory was held at Our Lady Queen of Angels in New Port Beach, California on Decemeber 14, 2011. In lieu of flowers, please donate to: UCLA Neuro-Critical Care Research Fund; Attn: Dr. Paul Vespa, 757 Westwood Blvd., Rm. #

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); GOLF (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (75%); AIR FORCES (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); RESORTS (73%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (70%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CHARITIES (68%)

COMPANY: MILTON CORP LTD (92%); KOLL CO (91%); THE IRVINE CO (66%); WELLS FARGO & CO (58%); CBRE GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); US AIR FORCE (57%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (54%); NATIONAL AIR & SPACE MUSEUM (54%); JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (54%)

TICKER: MLT (ASX) (92%); WFC (NYSE) (58%); CBG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (91%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (91%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (91%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (91%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (66%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1017 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths LILIEN, CHARLES "CHUCK" E

 BODY:
LILIEN--Charles "Chuck" E. 82, died Monday, December 12, 2011. He was born in Ohio, raised in Barrington, IL. Chuck graduated from The George Washington University in Washington D.C with a B.A. in Foreign Affairs and a M.A. in Government and Economic Policy, as a member of the Phi Beta Kappa Society. He served as a Foreign Service Officer in the Department of State in Maracaibo, Venezuela; Brussels, Belgium; and Washington D.C. Thereafter, he worked in international commercial banking for The Continental Illinois Bank and Trust Company of Chicago in Chicago, IL and Wells Fargo Bank International in New York; then in international investment banking for the First Boston Corporation at its New York Headquarters. 
Chuck is predeceased by his wife of 55 years, Barbara Fleming of Washington D.C.; son, John F. Lilien of Washington D.C.; and parents, Kazimir K. Lilien originally from Poland and Ruth E. Parker of Chicago, IL. He is survived by his daughter, Ann F. Singer of Northvale, NJ; granddaughter, Melissa Nazzaro and husband, Dennis Nazzaro of Huntington, MA; and grandson, Christopher Singer and wife, Dawn Singer of Henderson, NV. Chuck is also survived by his great-grandson, Dominic Nazzaro. Throughout his life, Chuck was active in many community and professional activities, including the Executive Committee of the Chicago Council on Foreign Relations, the Board of Directors of Association House (Chicago), the Advisory Board of the Council of the Americas (New York), the Committee on Foreign Commerce and Affairs of the New York Chamber of Commerce, the Board and Finance Committee of the Asheville Symphony Orchestra, the Board and Investment Committee of the UNCA Foundation (Asheville, NC) and the Endowment Committee of Warren Wilson College (Asheville, NC). Most notably, Chuck's passion for the performing arts resulted in his heartfelt work with the Asheville Area Center for the Performing Arts to fulfill their mission to build a state-of-the-art Performance Center in downtown Asheville. Although he did not survive to see this dream fully realized, Chuck's legacy and passion live on through this important project. His life-long commitment to volunteerism had a profound effect on so many lives. That commitment continues today through his family and friends. Chuck has chosen Washington D.C. as his final resting place. His ashes will be laid to rest in the family plot at The Congressional Cemetery in October 2012. Memorial donations can be made to The Performance Center in Asheville, PO Box 2745, Asheville, NC 28801 or by contacting 828-258-1850.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (69%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (67%); CEMETERIES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (84%); PHI BETA KAPPA (58%); COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS (54%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (96%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); BELGIUM (90%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1018 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1560 words

HEADLINE: Croatia's Monumental Provocateur

BYLINE: By CAROL KINO

 BODY:
ASK the Croatian artist Sanja Ivekovic about her work, and she is likely to minimize her role in it. ''It is not a genius that is making art but the collaboration of many people,'' she declared this month, speaking in heavily accented English, as she strode into the atrium of the Museum of Modern Art. ''We should be grateful not to God for giving us our talent but to the people who support us.''
Ms. Ivekovic was attending -- along with Roxana Marcoci, the Modern's curator of photography, and a huge installation crew -- to the last details of her first American survey show, ''Sweet Violence,'' which opened at the museum last Sunday and runs through March 26. It gathers nearly 40 years' worth of work by the 62-year-old artist, starting with the videos, performances and photocollages that made her name in Europe in the early 1970s and extending to more recent projects like ''Women's House,'' a continuing series of multimedia works and events begun in 2002 in collaboration with women's rights groups around the world. 
Though little known here, Ms. Ivekovic is something of a cult figure in Europe, where she has long shown in exhibitions like the Venice Biennale, Documenta and Manifesta and in the last five years has had solo exhibitions at several museums. For Europeans, part of the draw is that her work addresses their common political history, with all its fissures, in a way that ''drags the specters out into the light and allows us to confront them,'' said Charles Esche, the director of the Van Abbemuseum in Eindhoven, the Netherlands, which surveyed her career in 2009.
Enrico Lunghi, the director of the Mudam in Luxembourg, which will give Ms. Ivekovic another retrospective in June, noted that ''she is also an artist who really made her whole career outside of the commercial system.''
''You cannot compare her with Jeff Koons or even Marina Abramovic,'' he added. ''She is not a popular artist. You cannot just look at her work, you have to go deep into it.''
In many ways Ms. Ivekovic can be seen as an anti-Abramovic. Unlike that other artist from the former Yugoslavia -- who had a hugely popular retrospective at the Modern in 2010 -- Ms. Ivekovic's work does not depend on personality or spectacle but on her ability to drive into the heart of a real social situation in clear and graphic terms. Though both artists came up a few years apart, Ms. Abramovic moved to the west in 1976, whereas Ms. Ivekovic stayed in Yugoslavia, confronting the nation's eruption into civil war and the social issues that accompanied its reconfiguration into independent republics. And while Ms. Abramovic is known for exploring extreme psychological and bodily states, Ms. Ivekovic -- ''the first feminist artist in Yugoslavia,'' in Ms. Marcoci's view -- has been consistently engaged with the intersection of the personal and the political.
''Women's House,'' represented here by a series of poster-size photographs appropriated from ads for high-fashion sunglasses, is typical of Ms. Ivekovic's approach. Each depicts a glamorous model hiding behind shades, with the logo obscured by the story of an abused woman -- a tactic that upends the reading of the image, making the model look hunted and fragile. The result is an aesthetically alluring social activism, one that, like much of her work, was not intended for museums. ''They were all produced as public artworks,'' Ms. Ivekovic explained, and either inserted in magazines or plastered as posters across the cities where they were made.
The same is true of the showstopping piece in the atrium, ''Lady Rosa of Luxembourg'' (2001), an eight-foot-high gilded sculpture of a pregnant woman poised atop a phallic-looking, 34-foot obelisk. Its base is covered with words like ''kultur,'' ''la justice'' and ''bitch.''
Made for a temporary public art project in Luxembourg in 2001, ''Rosa'' is a full-scale replica of that city's ''Gelle Fra'' (''Golden Lady'') war memorial, except that the original figure -- the Greek goddess Nike -- isn't pregnant, and her pedestal is inscribed with quotations celebrating national war heroes. Ms. Ivekovic also named her golden lady for the martyred Marxist Rosa Luxemburg, quite a provocation for one of Europe's banking capitals. The piece, with its implied critique of a national symbol, set off such a public furor that it became the subject of two parliamentary debates.
Ms. Ivekovic's interest in the political developed early. Raised in an intellectual household in Zagreb, she considered studying sociology. ''I was always drawing,'' she said. ''Art came out so easily, you know? I wanted something that would be a challenge.'' In the end she took the easier path, entering the Academy of Fine Arts in Zagreb in the mid-'60s, just ahead of the European student uprisings of 1968 and the birth of a new Yugoslavian avant garde embracing Conceptualism and performance. ''It was the student culture centers where things were happening,'' she said, ''and it was exciting to break the rules.''
Of course rules in Yugoslavia differed considerably from those in other Communist-bloc countries. Under the dictatorship of Marshal Josip Broz Tito, Modernist abstraction (rather than Socialist Realism) was the officially recognized artistic style. Artists could travel freely and had some exposure to what their Western peers were doing; renegade movements were tolerated, if not widely promoted. Like her peers Ms. Ivekovic had her first solo show at a state-supported exhibition space, the Student Center Gallery in Zagreb.
Her first video, created in 1973 for an Austrian biennial with the artist Dalibor Martinis, her former partner and the father of her daughter, Anja, was a typical example of ''art that was not meant to be commodified,'' as she put it. The aim was to splice one-minute videos that questioned reality into a prime-time news program in Austria. (Though that piece was never broadcast, Ms. Ivekovic was later able to screen the 1982 piece ''Personal Cuts,'' on Yugoslavian national television.)
''Artists in the West were dealing with or fighting against the art market,'' she said. ''But in Yugoslavia, since the market didn't exist, it was from the beginning about the big political issues -- you know, about everyday life.'' To support themselves the couple worked as graphic designers.
If an art market didn't exist, other markets were evident. By the 1970s, courtesy of Tito's mix of socialism and free-market economics, women's magazines could be obtained in Yugoslavia, and their pages became fodder for Ms. Ivekovic's artwork. Often she mixed them with photographs of her own body and face, as in the 64-work series ''Double Life'' (1975-76). Each pairs a woman in a magazine ad with an uncannily similar snapshot of Ms. Ivekovic herself -- uncanny because in most cases the snapshot was taken years before the ad, suggesting that female posturing is deeply ingrained.
In Yugoslavia as elsewhere, Ms. Ivekovic said, ''the conceptual artists of the first generation were not only asking what art is, but who are the artists, what's your identity? So of course the feminist issues became interesting to me.''
Tito too was part of everyday life, Ms. Ivekovic said. ''Triangle'' (1979), an 18-minute performance that became her best-known work, was enacted one morning as Tito's motorcade passed beneath her windows. Citizens were supposed to stay indoors, but Ms. Ivekovic went onto her balcony with a bottle of whiskey and some books and mimed masturbation. Her behavior caught the eye of a security agent on a neighboring rooftop; within minutes a policeman was at her door, ordering her back inside. ''Objectively it wasn't a dangerous act,'' she said. ''But what was interesting was that it was playing with the system. My question was: Would this guy actually do something, or would he keep looking and not perform his duty?''
A decade after Tito's death in 1980 came the years of bloody conflict that sundered the former Yugoslavia, and the authoritarian, nationalistic rule of Franjo Tudjman, Croatia's first president, which ended in 1999. In the new republic, Yugoslavia's common socialist past was swept under the rug; Ms. Ivekovic's intent in some more recent works has been to sweep it back out. Her interest in working with women's groups developed in the aftermath of those conflicts too, as veterans returned, and domestic violence escalated. She has also probed other deep rifts beneath the surface of Europe.
Take ''Lady Rosa.'' At first blush the piece seemed to challenge Luxembourg's patriarchal status quo. But it also tapped into a wellspring of conflict over the first Gelle Fra. Erected by an anti-German faction at the end of the German occupation during the First World War, it was later dismantled by the occupying Nazis, then hidden for decades before being resurrected in 1985 as a symbol of Luxembourg's unity and neutrality. When Ms. Ivekovic's piece went up, said Mr. Lunghi, who had organized the original ''Lady Rosa'' project, ''she reopened this Pandora's box. All the people who fought over the Gelle Fra for 50 years, now they had Lady Rosa as a common enemy.''
Ms. Ivekovic said, ''I myself was shocked because this wasn't my intention.'' She added: ''The public space is always a social field, and it's the place where conflicts are happening. We may be living in the 21st century, but our history is with us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The first exhibition by Sanja Ivekovic, left, at the Museum of Modern Art is anchored by ''Lady Rosa of Luxembourg,'' right, in the museum's atrium. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Ms. Ivekovic often uses repurposed fashion ads. Above, an example from her ''Double Life'' series
above right, from the ''Gen XX'' series
below right, from the ''Women's House'' series. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SANJA IVEKOVIC/MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART, ZAGREB
 SANJA IVEKOVIC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (74%); PHOTOGRAPHY (73%); WOMEN (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (69%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CROATIA (91%); EUROPE (90%); LUXEMBOURG (87%); NETHERLANDS (87%); SERBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1019 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Did You Give The Doorman Enough?

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
In recent years, New Yorkers fortunate enough to indulge worries over domestic compensation have been besieged with more and more advice and debate every December -- from newspapers, magazines, parenting blogs, real-estate blogs -- on how much to tip the people who take care of our children, open our doors, adjust our radiators, park our Priuses. And yet there is little to suggest that this mountain of charts and bullet points has eased the tension. What economists cite as the vexing information asymmetries central to these transactions appear to have been rectified hardly at all.
What this means is that even after you've rifled through the data and researched the gratuities administered by your neighbors and friends, you don't know what you don't know. Your superintendent could tell you what Mrs. Parsons in 5F gave him, but presumably he won't. And Mrs. Parsons, if you ask her, is likely to abstain from the truth. 
This habit of dishonesty is confirmed in ''Doormen,'' a generalized but thoroughly convincing book about the relationships between Manhattan doormen and tenants, by Peter Bearman, a Columbia University sociologist. In a chapter devoted to Christmas tipping, Mr. Bearman determines that people frequently understate the amount they are giving for the purpose of driving down the contributions of others, and thus distinguishing themselves as among a building's more generous residents.
I would argue that people also say they give less to assuage the guilt of others who may not be giving as much (unless they are zealous members of online parenting forums, in which case inducing guilt becomes a mandate of human existence).
If Mr. Bearman were to arrive at Christmas dinner and listen to you fret about whether you tipped your doorman or your super sufficiently this year, he would not quell your anxieties but, instead, tell you that they were utterly justified. Tipping, in this view, is a complicated affair in which it is virtually impossible to establish uniformity. Tipping too little is embarrassing, but so is tipping too much, which can come with distasteful implications of hierarchy and servitude.
This past week, I set out to speak to doormen on the Upper West Side, and I can say that not one of them complained about the indignity of having been handed too much money in recent weeks. At the Austin, on West 79th Street off Columbus Avenue, where Nelson Pacheco has been a doorman for 24 years, tips have gone down over time as more renters have occupied the condominium building, he told me. He was one of the few willing to be quoted by name on the subject of tipping.
The practice of combining apartments is also not welcomed by many doormen, because it reduces the number of tenants adding to the December bounty. There is concern as well about newcomers to the city who are not inculcated in the folkways of tipping. Some years back during the holidays, one porter told me, he received cookies from a tenant who had just moved to New York. ''By the next year, she'd learned to do the right thing,'' he said.
Tipping is affected by an infinite number of variables, not the least of them personal affinity. Most doormen will tell you that everyone tips something at Christmas, but that's not quite true.
''My husband used to stiff doormen he was angry at -- not pay our sullen, sluggish doorman anything some years,'' a Riverside Drive resident said. ''I wouldn't have done it, but I came to feel all right with this. He wasn't any more sluggish or sullen after he'd been stiffed.''
Geographical distinctions still play out significantly, as well. Another West Side doorman, Guarionex Mendes, suggested that it was more lucrative, and infinitely more pleasant, to work for older people uptown than for younger people downtown. A doorman at the Manchester House for four and a half years now, he previously worked in a building on Park Avenue South.
''Young people are going 100 miles an hour,'' he said. ''They race past you, 'Hi, doorman.' They don't worry as much.''
Doormen acknowledge that there is still much more money to be made at the end of the year on the East Side than on the West Side, and that getting to Park Avenue is often the goal.
''This, you have to understand, is a working-class neighborhood,'' Bruce Madrazo, by all appearances a much-beloved West 79th Street doorman, said.
A doorman new to life in a prewar co-op on the Upper East Side confirmed that Christmastime in the employ of such a place means, as he put it, ''horse loads of money.'' Although he'd worked at this co-op for only a few months, he'd already received $4,000 in gift money as of last week, and many tips were still to come. As it happens, half the people in the building increase their tips, annually, based on seniority; so, the doorman said, he could look forward to making even more money in the years ahead.
That the city's economy is so reliant on a culture of mercurially determined generosity, from the absurdities of Wall Street bonuses on down, is, in the end, merely another mark of its extremely shaky relationship to the egalitarian.
At the turn of the 20th century in New York and elsewhere around the country, a movement took hold to abolish tipping. Samuel Gompers, president of the American Federation of Labor, thought the practice ''unwise,'' and other union leaders spoke out against tipping on the grounds that it suppressed wages and turned workers into supplicants.
''I detest this 'tipping' custom; it is base, wrong, unjust and degrading,'' L. T. Van Fleet, secretary of the barbers' union, said in the late 19th century.
''It is more manly,'' he concluded, ''to earn your living than to receive charity or bribes.''
Leaving manliness out of it, the salary cap for unionized doormen in the city is $42,000 a year, making the dependence on holiday tips significant. Surely some doormen are friendlier than others, and some more discreet, but in general it does not require a vastly different skill set to open the door of a building full of $6 million apartments than to open the door of a place where real estate is considerably cheaper. When we reward doormen at a higher rate on East 84th Street than on West 23rd Street, what we are rewarding is simply the ability to get closer to money.
E-mail: bigcity@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (MB1)
WAITING GAME: Clockwise from left: Joseph Thompson at the Ardsley, on Central Park West
the Lucerne, on West 79th Street
 and Nelson Pacheco at the Austin, on West 79th. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARENTING (90%); GRATUITIES & TIPS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); CHRISTMAS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); SOCIOLOGY (74%); CONDOMINIUMS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1020 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON PRO FOOTBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: Coughlin Walks the Walk, Albeit With a Limp

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

 BODY:
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.
Tom Coughlin limped up the ramp, on his way to the Giants' locker room, displaying his wounded left leg like a badge of N.F.L. honor. He stopped to hug Jerry Reese, his general manager, then went inside to tell his players that he would be joining the other walking wounded for treatment first thing in the morning.
Someone yelled out an old Coughlin mantra -- ''No toughness, no championships!'' -- and he responded, ''You're exactly right.'' 
Let's give Coughlin, the old curmudgeon, the credit he deserves in the wake of the Giants' 29-14 victory over Rex Ryan's Jets on Saturday at MetLife Stadium. Coughlin endured Ryan's mouthy forecasts, the mounting possibility and pressure of facing unemployment, and the pain of a late-game sideline collision with his running back D. J. Ware.
''I got it at the knee,'' he said after the Giants set up their divisional title game next Sunday against Dallas while putting the Jets on the playoff critical list. ''But I think it's also up higher.''
Way up top, in the back of his mind, was the satisfaction of having Ryan come to him with an outstretched hand -- even if it was with a squirrelly look-away approach -- and admit at his postgame news conference that the Giants, after all, ''were definitely the better team this year.''
The old-school Coughlin had reacted to the standard Ryan braggadocio early last week by saying that the ultimate statement would be made on the field. ''We won the game,'' he said, ''that's the statement.''
It wasn't pretty, that's for sure, and the Giants were in danger of coughing it up in the fourth quarter a half-hour after they appeared to be in cruise control. But if there was a turning point -- and maybe a career-saving moment for Coughlin -- it was Victor Cruz's 99-yard catch and run on a second-quarter pass from Eli Manning down the right sideline to give the Giants a 10-7 lead they never surrendered.
It can't be a bad day for the Giants when Homer Jones enters the discussion. Cruz's play was the longest in Giants history, eclipsing a 98-yard touchdown hookup, Earl Morrall to Jones, in 1966. And for those inclined to write off the touchdown to the shoddy tackling of the Jets' Kyle Wilson and Antonio Cromartie, it was Coughlin who shed his conservative skin by allowing Manning to throw from his end zone on third-and-10 at a time when his offense looked as if it had taken an early holiday.
''They had 80 yards up to that point,'' Ryan said. ''We had it in control. It was pretty demoralizing.''
Ryan's Jets, meanwhile, continued to demonstrate what has become a trademark knack of shooting themselves in the foot, which would seem to begin with their coach's habit of firing blindfolded from the mouth. Ryan capped his team's comedy of pre-Christmas errors Saturday by getting into a postgame shouting match with Giants running back Brandon Jacobs, who at one point in the exchange told him, ''Time to shut up, fat boy.''
The flying insults were thoroughly entertaining and all in an emotional vortex. But a coach should hold himself to a higher standard than getting into ineloquent squabbles with players and fans. If the Jets don't make the playoffs, and the chances are slim, Ryan will need to spend the off-season considering the likelihood that his team's disturbing lack of discipline -- Mark Sanchez throwing 59 passes in one game? -- begins with him.
For Ryan to survive and ultimately deliver around here, Coughlin could tell him about looking in the mirror, changing his ways, softening his demeanor. A championship ring was Coughlin's reward for doing that in 2007, even if the Jets took advantage of their home game Saturday to hang black drapes over the Super Bowl logos outside the Giants' locker room.
''I won't mention what I thought,'' Coughlin said when asked for his reaction to that.
His son-in-law, guard Chris Snee, said he did not think Ryan had gotten to Coughlin last week or any other week since he rode into East Rutherford in 2009 and stated his intention to have the Jets take over the territory.
''I honestly don't think he gives a damn what Rex says or what Rex thinks,'' Snee said. ''The important thing is that we put ourselves in a position to play a game next week for the division -- even if this is New Jets City.''
That drew a laugh from reporters, but what Snee was saying was that the Giants' season and perhaps Coughlin's job were far from saved on Saturday. Losing to the Cowboys would mean a 2-6 finish after a 6-2 start.
That said, beating the Jets, shutting Ryan's mouth and putting the Jets in dire playoff straits seemed to mean something to the co-owner John Mara.
''He is never going to give up,'' a fired-up Mara said of Coughlin. ''He seems to be at his best when everybody puts his back against the wall.''
Ryan won't be facing a firing squad if the Jets don't win at Miami next Sunday and don't receive the help they need from Cincinnati, Tennessee and Oakland or Denver. With all the possibilities, the A.F.C. could mimic that wild last night of baseball's 2011 regular season, as good as it gets in sports.
For the Giants, life is much simpler: beat the Cowboys, go to the playoffs.
A limping Coughlin said he would have signed up for that back in September. ''Never better,'' he said when asked how he felt, which sounded like an exaggeration for a Super Bowl champion. Then again, he had just beaten Ryan. So maybe not.
Route to the Playoffs: The winner of the Giants- Cowboys game next week is the N.F.C. East champion. The loser is out of the playoffs. The Jets must beat Miami, then they need Cincinnati and Tennessee to lose, and Oakland or Denver to lose.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Giants Coach Tom Coughlin with Jets quarterback Mark Sanchez after Saturday's game. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY HERSHORN/REUTERS) GRAPHICS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); NEW YORK JETS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1021 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2401 words

HEADLINE: The Bank on Main Street

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
Cattaraugus, N.Y.
AS winter approached, a retired secretary here named Carol Bonner was putting snow tires on her car when she noticed that her back-right rim was bent. Ms. Bonner took the car to Otto's Auto Body Shop and got bad news: the work was going to run her $244 -- more than half of her $417 monthly pension check.
Without a credit card or enough saved up to replace the rim herself, Ms. Bonner, who is 61 and cares for her sister Jane, who is disabled, did the only thing she could do: she went down to the Bank of Cattaraugus and took out a $300 loan. The bank, in a reversal of the usual process, had bailed her out before. A few years ago, when Ms. Bonner fell behind on her property taxes and was forced to sell her home, the bank's president, Patrick J. Cullen, who held the mortgage on the house, had his son Thomas buy it. Thomas Cullen, who lives in Chicago, never intended to live there. Ms. Bonner and her sister were able to stay as renters. 
''The whole thing was incredible,'' Ms. Bonner said the other day, a single pine branch hanging in her living room in lieu of a full Christmas tree, which she could not afford. ''I just didn't realize there were people like that in the world, people who would help you.
''Especially,'' she said, ''a banker.''
This has not exactly been a time of great love for bankers. Amid the continuing foreclosure crisis and Occupy Wall Street's campaign against ''the 1 percent,'' it is easy to forget that not all banks are complicated giants, trading in derivatives and re-hypothecating valueless collateral. The Bank of Cattaraugus, for example, is by asset size the state's smallest bank (one branch, eight employees, no credit default swaps) and yet it plays an outsize role in this hilly village an hour south of Buffalo: housing its deposits, lending to its neediest inhabitants and recently granting forbearance on a mortgage when the borrower, a bus mechanic, temporarily lost his job after shooting off his finger while holstering his gun.
If it sounds old-fashioned, it is. It's not the kind of bank you'll find anymore in New York City, where multiple branches and capitalizations counted in 10 figures are the norm. With $12 million in total assets, the Bank of Cattaraugus is a microbank, well below the $10 billion ceiling that defines small banks. It exists in a seemingly different universe from the mammoth banks-turned-financial-services-conglomerates, like Citigroup ($1.9 trillion in assets) or JPMorgan Chase ($2.25 trillion).
With obvious exceptions, business at the Bank of Cattaraugus hasn't changed much since 1882, when 20 prominent residents -- among them a Civil War surgeon and a cousin of Davy Crockett -- established the bank to safeguard townsfolk's money and to finance local commerce.
In its 130-year history, the bank has rarely booked a profit for itself in excess of $50,000. Last year, Mr. Cullen said, it made $5,000. He and his officers are industry anomalies: bankers who avoid high-risk and high-growth tactics in order to reinvest in their community's economy.
''My examiners always ask me, 'When are you going to grow?' '' said Mr. Cullen, a Cattaraugus native who is 64 and has the prosperous stoutness of a storybook banker. ''But where is it written I have to grow? We take care of our customers. The truth is we probably couldn't grow too much in a town like this.''
While it faces many of the same regulations that govern larger banks, it operates according to an antiquated theory of the business: that a bank should be a utility, like the power company, and serve as a broker between savers and borrowers in its community.
Cattaraugus, nestled in the woods of the misleadingly named Rich Valley, is a town of limited prospects. (''We're not on the way to anywhere,'' Mr. Cullen said.) Manufacturing, which once thrived here, has more or less died -- except for the Setterstix factory on South Main Street, which produces paper lollipop handles. The largest employer in the village is the school district, and many village residents survive, like Ms. Bonner, on pensions or government subsidies, in homes that have an average mortgage of $30,000.
Mr. Cullen's bank is the only one in town -- the next-closest is in Little Valley, seven miles away.
In this difficult environment, Mr. Cullen -- like the bank's former president, his father, L. E. Cullen -- occupies a paternal, if not quite paternalistic, position: a well-to-do man who is sufficiently familiar with the local economy that he does not use credit scores when handing out a loan.
''Numbers don't tell the story here,'' he said one day, relating the tale of an Amish customer who wanted $85,000 to consolidate his debts. Even though the man earned only $2,300 a year -- from selling greenhouse starter kits -- Mr. Cullen gave him the loan.
''If you know Amish culture, you know his sons work and that everything they earn goes to him until they're 21 or married,'' Mr. Cullen said, observing that the man had eight sons, each earning at least $10 an hour. ''So he was fine, but none of that shows up on a credit score.''
Mr. Cullen's first job at the bank was wrapping pennies for his father at age 5. When he was 9, he helped repossess a car. After two years at the Marine-Midland Bank in Buffalo, he joined the family bank as an assistant cashier -- he was 24 -- and he has been there ever since, commuting each morning to his office on Main Street from his house around the corner: a 20-second drive.
The bank remains a family business. His daughter, Colleen C. Young, is the chief financial officer, and his wife, Joan A. Cullen, is the corporate secretary (she used to keep the books, but it was thought to be improper that the bank auditor slept in the same bed as the president).
The Cullens -- there are three more children, all sons and all in finance in Chicago -- are that oddest of commodities: a beloved banking family.
''They saved our lives,'' said Duane Kelley, a retired Setterstix worker who, a few years ago, lost the house he lived in with his wife to a $15,000 tax lien. Mr. Cullen bought the house at a county land auction with the bank's money and returned it to the Kelleys. They are paying him back through a 15-year loan.
SMALL banks have been dying for 20 years. In 1990, there were 12,000 banks nationwide with assets of less than $10 billion; now, there are 7,350. The country's top five banks have, meanwhile, grown relentlessly: In 1995, they held 11 percent of all deposits; last year it was 34 percent.
For several years, the small-banking sector has been pinched on one side by the rising costs of compliance and technology, and on the other by historically low interest rates (which cut into lending margins). In the last year, though, anger over big banks' fees and mortgage lending practices has turned consumers against the mega-banks, and smaller institutions have been the beneficiaries.
The publisher Arianna Huffington has been behind the Move Your Money Project, which encourages people to take their money out of big banks and deposit it in local financial institutions. (Slogan: Invest in Main Street, Not Wall Street.) Ms. Huffington produced a video based on the Christmas banking classic ''It's a Wonderful Life'' to support the campaign. BankTransferDay.org similarly claims to have persuaded 400,000 people to switch their funds from big banks to not-for-profit credit unions. Occupy Wall Street, which has pretty much turned ''bank'' into a four-letter word, has deposited nearly $500,000 into Amalgamated Bank, a big small bank in New York City owned by the labor union Unite Here.
Edward Grebow, Amalgamated's president, posted signs in his branches supporting the movement and marched with its members in October. Perhaps as a result, the number of new checking accounts at Amalgamated has doubled in the months since it took on Occupy Wall Street as a customer. But the increased business came at a delicate moment for the bank: under new rules passed in the wake of the subprime lending meltdown, Amalgamated was forced to raise fresh capital. In September, the bank sold a 40 percent stake in its business to two giants of the private-equities markets: Wilbur L. Ross Jr., a billionaire investor, and Ronald W. Burkle, a California supermarket magnate.
According to Camden R. Fine, the president of the Independent Community Bankers of America, an advocacy group for small banks, nearly every bank regulation of the last 20 years was put in place in response to real or perceived malfeasance by the country's largest banks.
''Community banks are paying for the greed and overreach of the biggest players in the market,'' he said. ''For a small bank in Ashland, Mo., say, it's absurd to apply the body of regulation that a Citicorp has to deal with.''
The question facing community banks today is whether their current vogue can offset the abiding trend toward consolidation. Even in Cattaraugus -- population 950 -- Mr. Cullen says he receives at least two offers a week from larger institutions that want to buy him out. He claims to be unsurprised by these overtures, though his business is exceptionally simple: 80 percent of the loans in his portfolio are mortgages, a third of them arising from marital separation. (''Two people are living together; they split,'' he said. ''Now, instead of one house, you need two.'') Still, his answer to potential buyers is always the same: no thanks. ''There's nothing they can offer us,'' he said, ''that we can't do ourselves.''
The core problem at banks like his is that the comparative advantages they offer -- customer service, access to managers, an intimate knowledge of borrowers -- do not always translate to the bottom line, even if they do yield dividends in public relations.
''They do things that big banks won't do,'' said Paul Macakanja, the owner of the Jenny Lee diner, which sits on Main Street facing Mr. Cullen's bank. The diner has no photocopier, and tellers at the bank, he said, will run off copies of his menu, free of charge. ''They support you personally,'' he added, ''because your success is their success.''
It is for these and other reasons that Mr. Fine argued poignantly on behalf of small banks. They hold 20 percent of the country's assets, he said, and yet write more than half of its small-business loans. ''Customers can say, 'I know where my money is -- it's down there eight blocks away,' '' he said. ''They can walk in and talk to the president and know he isn't sucking in their money and betting against them on proprietary securities.''
Nonetheless, 400 community banks have disappeared in the last three years.
IN 1982, Mr. Cullen published a chapbook to celebrate his bank's centennial. The book contained a photograph of the bank's first president, the elaborately bearded Oscar F. Beach, and another of himself, from childhood, which bore the caption: ''Ms. Berger's kindergarten class 1953.''
''Banking, as one might imagine, is a very interesting business,'' he wrote. ''In a rural area, it is also a very important business. When customers entrust their life savings to us, we treat it as if it were our own.''
Beyond a business, Mr. Cullen sees banking as an instrument -- one that can shape and preserve the history of his village, which he cites with an archivist's fluidity. His office is cluttered with local artifacts: a mug from the Third Annual Amish Relief Auction; an old sign reading, ''Cattaraugus Chowder & Marching Society.'' One of his most treasured possessions is a leather map bag that belonged to Theodore Roosevelt, who passed through town during his New York gubernatorial campaign.
For the last six years, Mr. Cullen has owned and operated the American Museum of Cutlery across the street from his bank, which honors Cattaraugus's onetime pre-eminence in the knife-making trade.
Between his day job and his other hobbies -- antique firearms, an Irish band -- Mr. Cullen runs the Historic Cattaraugus Corporation, a nonprofit business that has purchased several buildings in town (the 1909 theater, the 1915 Ford dealership) and refurbished them and rented them out, or simply stopped them from deteriorating. The idea came to him in 1990, he said, when a schoolteacher left town and simply abandoned his house. Not long after, the garage collapsed.
The property was dangerous enough that the school district would not let students walk by. It was an eyesore; it was dragging property values down. ''I went and camped out at his new place, and when he went to work, I said, 'Listen, you can't do this to our community,' '' Mr. Cullen recalled. He persuaded the man to deed the house back to the bank. The bank paid for a renovation and eventually resold it -- at a loss of only $500, Mr. Cullen said.
From 1990 to 2003, when the historical corporation was formed, Mr. Cullen invested nearly $1 million of the bank's money in properties in the village, often getting it back, but not always. ''Banks tend not to do that sort of thing,'' he stated dryly. (His wife, more succinctly, said, ''Growth isn't Patrick's thing.'') Now, however, with grants from the state, Mr. Cullen has bought, among other things, the glorious old moldering hotel in town, and he is patiently waiting for an opportunity to put it to use.
The corporation recently acquired Mr. Cullen's most cherished local property: the 4.5-acre plot where Cattaraugus was founded (the same spot where, not coincidentally, the campaigning Teddy Roosevelt addressed townsfolk from the back of a train). Dreaming as only a small-town banker dreams, Mr. Cullen plans to rebuild the original buildings -- from the shingle maker's shop to the stagecoach station -- and open them to the public as a Colonial Williamsburg-style theme park.
''If you look at Williamsburg's Web site, they claim the park employs 3,800 people,'' he said. ''Give us 5 percent of that, I'll claim success.''
Mr. Cullen hints that there is interest in his project among certain personages in Washington -- he is a banker, after all, who knows other bankers, who know politicians -- but it would contradict the very purpose of the project, he said, to finance it with federal money. Cattaraugans know Cattaraugus. The venture will be locally grown.
''Everyone will be involved,'' he said. ''The bank, the church, local government, the people -- everyone will have a stake. Creating that experience is what it means to be American, in a sense. It's what it means to be from a place.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ONE BRANCH: An undated image, right, of the Bank of Cattaraugus, established in 1882. Above, Patrick J. Cullen, the president, and his daughter, Colleen C. Young, the chief financial officer, oversee the bank, the only one in town. (MB1)
COMMUNITY: A teller, Sandy Allen, top, served a customer, Michael Eckert, last week at the Bank of Cattaraugus. Carol Bonner, right, went to the bank this month to obtain a $300 loan for an auto repair. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN BANNON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 NEW YORK CITY: Edward Grebow, president of Amalgamated Bank. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TIRES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); FORECLOSURE (74%); CHRISTMAS (73%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (71%); PROPERTY TAX (68%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (67%); DISMISSALS (61%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1022 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2012 BMW 650I; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: Hurtling Into Maturity In Splendid Isolation

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
CARMEL, N.Y.
FOR a speed-obsessed adolescent, it may be hard to believe that a shrink-wrapped sports car is not every driver's object of desire.
But the type of car embodied by the BMW 6 Series -- call it what you will, a Gran Turismo or a gentleman's express -- once commanded the highest levels of respect. Provocatively styled and emitting satisfied burps from a V-8, or even the occasional V-12, the classic 2-plus-2 luxury liner proclaimed its owner to be a lover of the good life and the fast lane.
But in recent years, particularly in the grungier recesses of the Internet, grand touring cars have become as easy a target as the private country club. The peach-fuzz ayatollahs of the auto Web, overflowing with opinions, see the luxury GTs -- from BMW, Jaguar, Mercedes, Lexus or Cadillac -- hovering beyond reach and dismiss them as decadent toys for the comfortably retired.
Their general wonderment is that anyone would waste money on a powerful car that's not a Porsche 911, a Nissan GT-R or a cash-torching Italian exotic. They reason that the well-preserved buyers of cushier performance models have been addled by Centrum overdoses and CBS sitcoms. 
And to be honest, the 650i coupes and convertibles, redesigned for 2012, are not my idea of $100,000 perfectly spent either. But you don't have to be a silver-haired fox, or a cougar, to grasp the Bimmer's vault-on-wheels appeal.
Today's 6 Series traces its philosophy to coupe models of the same designation sold in 1977-88, though it may not equal that car's timeless styling. The revived 6 Series raced up the sales charts in 2004, despite a polarizing, coffin-back shape created by Chris Bangle, the company's design director at the time.
In 2005, BMW sold nearly 10,000 of its 6 Series in the United States, but a harsh economy and buyers' short attention spans cut sales to 2,400 last year.
The all-new 6 Series, which now shares the platform of the 7 Series and 5 Series sedans, is longer, lower and wider, including a nearly three-inch stretch in wheelbase and length. Adhering to GT tradition, the 6 Series remains blithely impractical, a stance that may evolve when BMW joins the 4-door coupe trend next year with the 6 Series Gran Coupe.
For now, the deep-dish rear seats are best reserved for short trips and smaller bodies, even though the 6 Series is longer than many midsize sedans. (The backrest angle has been tilted slightly rearward, BMW says; any gain in comfort is indeed slight.)
The company says that the updated body, designed by Florian Wendel of BMW's Munich design studio, is inspired by waves. This departs from its predecessor, which showcased the so-called flame-surfacing theme of Mr. Bangle, a design language whose merry mix of concave and convex had many auto critics clamoring for censorship.
The new car is more streamlined and direct. Its best angle is coming straight at you; a V-shape hood and front fenders stack in three levels, hinting at lapping waves. That shark-nose hood segues into a large twin-kidney grille and a full-width maw of air inlets.
Combine that bullet-train shape with punishing force and technology and the personality seems as icy and numbers-driven as ever. When a Jaguar XK driver steps from that romantic machine, you expect to see a bouquet in hand. The 6 Series owner would emerge with a cage full of lab mice that had been exposed to brutal g-force experiments.
The convertible adds sex appeal with its motorized fabric top, a five-layer sandwich that is beautifully fitted and holds weather and noise at bay. The soft top also preserves trunk space, with a surprisingly useful 10.6 cubic feet of top-down room (12.3 cubic feet with the roof raised). A thoughtful carryover is the glass rear window, which operates separately from the flying-buttressed roof and powers up from the deck to serve as a wind deflector.
Coupe or convertible, the BMW's cabin is blanketed in a new level of designer luxury, including my test 650i convertible's ivory-and-black nappa leather interior. A 10.2-inch screen generously displays navigation, audio and vehicle data. Upgrades naturally raise the price: slick ceramic-coated switches are $650, a sparkling 16-speaker Bang & Olufsen sound system is $3,700 and a leather-swaddled dashboard costs $1,500.
If you've guessed that the 6 Series can get freakishly expensive, congratulations. A new entry-level model, the 640i, holds the price to $74,475 for the coupe or $81,975 for the open-air version. The 640i gets an upgraded version of BMW's 3-liter single-turbo in-line 6 with 315 horsepower and 330 pound-feet of torque. Aided by BMW's 8-speed automatic transmission, that 640i coupe runs from 0 to 60 m.p.h. in a healthy 5.5 seconds, quicker than the last year's V-8 model.
As with the 6-cylinder version of the flagship 7 Series sedan, the 640i also whips the V-8 version's fuel economy with E.P.A. ratings of 21 miles per gallon in the city and 31 on the highway.
I tested the real brutes, the 650i versions of the coupe and convertible, priced at $83,875 for the coupe and $91,375 for the convertible. My test coupe and convertible each broke the six-figure barrier, at $100,825 and $105,025 respectively.
The new 6 Series adopts the size-down, power-up turbocharged strategy that's sweeping the industry: BMW's 4.4-liter twin-turbo V-8 spins up 400 horsepower and 450 pound-feet of torque. That's 40 more horses and 90 more pound-feet than the 4.8-liter V-8 used previously. The result is a roiling ocean of power, available any time your right foot opens the floodgate. BMW says the V-8 coupe or convertible will surge to 60 m.p.h. in 4.9 seconds, a half-second quicker than before. The mileage rating is 15 m.p.g. city and 23 highway.
An M6 version, coming in 2012, will have a twin-turbo V-8 producing roughly 560 horsepower. Yet I'm not sure why anyone would need the M, as the 6 already offers admirable power for a GT.
One might reasonably expect the hefty 6 (4,200 pounds for the coupe and 4,497 pounds for the ragtop) to feel doughy, but that's not the case. It bends the laws of physics in the manner of other big Bimmers, applying electronic wizardry to tame challenging roads with unimaginable poise.
Toggling the switch of the standard Driving Dynamics system tweaks the reactions of the throttle, electric steering, adaptive shock absorbers and a stellar automatic transmission. Choose Active Roll Stabilization for $2,000 and a set of hydraulic actuators will tighten the antiroll bars for uncannily flat cornering, then loosen them for straight-line ride comfort. Another $1,750 brings Active Integral Steering, which quickens the steering ratio for low-speed maneuvers and adds rear-axle steering for improved stability.
With both of those optional onboard systems, along with chunky 20-inch wheels and tires, the 650i felt unflappable along Route 301 near Carmel -- almost an affront to the nearby Chuang Yen Monastery, whose Buddhist monks might take one look at the lavish BMW and advise, ''Peace comes from within, do not seek it without.''
Within the BMW, however, I was completely at peace, though it never reached the level of a mystical experience. As ever, the 6 Series seems at one with itself, not its driver -- so relaxed and capable that its pilot seems to observe the action from a distance. All those digital ghosts result in a BMW that never transmits the lively sensations of a Porsche 911 or even a Mazda Miata.
Yet that's the quality the whippersnappers refuse to acknowledge as desirable: grand touring cars, whether Bentleys or BMWs, aren't trying to be sports cars. Their laid-back drivers, secure in their station, wouldn't have it any other way.
Told that a GT marks them as old and soft, owners might try their own condescending reply: Son, who cares about steering feel when you've only got one finger on the wheel?
Now, finish washing my car.
INSIDE TRACK: A cocoon for the forever young.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DEBANGLED: The new 6 Series is longer, lower and wider than the controversial Chris Bangle design that preceded it.(AU1)
SOFTIE: The convertible's five-layer fabric top steals little trunk space when it is retracted.
 LOOK THERE: Dash includes big display screen. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BMW OF NORTH AMERICA)(AU8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SPORTS CARS (90%); SEDANS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); CRUISES (70%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (65%)

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (85%)

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (85%); BMW (BIT) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (76%); UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1023 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: The Finds Of the Lost Decade

BYLINE: By PAUL LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine.

 BODY:
WITH only a week left in 2011, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has a dubious distinction: its performance has been far worse than that of a basic basket of bonds in the last 12 years. But while betting on a large-cap stock index may not have paid off over that time, it would be wrong to assume that this has been the case for all sectors of the market.
A quick glance at the numbers shows that the S.& P. 500 index of large domestic stocks has gone virtually nowhere since the technology bubble burst in 2000, while the Barclays United States aggregate bond index has returned more than 6 percent a year, on average. 
Yet long-term-minded investors who had the patience to hold a diversified portfolio have done much better than that in other types of equities, said Sam Stovall, chief equity strategist at S.& P. Capital IQ.
For instance, shares of companies that paid dividends returned nearly 8 percent a year, on average, since the start of 2000, based on the Dow Jones U.S. Select Dividend index. Several specific sectors, meanwhile, including utilities and consumer staples, posted solid gains despite the so-called lost decade, the period from 2000 through 2009 when the broad stock market lost ground.
Jeffrey Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial, is quick to point out that conservative investments weren't the only ones that thrived.
Economically sensitive sectors, like energy, also posted strong gains, along with shares of small and midsize domestic companies. They're not defensive holdings, he said. And no matter: although the economy has hit some rough patches, the S.& P. 400 midcap index and the S.& P. 600 index of small-company shares have each returned more than 7 percent, annualized, since 2000. Although that's below their long-term historical average, it outpaces both bonds and inflation. Emerging-market stocks, too, have enjoyed a strong run in recent years, even though they sank in 2011.
What does this disparate group of winning equities have in common?
One feature jumps out for James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management. ''They're not large-cap tech,'' he said. He noted that at the end of the 1990s, the S.& P. 500's performance was driven largely by a handful of the biggest growth-oriented stocks found mainly in the technology sector.
''Underneath that group, you had a lot of other types of stocks, like small caps and defensive-minded shares, that were actually being pounded,'' Mr. Paulsen said. ''But the tech boom covered that up.'' In other words, the performance of these equities was really about valuations.
William Reichenstein, a professor of investment management at Baylor University, points out that in January 2000, the price-to-earnings ratio of the S.& P. 500, based on 10 years of averaged earnings, was 43.8. That's more than double the average of around 19 since 1953, he said, which would help explain why blue-chip domestic stocks have fared poorly so far in this century.
Yet smaller stocks, dividend-paying defensive issues and emerging-market shares were all being overlooked back in the late 1990s, and, as a result, were trading at relatively attractive valuations.
Of course, all of this raises the question: What types of stocks are likely to outpace the broad market in the coming years because of their appealing valuations today?
Jack A. Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank, argues that because of the steep losses that emerging-market stocks suffered of late, their prices are starting to look attractive again.
''As the emerging markets got hammered this year, they went from trading at a 15 to 20 percent premium to the S.& P. to trading at a 15 to 20 percent discount,'' he said.
At the other end of the spectrum, Mr. Ablin argued, the group that clearly underperformed in recent years -- large blue-chip stocks in the S.& P. 500 -- also seemed to be priced at attractive enough levels to bounce back.
But Duncan W. Richardson, chief equity investment officer at Eaton Vance, argues that the investing landscape is not so clear-cut as it was after the tech bubble burst a dozen years ago.
Back then, he said, the market was divided between large technology stocks and everything else, with tech stocks looking frothy and many other parts of the market priced attractively. ''Today it's more of a horse race between equity categories,'' Mr. Richardson said, noting that this makes picking the winners that much harder.
AT the very least, investors can try to steer clear of making big bets on the potential losers.
''One key is to avoid becoming enamored with a glitzy asset class -- especially after a long period of dramatically good returns,'' Mr. Reichenstein said.
He noted that tech stocks in the Nasdaq composite index disappointed investors after their surge from 1995 to 1999. In fact, nearly a dozen years after its peak at 5,048, the Nasdaq is back only to 2,618. Similarly, he said, ''after the dramatic returns of Japanese stocks in the 1980s, the Nikkei index is selling at less than one-fourth its 1989 closing price --22 years later.''
What does that mean for investors? Well, Mr. Reichenstein said, ''now may not be the time to load up on gold.''
E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

COMPANY: LPL FINANCIAL CORP (67%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1024 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN SUNSET PARK, BROOKLYN; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: A Low-Slung District With a Very High Perch

BYLINE: By JAKE MOONEY

 BODY:
JON PAUL LUPO grew up not far away in Marine Park, but thinking back, he figures the most interaction he had with Sunset Park in those days was driving past it on the Gowanus Expressway. For his wife, Melanie, the area was even less familiar -- she is from South Dakota.
Early this year, though, after more than a decade away from New York, Mr. Lupo took a job as the communications director for Marty Markowitz, the Brooklyn borough president. Seeking a place to live, the couple toured Brooklyn's talked-about neighborhoods -- there are more than there were in Mr. Lupo's youth -- and, on a summer afternoon, found themselves atop the hill in Sunset Park (the park itself, that is). They were on one of the highest points in Brooklyn, with a view across New York Harbor that captures the Manhattan skyline and the Statue of Liberty.
''It was something that I had never seen before in my years in Brooklyn,'' Mr. Lupo, 33, said. ''It sounds a little cheesy, but we fell in love with that spot.'' 
Beyond the park, they found thriving retails strips on Fifth and Eighth Avenues, with Fifth dominated by Latin American businesses and restaurants and Eighth at the heart of Brooklyn's version of Chinatown. They found friendly neighbors, young families and express subway service. And, though Sunset Park has become known for brick, brownstone and limestone town houses, they also found many affordable co-ops near the park. Mr. Lupo would not say how much the couple paid for their three-bedroom apartment, but similar places typically sell for less than $350,000.
Exact boundaries are a matter for debate, but the Department of Housing Preservation and Development says the neighborhood lies between Eighth Avenue and New York Harbor, covering 1.5 square miles and stretching from 64th Street to 24th Street past Green-Wood Cemetery. Census data indicate that the 126,000 or so residents, on average, are less affluent than in surrounding Park Slope, Bay Ridge and Borough Park.
Jeremy Laufer, the district manager of Community Board 7, which represents the area, said Sunset Park had had to fight for attention from local government, and for its share of improvements. Lately, some have begun to arrive -- for instance, a long-promised high school, which opened in 2009; streetscape improvements on a 10-block stretch of Fifth Avenue, which was recently completed; and a waterfront park, which is still under construction.
The waterfront, where the Bush Terminal and the Brooklyn Army Terminal fueled early population growth a century ago, remains an important source of jobs in what is still a working-class neighborhood, Mr. Laufer said. Those facilities have been revitalized in recent years by offices, and biotechnology and light manufacturing businesses. An automobile importing business is scheduled to arrive within months, bringing about 350 more jobs, he said.
Housing remains relatively inexpensive. Marcin Wolynski, a 27-year-old finance worker who moved here in October after years in nonprofit jobs across the Northeast, paid $129,000 for a one-bedroom co-op near the park. He was drawn, he said, by Sunset Park's convenience and affordability, as well as its Chinese food. Mr. Wolynski, whose parents immigrated from Poland before he was born, called the area ''a pretty serious melting pot.''
His agent, Peter Bracichowicz of the Corcoran Group, who also sold the Lupos their place, says he considers Sunset Park the most affordable neighborhood, per square foot, in Brooklyn.
''Even though,'' he added, ''the prices tripled from 12 years ago.''
WHAT YOU'LL FIND
The park that caught the Lupos' attention is bounded by 41st and 44th Streets, and Fifth and Seventh Avenues. About 30 co-op buildings, many built in the early 20th century by Finnish immigrants, surround the park between 39th and 47th Streets.
But town houses are the dominant element of the housing stock. On many of the blocks between Fourth and Sixth Avenues, that means solid rows of well-preserved brownstones. Elsewhere, the buildings have brick or limestone facades, or vinyl or aluminum siding.
One thing they all have in common is that they are low to the ground: three-story houses far outnumber taller ones. Almost all of the neighborhood has been rezoned with the intention of keeping them that way, Mr. Laufer said.
A 2009 rezoning of 128 blocks limited height on side streets and allowed larger buildings on Fourth Avenue. Mr. Laufer says Community Board 7, with neighboring Community Board 12, is lobbying for limitations on Eighth Avenue, too. And the board and the borough president have convened task forces to ensure that construction on Fourth Avenue is pedestrian-friendly.
One subsection where relatively tall new condo buildings did take root, to an extent, is Greenwood Heights, an imprecisely defined stretch at Sunset Park's northern end, between Fourth Avenue and Green-Wood Cemetery. The area, a generally low-rise stretch of frame houses and industrial buildings, was rezoned in 2005. That, Mr. Laufer said, resulted in part from the fact that taller buildings had begun to appear there, and around Sunset Park, after similar height restrictions were placed on Bay Ridge and Park Slope.
Since then, he added, ''whether it was the rezoning or the downturn in the economy, we haven't seen that kind of development since.''
WHAT YOU'LL PAY
Lara Nangle, an associate broker at Citi Habitats who lives in the area, says town houses in decent condition sell for $700,000 to $800,000. They tend to be set up as two-family buildings -- either as duplexes or with rental garden apartments on the ground floor, she said.
There are some condominiums in the middle of the neighborhood, mostly near Eighth Avenue, but she said new construction was rare, adding, ''Here, there are no vacant lots, just row after row of town houses, pretty much.''
The Finnish co-op buildings, one of which the Encyclopedia of New York City cites as the first nonprofit cooperative in the United States, are still relatively inexpensive, Mr. Bracichowicz said. One-bedrooms of 550 square feet cost less than $200,000; two-bedrooms of 750 square feet run under $300,000. Maintenance tends to be low, in part because the managing boards carry little debt, and also because many buildings don't have amenities like elevators.
A few, Mr. Bracichowicz said, maintain century-old rules against buying units with bank financing. Their prices are 10 percent to 20 percent lower.
Rentals posted on Craigslist tend to cost $1,000 to $1,200 a month for one-bedroom units, and $1,200 to $1,500 for two-bedrooms.
THE COMMUTE
The N and R trains run under Fourth Avenue, with the R, a local train, stopping at 25th, 36th, 45th, 53rd and 59th Streets. The N, an express, stops at 36th and 59th Streets. Eastern stretches of the neighborhood are closer to the D, which parallels New Utrecht Avenue.
Mr. Lupo, whose mother lives in New Jersey, says the Gowanus Expressway, which runs above Third Avenue, is a handy link to area highways.
WHAT TO DO
The recreation center in Sunset Park has an outdoor Olympic-size pool, built in 1936 under the Works Progress Administration; lap swimming and children's swim classes are available in warm weather. The center also has yoga classes and table tennis. Even on a recent overcast afternoon, the area around the pool was busy with people playing volleyball, handball and dominoes, and practicing ballroom dancing.
Restaurants draw food tourists: to Eighth Avenue for dim sum, Vietnamese sandwiches and Asian groceries; to Fifth for tacos and tortas.
Melody Lanes, a bowling alley on 37th Street, has leagues, tournaments and birthday party packages.
THE SCHOOLS
Primary schools near the middle of the neighborhood include Public School 169, on Seventh Avenue, which received a C on its most recent city report card, with 39.2 percent of tested students demonstrating proficiency in English, 61.9 percent in math. At Public School 1, on 47th Street, 45.4 percent were proficient in English, 63.8 in math. At No. 94, on Sixth Avenue, the percentages were 43.1 in English and 64.4 in math.
Sunset Park's middle schools include Intermediate School 136, on Fourth Avenue, where 15.2 percent were proficient in English and 22 percent in math; at Sunset Park Prep, also on Fourth, percentages were 38.3 and 72.3.
Lillian L. Rashkis High School, on 37th Street, has about 350 students in Grades 9 through 12. Sunset Park High School, which opened in 2009 on 35th Street, was planned since the 1960s and repeatedly delayed because of financing problems, Mr. Laufer said.
''There was a chance we were going to lose this one, but the community fought back and we got it,'' he said.
THE HISTORY
The Bush Terminal, founded by the industrialist Irving T. Bush in the 1890s, eventually grew to cover 200 acres. The nearby Brooklyn Army Terminal, designed by Cass Gilbert and opened in 1918, employed more than 56,000 during World War II, according to its Web site. It handled transportation for more than 3 million troops and shipment of 37 million tons of military supplies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ORIENTATION: The view from Sunset Park, the hilltop green that gives the area its name. ''We fell in love with that spot,'' said one new resident -- who was also taken with the affordable real estate and the express subway service. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); RESTAURANTS (65%); CENSUS (64%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1025 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; ANALYSIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: With a Week to Go, Much Is Still in Play

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
Think of how many dollhouse and train sets were botched in the assembly process by exhausted, irate football players Saturday night. Here is what happened in Saturday's games and what it means for the regular season's final week.
A.F.C. East 
WHAT HAPPENED It was a very, very good day for the New England Patriots, who showed resilience in a second-half comeback victory over the Miami Dolphins and saw their archrival, the Jets, pushed to the brink of elimination with a loss to the Giants. The Patriots' defense and offensive line will be concerns going into the playoffs, but they secured a first-round bye, which will be critical for the health of left tackle Matt Light and safety Patrick Chung.
NOW WHAT? A Patriots victory next week secures the A.F.C.'s top seed and home-field advantage throughout the playoffs. To get the wild card, the Jets need to win, and need losses by Cincinnati and Tennessee combined with a loss by Oakland or Denver.
A.F.C. North
WHAT HAPPENED Big wins for the entire division. The Steelers won without Ben Roethlisberger. The Ravens and the Bengals won with everybody. The division title comes down to the final weekend, and the Bengals, with the victory over the Cardinals, combined with the Jets' loss, are now in a wild-card spot.
NOW WHAT? Baltimore plays at Cincinnati next week. Pittsburgh plays at Cleveland. If the Steelers and the Ravens wind up with the same record, Baltimore wins the division and Pittsburgh is a wild card, because the Ravens swept the Steelers this season. Baltimore should have the tougher game, because the Bengals will grab a wild-card spot with a victory. Whoever wins the division has a first-round bye.
A.F.C. South
WHAT HAPPENED The Titans' victory over the Jaguars keeps them in the wild-card race, but the more significant game happened Thursday. The Texans have already clinched the division, but they played their worst game of the season against the Colts.
NOW WHAT? The real intrigue will be at the game between the Jaguars and the Colts. If the Colts win, they could lose their shot at the first overall draft pick and Andrew Luck. There are multiple possibilities for the Titans to get a wild-card spot. The Texans are locked into the third seed even if they lose to the Titans, but after a bad loss to the Colts, they could use a victory to get some momentum going into the playoffs.
A.F.C. West
WHAT HAPPENED The wheels came off the Tim Tebow train. He was awful in Denver's loss to Buffalo, blowing a chance to win the division. Oakland's overtime victory over Kansas City eliminated the Chiefs and pulled the Raiders into a tie atop the division. The Chargers' loss to the Lions eliminated them from contention and probably doomed Norv Turner.
NOW WHAT? If the Broncos beat the Chiefs next Sunday, they win the division, no matter what else happens. But if they lose and the Raiders beat the Chargers, the Raiders win the division. If Denver and Oakland both lose, Denver wins the division.
N.F.C. East
WHAT HAPPENED The Giants' victory over the Jets eliminated the Eagles from the playoff race, but set up a winner-take-all game against the Cowboys next Sunday. The Eagles may have given the Giants a bit of help anyway. Dallas quarterback Tony Romo hurt his right hand when it smashed against Jason Babin's helmet. He was ready to return, though, until the Cowboys realized the Giants had won and they did not need him.
NOW WHAT? The game of the year is next Sunday: Cowboys at Giants for the division. An ancillary consideration is whether Tom Coughlin's job also hangs in the balance.
N.F.C. North
WHAT HAPPENED The Lions completed their renaissance by clinching a wild-card spot, their first playoff trip since 1999.
NOW WHAT If the Packers beat the Bears on Sunday night, they wrap up the top seed in the N.F.C. and have home-field advantage throughout the playoffs.
N.F.C. South
WHAT HAPPENED Buccaneers Coach Raheem Morris took another step toward the unemployment line and Cam Newton served notice he was going to terrorize the league for the next decade in Tampa Bay's 48-16 loss to the Carolina Panthers. The Falcons play the Saints on Monday night.
NOW WHAT? A Saints victory Monday secures the N.F.C. South, but the Falcons are still in good position for the wild card.
N.F.C. West
WHAT HAPPENED Not a whole lot. San Francisco's defeat of Seattle puts the 49ers in position to get a first-round bye, but their struggle to score touchdowns will give them a lot to think about heading into the playoffs.
NOW WHAT? If the Saints lose to the Falcons on Monday, San Francisco clinches a first-round bye.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (91%); NEW YORK JETS (84%); BALTIMORE RAVENS (82%); CINCINNATI BENGALS (82%); PITTSBURGH STEELERS (82%); MIAMI DOLPHINS (57%); DENVER BRONCOS (55%); PHOENIX CARDINALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (70%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (54%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (50%) NORTHEAST USA (91%); OHIO, USA (70%); TEXAS, USA (67%); MISSOURI, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1026 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION CONNECTICUT; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Offstage Improvements

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

 BODY:
EAST HADDAM VILLAGE
''MAME'' opens the 2012 season at Goodspeed Musicals' riverfront stage here in April, and as casting begins, the theater has a little something extra to offer top-level talent: housing in a new ''artists' village.''
Goodspeed has added 17 homes to its 28-acre campus in a $5.5 million project intended to bolster the fortunes of both the theater and the surrounding village. 
For years, the company has put up visiting actors, directors and technical staff members in nine significantly older houses it owns in East Haddam Village. For all their historic charm, those houses have required cast members to cope with inconveniences like shared bathrooms.
The new homes are outfitted more like hotels. Every one of the 65 bedrooms has an adjoining bath, as well as an individual thermostat, extra sound-muffling insulation inside walls and a keycard lock.
''We built this with the same philosophy as for our productions,'' said Dan McMahon, Goodspeed's director of marketing. ''Make it the best you possibly can, and it will stand the test of time.''
The design of the accommodations takes into consideration the theatrical pecking order. If you're a V.I.P. like a Tony-award winner, you will have a three-bedroom house to yourself: a yellow colonial perched on a quiet hillside overlooking the campus. Next door, six town houses are intended for directors and choreographers.
Closer to the theater, a row of seven New England-inspired houses is arranged in a crescent, porches all facing a small green and walkway. The actors will stay in these three- and six-bedroom houses; one with two private apartments is reserved for stars.
Cast members will also be housed in two side-by-side houses and a lone third a short distance from the crescent.
''I think it's fantastic,'' said Mark Walter, East Haddam's first selectman. ''It's exactly like the plans they showed us. And it fits in with the character of the village.''
Mr. Walter says he is also pleased that Goodspeed intends to divest itself of five older houses, returning them to the tax rolls and aiding the town in efforts to revitalize the village. Long-term plans call for moving town offices out of the village and redeveloping the town-owned property for shops, restaurants and residences. The houses Goodspeed will sell are contiguous to the redevelopment site.
''They want to sell to someone who wants to put in something that will enhance the actors' experience, like a coffee shop or restaurant,'' Mr. Walter said. ''And that would keep theatergoers around longer, too.''
Several years ago, Goodspeed identified upgraded housing as essential to the theater's ability to attract the best talent for its productions and to expand its offerings.
The state Department of Economic and Community Development awarded Goodspeed a $2.5 million grant to start the project. Much to the relief of Mr. McMahon, Goodspeed has since raised all but 5 percent of the remaining $3 million.
''We were a little bit concerned because this was our first capital campaign,'' he said. ''We've never been in debt and have become very self-sufficient.''
The project incorporates environmentally friendly features. The driveway around the crescent of houses is made of a concrete that allows water to seep through, rather than run off into the brook behind the property. (Think of a consistency like a Rice Krispies Treat, Mr. McMahon said.)
All windows are energy-efficient and oversize to maximize natural light.
Most significant, the houses are heated and cooled by geothermal systems that are expected to keep bills down to $100 per house per year.
The houses have kitchens and shared living and dining areas. The furnishings and paint colors are identical from house to house. ''The point of that is equality -- everyone's getting the same treatment,'' Mr. McMahon said.
A corollary to that: All guests are expected to clean and do their own laundry.
The houses will be occupied 10 months of the year. In addition to putting up people associated with productions, the houses will serve as incubators for new material. Goodspeed plans to start an artists' colony program, in which writers, composers and lyricists apply to spend time living and working on the campus.
In the meantime, as fund-raising winds up, theater patrons are being asked to pay for furnishings, bedding, appliances and cookware for the houses. That way, ''people at all levels of giving can have a part in the project,'' said Elisa Hale, the public relations manager.
A gift of $25 pays for a wall clock, while $450 covers one of the flat-screen televisions that will be in every living room. And for $10,000, a donor can outfit an entire house.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OUR TOWN: Goodspeed Musicals in East Haddam has built villagelike housing for cast members. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW SULLIVAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); DIVESTITURES (75%); RESTAURANTS (74%); CHOREOGRAPHY (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1027 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; YEAR IN PICTURES; Pg. 

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: The World

BYLINE: By COLUM McCANN

 BODY:
THOSE WEREN'T JUST tank lights leaving the desert behind. That was the darkness of a nearly nine-year war made visible. 
The soldiers moved through the sandstorms, and landed back home in the United States to deal with the continuing legacy of American foreign policies. In 2011, Barack Obama's promises were finally beginning to find their way onto the front pages. A spectacular nighttime raid found Osama bin Laden in Abbottabad, Pakistan. The helicopters landed. The weight of the past was kicked up in the dust. Author of a decade of killing, Bin Laden had endpages that were quick and sharp. He was shot dead, buried at sea, and the White House held its breath: it sounded so much like a sigh of joy, exhausted and necessary. The soldiers continued their journeys: it was a big world they were returning to. The seven billionth baby was born, starting global discussions on issues of environment, health and technology. Europe teetered on the edge of ruin, stunned by even more economic philandering. In the fall, lights were lit for Kim Il-sung and a regime that has hidden its face. In Norway the island of Utoya heard gunshots among the trees. Parts of Africa were dealing, yet again, with an almost impossible hunger and thirst. But stories and images are always new, no matter how old the theme. The surprise of the world is that it can still surprise us.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (76%); WRITERS (70%); HELICOPTERS (56%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (70%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORWAY (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1028 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: Duped

BYLINE: By JOHN HORGAN. 
John Horgan directs the Center for Science Writings at Stevens Institute of Technology. His book ''The End of War'' will be published next month.

 BODY:
THE FOLLY OF FOOLS
The Logic of Deceit and Self-Deception in Human Life
By Robert Trivers
397 pp. Basic Books. $28.
In 1995 I traveled to the University of California, Santa Barbara, for the annual meeting of the Human Behavior and Evolution Society, which turned out to be a pep rally for psychologists, anthropologists and others who view humanity through the lens of evolutionary theory. Attendees heard Darwinian takes on lust, love, infidelity, status-seeking, mental illness, violence, patriotism, politics, economics and religion, as well as keynote addresses from such luminaries as Richard Dawkins and Steven Pinker.
The most influential thinker there, arguably, was a scruffily bearded fellow, wearing sunglasses and a knitted cap, who never gave a talk. He lurked around the margins of the conference; at one point I spotted him puffing a joint outside a meeting hall. This, at any rate, is how I remember Robert Trivers, although as he points out in ''The Folly of Fools,'' memory often tricks us. He also confesses to being a pothead, so I'm pretty sure my recollection is accurate. 
As a Harvard graduate student in the 1970s, Trivers wrote a handful of papers showing how our genes' relentless drive to self-replicate underpins even our most apparently magnanimous impulses. According to his theory of reciprocal altruism, we occasionally act kindly toward strangers because our ancestors -- over time and in the aggregate -- received a quid pro quo benefit from acts of generosity. In other papers, Trivers proposed that families roil with conflict because parents share no genes with each other and only half of their genes with children, who unless they are identical twins also have divergent genetic interests.
These concepts were popularized by others, notably Edward O. Wilson in ''Sociobiology,'' Dawkins in ''The Selfish Gene'' and Pinker in ''How the Mind Works.'' All have credited Trivers, whom Pinker has called ''an underappreciated genius, and one of history's greatest thinkers in the analysis of behavior and emotion.'' If Trivers is not better known, that may be because he has struggled with bipolar disorder since his youth. He is also, by his own admission, an irascible anti-authoritarian, whose sharp tongue often gets him into trouble. He left Harvard in the late 1970s, eventually ending up at Rutgers. He also has a home in Jamaica.
No doubt tired of seeing others crank out well-received elaborations of his work, Trivers has finally produced a popularization of his own. His topic is deceit, with which by his own admission he has wrestled -- on a personal as well as professional level -- throughout his adult life. Trivers's scope is vast, ranging from the fibs parents and children tell to manipulate one another to the ''false historical narratives'' political leaders foist on their citizens and the rest of the world.
Trivers calls deceit a ''deep feature'' of life, even a necessity, given genes' brutal struggle to prevail. Anglerfish lure prey by dangling ''bait'' in front of their jaws, edible butterflies deter predators by adopting the coloring of poisonous species. Possums play possum, cowbirds and cuckoos avoid the hassle of raising offspring by laying their eggs in other birds' nests. Even viruses and bacteria employ subterfuge to sneak past a host's immune systems. The complexity of organisms, Trivers suggests, stems at least in part from a primordial arms race between deceit and deceit-detection.
Our big brains and communication skills make us master dissemblers. Even before we can speak, Trivers notes, we learn to cry insincerely to manipulate our caregivers. As adults, we engage in ''confirmation bias,'' which makes us seize on facts that bolster our preconceptions and overlook contradictory data. We wittingly and unwittingly inflate the qualities of ourselves and others in our religious, political or ethnic group. We denigrate those outside our in-group as well as sexual and economic rivals.
Fooling others yields obvious benefits, but why do we so often fool ourselves? Trivers provides a couple of answers. First, believing that we're smarter, sexier and more righteous than we really are -- or than others consider us to be -- can help us seduce and persuade others and even improve our health, via the placebo effect, for example. And the more we believe our own lies, the more sincerely, and hence effectively, we can lie to others. ''We hide reality from our conscious minds the better to hide it from onlookers,'' Trivers explains. But our illusions can have devastating consequences, from the dissolution of a marriage to stock-market collapses and world wars.
One intriguing theme running through ''The Folly of Fools'' is that self-/deception can affect our susceptibility to disease, for ill or good. Trivers speculates that some illusions -- for example, a daughter's insistence that her alcoholic, abusive father is a good man -- require so much effort to maintain that they drain energy away from our immune systems. Conversely, religious fundamentalism, which often restricts mating or even interactions with outsiders, may help protect the faithful from parasites carried by infidels. According to Trivers, religions are more likely to split into rival factions in regions with high rates of infectious disease.
Trivers will no doubt alienate many readers when he turns his attention to politics. Although he indicts many nations for denying their sins, he is especially incensed by Israel's treatment of Palestinians and the United States' treatment of American Indians, blacks, the Vietnamese, Iraqis, Afghans and other groups. I found Trivers too shrill in these sections, even though my political views overlap with his. Also questionable are his put-downs of cultural anthropologists, whom he accuses of denying -- for ideological rather than scientific reasons -- biological research that can deepen our understanding of human behavior. In my experience, evolutionary scholars are at least as driven by ideology as cultural anthropologists are.
But I cut Trivers slack for his denunciations of others because he is so hard on himself. Throughout the book, he recalls instances in which he lied -- to girlfriends (he has apparently had many), wives (two), children (five) and colleagues. In one especially poignant passage, Trivers recalls walking down a city street with an attractive young woman, ''trying to amuse her,'' when he spots ''an old man on the other side of her, white hair, ugly, face falling apart, walking poorly, indeed shambling.'' Trivers abruptly realizes he is seeing his reflection in a store window: ''Real me is seen as ugly me by self-/deceived me.''
Trivers is not an elegant stylist like Dawkins, Wilson or Pinker. His technical explanations can be murky, his political rants cartoonishly crude. But Trivers's blunt, unpolished manner -- which I assume is not feigned -- makes me trust him more than some slicker writers. ''The Folly of Fools'' reminds me of other irreducibly odd classics by scientific iconoclasts like ''The Fractal Geometry of Nature,'' by the mathematician Benoit Mandelbrot, and ''The Society of Mind,'' by the artificial-/intelligence pioneer Marvin Minsky.
Only in one passage does Trivers strike me as insincere, when he notes how prone academics are to self-importance; one survey found that 94 percent considered themselves to be above average in their fields. ''I plead guilty,'' Trivers adds. That, surely, is false modesty. May his new book give him the attention he so richly deserves.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH OF ROBERT TRIVERS BY NICK ROMANENKO, RUTGERS UNIVERSITY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); EVOLUTION THEORY (90%); FAMILY (89%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (87%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (76%); MENTAL ILLNESS (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (71%); HISTORY (71%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (71%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (64%); RELIGION (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: Folly of Fools, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1029 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: The Cratchit Tax Credit

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
AT Christmastime, we like to tell stories about resilient families. The Cratchits of ''A Christmas Carol,'' for instance, who subsist on love, hope and 15 shillings a week. The Baileys of Bedford Falls, who survive wars, bank runs and bankruptcies because they have friends, one another, and a guardian angel watching out for them. The first couple of the New Testament, who manage to cope with a supernatural pregnancy, a murderous king and the necessity of delivering a child in the bleak midwinter, half-out-of-doors and far from home.
These stories resonate in part because of how easily they could turn out differently. Not every Tiny Tim has Bob Cratchit as his father and a reformed Scrooge as his benefactor. Not every George Bailey realizes that he shouldn't jump off the bridge when things look bleakest. And not every unexpectedly expectant mother has a St. Joseph standing by her. 
Millions of Americans know this all too well, because the darker possibilities the Christmas stories hint at -- divorce, abandonment, childhood suffering -- are realities they have to live with every day. But that unhappy knowledge isn't evenly distributed. In 21st-century America, the well-off and well-educated have the best odds of enjoying the domestic stability that the Yuletide stories celebrate, while the very people who most need resilient families -- the Cratchits and Baileys, the working poor and the hard-pressed middle class -- are less and less likely to have them.
This domestic dissolution plays a role in a host of socioeconomic ills: stagnating blue-collar wages, weakening upward mobility, stalling high school graduation rates, even the increase in juvenile obesity and diabetes. But it isn't an issue that politicians of either party are particularly comfortable addressing. Liberals worry about seeming paternalistic and judgmental; conservatives recoil from the idea of increasing the government's role in the most intimate of spheres. Thus America has a crisis of family life, but no family policy to speak of.
To some extent, the nervous politicians are right. There is no government program that can guarantee a happy childhood or a devoted spouse. (If you replaced Clarence from ''It's a Wonderful Life'' or the Angel Gabriel of the Gospels with a Health and Human Services bureaucrat, those stories would probably have a much grimmer ending.)
But public policy can still make a difference in the way we organize our private lives, and public institutions should be designed with existing patterns of social life in mind. Where mating and marrying are concerned, both our policies and our institutions are increasingly out of date: they're built for a world in which two-parent, single-breadwinner families were a near-universal norm, and they don't take enough account of the mass entrance of women into the work force, or the mounting economic pressures on the American family.
These pressures are strongest when children are young -- the time when sustained parental attention can make the biggest difference to health, intelligence and life outcomes, but also the time when the juggling act for a two-earner (to say nothing of a single-parent) household is the most difficult and frenetic.
Not coincidentally, this is the period when many European nations have guaranteed extended parental leave: not the 12 weeks of unpaid time off in the Family and Medical Leave Act that Bill Clinton signed into law in 1993, but a more robust span that often covers the entire first year of a child's life. The attractions of this model inspired the Fox News anchor (and mother of two) Megyn Kelly, not normally a fan of government regulation, to accuse the United States of being ''in the Dark Ages when it comes to maternity leave.''
But there are costs to the European approach. Government-guaranteed leave often gives less financial relief to a mother or father who is already at home full time. And Europe's overall web of regulations and job protections makes the labor market more rigid and less accommodating to part-time work -- which is the kind of work that mothers, especially, tend to want. (A recent survey of American parents found that 58 percent of married women with children preferred part-time to full-time work, compared with 20 percent of husbands.)
A more flexible alternative, championed by the conservative writers Ramesh Ponnuru and Robert Stein, would change the way we tax families, dramatically expanding the child tax credit in order to ease the burden on parents with young children. Their proposal would leave contemporary Baileys and Cratchits with more disposable income and more options without favoring one approach to parenting over another.
Obviously, neither generous parental leave nor an expanded child tax credit is a magic bullet for the problem of family breakdown. But if Democrats were championing the first idea and Republicans were championing the second, we would at least have the beginnings of a healthy conversation about family policy, instead of the conspicuous silence that surrounds the country's biggest social crisis. And it's hard to imagine a policy debate that's better suited to the season.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (91%); FAMILY (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); POOR POPULATION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); RELIGION (71%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); OBESITY (63%); CONSERVATISM (62%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (51%); DIABETES (50%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%); GRADUATION RATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1030 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: In Countryside, Stricken Haiti Seeks Both Food and Rebirth

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
PAPAYE, Haiti -- For months after the earthquake that struck the capital, Manel Laurore pulled shattered bodies from his neighbors' homes, hunkered in fetid refugee camps and scrounged for food and water.
Today, his main worries are when his bean, corn and plantain crops will come in.
''I will never go back to Port-au-Prince,'' said Mr. Laurore, 32, a former shopkeeper who was sifting soil to plant a tomato garden, referring to the capital. ''It left a strong pain inside. Here the work is hard, but you live in total peace.''
His work, on a 15-acre cooperative farm in Papaye, represents a small but promising success for an ambitious program being promoted by aid workers, government officials and international donors: saving the country by developing the countryside.
When the earthquake leveled Port-au-Prince on Jan. 12, 2010, planners and visionaries here and abroad looked past the rubble and saw an opportunity to fix the structural problems that have kept Haiti stuck in poverty and instability. An idea that won early support was to shrink the overcrowded, underemployed, violence-ridden capital and revive the desiccated, disused farmland that had long been unable to feed the country. 
''Decentralization is a critical cornerstone supporting my vision for a new Haiti,'' President Michel Martelly told potential investors last month. ''We want to strengthen and empower our rural communities and create new ones.''
But the vision has run up against Haitian reality: myriad economic and infrastructure deficiencies, the lack of credible opportunity in rural areas and the fading of international interest and funds.
Reviving rural Haiti would wean the country off an overreliance on imported food while creating jobs in the countryside, helping to discourage mass migration to urban sinkholes like Port-au-Prince. Before the quake, nearly a quarter of the population lived in the capital, where two-thirds of the labor force had no formal jobs and overcrowding was considered a major contributor to the quake's estimated death toll of 300,000.
Tens of thousands of people fled Port-au-Prince for rural areas immediately after the quake, but most have since returned, American and Haitian government officials said, finding little opportunity and food to be scarce.
''We need to reverse the trend of people in rural areas moving to the city,'' said Ari Toubo Ibrahim, the Haiti representative for the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization. The organization says it believes that, with enough training and support, about a tenth of the 600,000 people still in earthquake camps could ultimately move to the countryside.
New factories are also part of the plan. A South Korean-run industrial park in the north, partly financed by the United States, is expected to open next year, providing at least 20,000 jobs.
But experts say agriculture is the nation's biggest need.
Farming has declined to 25 percent of the economy today from 40 percent a decade ago, making Haiti more dependent on imported food. Today, the government says, 52 percent of the food Haitians eat comes from abroad, compared with 20 percent a few decades ago.
The decline in farming dates primarily to the mid-1980s, when the government encouraged urbanization, and it worsened under a trade embargo during political turmoil in the 1990s. When trade restrictions loosened, the market was flooded with cheap, foreign staples like American rice, Dominican poultry and milk, in powdered form, from as far away as Europe.
A series of storms in 2008 further wiped out farms, and riots over the soaring cost of food, owing to fluctuations in the world market, led lawmakers to oust the prime minister.
Recently, though, there have been signs of a potential turnaround. This month, the World Bank approved $50 million for agriculture projects. ''When agriculture grows, gross domestic product grows,'' said Diego Arias, an agriculture economist who analyzes Haiti at the World Bank.
Signature Haitian products like mangoes, coffee and cocoa are getting a burst of overseas attention, and BioTek, a Florida company, is awaiting approval from the new government on a long-awaited public-private plan to revive Haiti's last remaining sugar mill, in Leogane, one of the areas hit hardest by the quake.
Haitian specialty coffee is in demand in restaurants in New York, Miami and other American cities, and the Inter-American Development Bank, Nestle and Colombia's National Federation of Coffee Growers have announced a $3 million effort to help 10,000 coffee farmers replant trees on denuded hills and increase production for both home consumption and export.
The American grocery chain Whole Foods has been selling a variety of mango indigenous to Haiti, and Let Agogo, a Haitian organization whose Haitian Creole name means Milk Aplenty, has stepped up a program to give cows and training to farmers and to process the milk into a sweetened drink that Haitian schoolchildren commonly consume.
Taiwanese agronomists have expanded a program to help rice farmers increase their yields, though imported rice, much of it from the United States, is still far cheaper in markets than Haitian-grown rice.
But the challenges are staggering, and most concern money. Irrigation is lacking, and poorly constructed ports and roads disrupt the delivery of produce to domestic and international markets. Government efforts ground to a virtual halt for months last year after a political crisis swirled around a botched election.
Foreign aid has slowed to a trickle. Only 43 percent of the $4.59 billion promised has been received and disbursed, according to the United Nations.
The Interim Haiti Recovery Commission, the body created to coordinate and prioritize aid, closed in October when its mandate expired, with little sign that it will be renewed. The panel, led by former President Bill Clinton, was set up to provide some assurance to international donors, wary of channeling aid to a historically corrupt Haitian government, that their money would be well spent.
Its departure raises questions about whether the remaining pledges will ever be fulfilled.
Haiti's five-year agriculture plan developed after the quake has received only about half of its nearly $800 million budget. Haitian officials say the government actually needs $1 billion to $2 billion to carry out the plan.
The new agriculture minister, Hebert Docteur, said he hoped to carry out the program with whatever resources he had to help struggling farmers. ''Too often they are trying with hand tools to get something from the land, but it is not nearly enough,'' he said.
The United States has opened several training centers that aim to instruct hundreds of farmers in rudimentary practices often taken for granted in other countries.
Wansy Jean Poix, 36, a sorghum and corn farmer in La Tramblay, near Port-au-Prince, said he was accustomed to planting by simply tossing seeds on a large patch of ground. Now he plants in rows, to maximize the use of the land.
''We increased production so there is more for ourselves and to sell on market,'' he said.
The experimental farm in Papaye, three hours from the capital, at once demonstrates the promise and the pitfalls that face the effort to expand farming beyond the hardiest takers.
The village was created last summer by Mouvman Peyizan Papay, one of the country's largest peasant organizations, working with the Presbyterian and Unitarian Universalist Churches in the United States and other organizations. Together, they plan to build four more such farms in the central region.
The 10 families here grow their own food and have begun planting crops like corn and plantains to sell. Though the houses lack electricity, they are roomier than those many of them left in Port-au-Prince.
But the project has relied on substantial help to get off the ground. The total cost for the five villages will be $1.6 million, almost all of it from churches and nongovernmental organizations.
The United Nations is studying the project, but it is unclear how well it could be duplicated. Similar villages have been proposed elsewhere, but beyond the money, city dwellers have to believe that it is worth the effort to move their families to spend hours in the hot sun, hoeing and planting.
''If they have water, technical assistance and credit they can survive,'' said Chavannes Jean-Baptiste, executive director of Mouvman Peyizan Papay.
Emmanuel Jean Pierre, 30, already has found that subsistence farming is not enough for him and has set up a small side business charging cellphones in the village using a solar battery he acquired in Port-au-Prince.
He complains of the back-breaking work and misses the energy of the city, the parties, the friends. But with work scarce there and his small grocery business destroyed in the quake, for now, he said, he will stick it out here.
''If I saw a big change in economic opportunity in Port-au-Prince I would probably go back,'' he said. ''But I would rather stay here all my life.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LOOKING TO FARMS: Lufo Joslyn walked to church in October in rural Haiti. In places like Papaye, efforts are being made to increase farming. (A6)
 A Haitian girl helped cook in a village. Reviving rural Haiti would wean the country off an overreliance on imported food. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDRES MARTINEZ CASARES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); REFUGEES (89%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); LABOR FORCE (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); BANANA & PLANTAIN PRODUCTION (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); TRENDS (71%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); CITY LIFE (62%)

PERSON: MICHEL MARTELLY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1031 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Nonfiction Chronicle

BYLINE: By MEGAN BUSKEY. 
Megan Buskey is on the editorial staff of The Wilson Quarterly.

 BODY:
REIMAGINING EQUALITY Stories of Gender, Race, and Finding Home. By Anita Hill. Beacon, $25.95. At the end of the 19th century, Booker T. Washington condemned the one-room cabins housing a majority of the country's former slaves as ''the greatest embarrassment to the progress of the race.'' In his eyes, African-Americans could do little more to represent their preparedness for full participation in society than to set up house in a ''comfortable, tasty, framed cottage.'' Hill, a professor of social policy, law and women's studies at Brandeis, sees a similar connection between homeownership and full equality for black Americans: she eloquently recounts her family's journey ''from being property'' in antebellum Arkansas ''to owning property'' many years later in rural Oklahoma. But homeownership is just one of many factors that add up to true belonging in American society, she argues. Her book is a complex and at times confounding portrait of the ways in which black men and women have struggled to surmount myriad forms of injustice to own homes, and the social ills like gender discrimination and political exclusion that continue to imperil full equality even when that dream is attained. 
Hill says she began her research after revisiting the letters she had received in the years following her 1991 testimony in the Clarence Thomas confirmation hearings, letters that moved her ''to feel more at home in America.'' While saddled with a dense and sometimes befuddling conception of home, this ambitious book provides just as dignified and well intentioned a performance as the one she gave at those hearings.
ONCE UPON A CAR The Fall and Resurrection of America's Big Three Automakers -- GM, Ford, and Chrysler. By Bill Vlasic. Morrow/HarperCollins, $26.99. Ordinary Americans seeking to understand the country's economic malaise can add to their list this essential account of how the United States' auto industry went from ''the pinnacle of industrial power and prestige'' to ''a penniless burden.'' In 2008, the once mighty General Motors was losing $1 billion a month. Vlasic, the Detroit bureau chief for The New York Times, skillfully reconstructs how an increasingly panicked Detroit applied tourniquet after tourniquet to keep from bleeding out altogether -- axing brands like Pontiac and Saturn, shuttering 22 major factories, laying off thousands of employees, fighting bruising battles with the United Automobile Workers and, in the case of G.M. and Chrysler, finally declaring bankruptcy in 2009. Vlasic clearly describes how each automaker was ill in its own way: G.M. was ''a gigantic company with a king-of-the-hill mentality''; Chrysler was like ''a fine-looking house with a monster mortgage.'' Ford, which avoided Chapter 11, got a crucial influx of credit by putting almost its entire American business up as collateral and hit the jackpot with a new C.E.O. who improved the company's fractious culture. It's hard to sympathize with most of the executives, who didn't anticipate that their gas-guzzling cars and poor management would eventually spell big trouble. Detroit may again be on the rise, but an important lesson from this timely book is that at least one longtime ''ball and chain'' -- escalating health care costs -- seems fated to keep weighing it down.
ZAHRA'S PARADISE By Amir and Khalil. First Second, $19.99. The photographs and video that streamed out of Iran after the disputed 2009 presidential election depicted a long-abused country driven to the edge. As intimate and distressing as these digital images were -- who can forget Neda Agha-Soltan's horrifying death? -- they were just fragments. This graphic work offers a wider and steadier window onto Iran's recent anguish. The authors, Amir (an Iranian exile) and Khalil, who remain anonymous for political reasons, draw on scores of real-life stories to create the composite tale of the Alavi family, whose 19-year-old son, a soccer fanatic named Mehdi, disappears in the thick of the protests. If there's one constant to the anguished search that follows, it is the inhumanity with which people are treated by the regime. A copy-shop owner who prints fliers of Mehdi is brutally beaten; a clerk at the court of revolutionary justice angrily spits out: ''Listen, woman: You're not the only mother in Iran. . . . What makes your son so special?'' And then, of course, there's Meh/di's fate. For all its origins in truth, ''Zahra's Paradise'' -- the title is taken from the name of a cemetery on the outskirts of Tehran -- makes the distinction between good and evil too stark: Meh/di comes off as an angel, not a teenager. But Khalil's brilliant and nuanced illustrations go a long way to correct this heavy-handedness; he manages to convey a range of emotions in a feature as simple as Mrs. Alavi's eyebrows.
THE VOYAGE OF THE ROSE CITY An Adventure at Sea. By John Moynihan. Spiegel & Grau, $22. Who among us did not at some point in our college years feel like shirking the burden of impending adulthood by doing something wild and unexpected? Applaud Moynihan, the self-described ''beer-/drinking ex-hippie'' son of Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, for actually making good on his intrepid fantasy: signing up for a stint with the merchant marine. This memoir, written shortly after he returned from the high seas to Wesleyan University in 1981, was rediscovered among his papers after his death at 44 in 2004 (he had a fatal reaction to acetaminophen); it was privately published by his mother, Elizabeth Moynihan, as a tribute. Now a larger audience will have the chance to enjoy the young writer's impressions of the seas and, in smaller doses, himself. Moynihan scores the gig aboard the S.S. Rose City through his father's connections, and early on makes a boneheaded admission of his parentage, alienating the sea dogs. But the surrounding swells and the novel art of seafaring are good enough companions, and he writes about them with an attention both euphoric and anxious, noting ''the frightening vulnerability that seizes you when you look around and realize that there is nothing for 360 degrees.'' Eventually, the ship -- the ''stinking tub'' -- comes to feel like a straitjacket; when he disembarks in Japan late in the four-month trip, ''the sight of a woman was enough to give one the jitters.'' Moynihan resists making much of what a memoirist today might pitch as his ''inner journey,'' and while the reader is thankful -- the author was a mere 20 at the time of his adventure -- the absence of higher stakes makes the story feel a bit thin. Still, Moynihan was right to confine himself mostly to the subject at which he excels: the strange and often bleak existence man lives at sea.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: Thirty-nine of the graphic designer's paintings and drawings, colorful depictions of continents, regions and cities surrounded and penetrated by words, are collected here. Above, a detail of ''Tokyo,'' 2008. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (86%); WOMEN (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (76%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (68%); AUTOMAKERS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (67%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: CLARENCE THOMAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

TITLE: Voyage of the Rose City, The (Book); Zahra's Paradise (Book); Once Upon a Car (Book); Reimagining Equality (Book)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1032 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: The World

 BODY:
THOSE WEREN'T JUST tank lights leaving the desert behind. That was the darkness of a nearly nine-year war made visible. The soldiers moved through the sandstorms, and landed back home in the United States to deal with the continuing legacy of American foreign policies. In 2011, Barack Obama's promises were finally beginning to find their way onto the front pages. A spectacular nighttime raid found Osama bin Laden in Abbottabad, Pakistan. The helicopters landed. The weight of the past was kicked up in the dust. Author of a decade of killing, Bin Laden had endpages that were quick and sharp. He was shot dead, buried at sea, and the White House held its breath: it sounded so much like a sigh of joy, exhausted and necessary. The soldiers continued their journeys: it was a big world they were returning to. The seven billionth baby was born, starting global discussions on issues of environment, health and technology. Europe teetered on the edge of ruin, stunned by even more economic philandering. In Norway the island of Utoya heard gunshots among the trees. Parts of Africa were dealing, yet again, with an almost impossible hunger and thirst. But stories and images are always new, no matter how old the theme. The surprise of the world is that it can still surprise us. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Leaving Iraq: Left: American forces arriving in Kuwait in one of the final convoys out of Iraq. Below: Iraqi soldiers participated in a training drill on their base in Ramadi, previously used by the United States military. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA BRUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Palestinian Conflict: Pro-Palestinian protesters run from tear gas shot by Israeli troops near the border between Israel and Syria on June 5. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ODED BALILTY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Bin Laden Killed: Below: Members of the national security team as commandos conducted the raid in Pakistan that killed Osama bin Laden on May 2. Bottom: Firefighters of Ladder Company 4 watching the news bulletin in Times Square. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETE SOUZA/THE WHITE HOUSE
MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(SR10)
China: A schoolgirl dressed as a Chinese Red Army soldier for a celebration of the 90th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China in Chongqing on June 30. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON LEE/REUTERS)
Shootings in Norway: Two young women embraced during the funeral for Margrethe Kloven, one of the victims of Anders Behring Breivik's July shooting rampage at a youth camp on the island of Utoya in Norway. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Population Growth: A nurse tended to a newborn at a New Delhi hospital on Oct. 31, when the world's population was expected to reach seven billion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LYNSEY ADDARIO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Hunger: A malnourished child at Banadir Hospital in Mogadishu, Somalia, in August. More than 500,000 Somali children were on the verge of starvation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS / THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 North Korea People visited mourning places throughout the country on Dec. 20 to express their condolences over the death of Kim Jong-il, known as their ''Dear Leader.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY KCNA / EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(SR11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (90%); WRITERS (70%); HELICOPTERS (55%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); KIM JONG IL (59%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHONGQING, CHINA (74%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (59%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (51%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORWAY (93%); SOMALIA (93%); IRAQ (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); CHINA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); KUWAIT (79%); SYRIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDIA (59%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1033 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2394 words

HEADLINE: Bourbon's All-American Roar

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE

 BODY:
LOUISVILLE, Ky.
IT sounds like a taunt here in Bourbon Country: Go ahead, mix my Manhattan.
But as the holiday imbibing season approached, five bartenders entered a ''shake off'' this month at the Kentucky Derby Museum, to see who could work the most magic with bourbon, a singularly American spirit that has turned out to be a singularly American success story. The winner was Karla Ramsey, and here is her Manhattan recipe:
2 ounces Woodford Reserve Bourbon
1 ounce each of apple brandy and sweet vermouth 
2 splashes bitters
1 red apple slice and 1 cinnamon stick, for garnish
Shake the liquid with ice and strain into a chilled martini glass. Garnish with the apple slice and the cinnamon stick. Light the cinnamon on fire!
Sure, the event was as much about marketing as mixology -- but then again, today's bourbon boom represents a triumph of salesmanship. At a time when many American industries are struggling, distillers here are thriving, hiring and expanding. They are cashing in on an American renaissance in whiskey-based cocktails, as well as a growing thirst for bourbon around the world.
Bourbon is one product America still makes better than anyone else -- and, in at least one way, it always will be. That is because Congress decreed in 1964 that ''bourbon whiskey is a distinctive product of the United States.'' Three elements make bourbon unique: American corn, pure limestone water and new, charred oak barrels.
Regardless, people here and abroad are drinking more of it these days. Global supplier sales of bourbon and Tennessee whiskey are expected to reach $3.8 billion this year, versus $3.7 billion in 2010, according to a forecast from Euromonitor International. (Bourbon is a type of whiskey, so researchers group them together.)
Distillers are expanding their market with premium small-batch and single-barrel products, along with flavor infusions like honey, cherry and spice. Among the whiskey brands likely to be sitting under Christmas trees this year are the industry's top five: Jack Daniel's, from Brown-Forman; Jim Beam, from Beam Inc.; Evan Williams, from Heaven Hill Distilleries; Maker's Mark, also from Beam; and Early Times, also from Brown-Forman, according to the 2011 Liquor Handbook.
''Bourbon is growing at a faster rate than the total spirits category and outperforming most of the other spirit segments,'' declared Danny Brager, vice president of the beverage alcohol team for Nielsen. Still, in total dollar sales, bourbon ranks fourth behind vodka, rum and cordials.
Smaller producers must be nimble to stand out in a crowded and well-financed field. Consider Angel's Envy, a new entrant from the Louisville Distilling Company. With only $1 million to spend on marketing this year, the company had to be very selective in showcasing its product.
The big whiskey houses use their marketing might to make sure that their brands are in front of retailers and top of mind among consumers who visit bars and liquor stores.
Which brings us back to that shake-off: Ms. Ramsey, 28, is a bartender at Baxter's 942 Bar and Grill here. She will now compete in a national Manhattan-making competition in New York, sponsored by Esquire magazine and by Woodford Reserve, which is also among the brands owned by Brown-Forman, the hometown liquor giant here. And according to data released in the 2011 Liquor Handbook, its flagship brand, Jack Daniel's, spent nearly $15 million on advertising in 2009-10, double that spent by Jim Beam and Evan Williams.
JACK DANIEL'S, produced in Lynchburg, Tenn., takes pride in calling itself Tennessee whiskey. But, just like bourbon, it is made mostly from corn and aged in new charred-oak barrels. The distinctive flavor comes from the ''charcoal mellow'' process, which involves dropping the whiskey through 10 feet of sugar maple charcoal. ''It imparts a distinctive smoothness,'' Jack Daniel's says. ''Charcoal mellowing makes Jack Daniel's what it is -- a Tennessee whiskey, not a bourbon.''
In a 2002 essay for Food & Wine magazine titled, ''Brown Is Beautiful: Learning to Love Bourbon,'' Benjamin Cheever wrote, ''I assumed that if you wanted fine, regional whiskey, you had to cross the pond to Scotland.'' But then he tried a sample of Maker's Mark. ''And it was good,'' he wrote. ''This whiskey looked like clover honey and it went down without burning. Even the finest single-malt Scotch is harsh.''
Dennis Withey of Louisville used to be a big Scotch drinker, but not any more. On Tuesday night, Mr. Withey and a drinking buddy, Bob Engle, were enjoying a $3 shot of Very Old Barton, chased by beer at the Silver Dollar, a new restaurant and bar in Louisville. By 8 p.m., every seat at the 42-foot bar, in a renovated 1890s firehouse, was taken, and Kentucky-made whiskey was flowing freely.
The Barton ''was nice and smooth,'' said Mr. Withey, whose allegiance has switched to Kentucky straight bourbon whiskey. With over 50 choices at the Silver Dollar, he added, ''I'll be back.''
Interest in American whiskey has pervaded popular culture in books like ''Last Call: The Rise and Fall of Prohibition,'' by Daniel Okrent, as well as in the documentary film ''Prohibition,'' by Ken Burns and Lynn Novick, and the HBO series ''Boardwalk Empire.''
''It is the people's drink,'' said Fred Sarkis, a bartender at the Sable Kitchen and Bar in Chicago. ''It doesn't get more American than whiskey.''
Insiders are excited about the new customers they are attracting beyond older white males. Many consumers are relishing the fruit of industry innovation -- infused flavors like cherry and honey, and new finishes and charring techniques for the new oak barrels.
''Flavored whiskey is a gateway-type product into the category,'' explained Larry Kass, spokesman at Heaven Hill Distilleries, which has honey and cherry flavors of its Evan Williams brand.
According to Nielsen, sales of flavored whiskey have risen 136 percent so far this year over last and now represent 3 percent of the $1.4 billion whiskey category. In April, the industry leader, Jack Daniel's Tennessee Whiskey, rolled out Tennessee Honey, a 70-proof proprietary honey liqueur blended with Old No. 7 Jack Daniel's Whiskey.
Though it was late to the flavored party, Jack Daniel's soon had a hit on its hands. In just a few months, said Vivien N. Azer, an analyst at Citi Investment Research, dollar and volume sales for Tennessee Honey exceeded all of its flavored peers combined: Wild Turkey American Honey, Red Stag and Evan Williams honey and cherry.
Michael J. Keyes, president of the North America region for Brown-Forman, said the company was initially cautious about Tennessee Honey because it didn't want to cannibalize the Jack Daniel's brand. But, he said, he was happy to see that the honey flavor was resonating with African-Americans, Hispanics and women.
''Everybody loves Jack Daniel's brand, but Black Label may not be for them,'' he said. ''This one seems to be accessible to a different demographic.''
Jim Beam has found that to be true with its Red Stag Black Cherry bourbon, introduced in 2009. ''What it has done is what we thought it would do, which is broaden the audience to bourbon to people who were not bourbon drinkers,'' said Bill Newlands, Beam's president for North America.
Whereas sales of traditional bourbon skew 80 percent male to 20 percent female, he said, Red Stag runs 50-50, and a bit younger. In January, he said, Beam will add two flavors to the line: Red Stag Spiced and Red Stag Honey Tea.
Beam has been particularly aggressive with new product lines, including Maker's 46 and Devil's Cut. ''We've been going at it full tilt,'' said Frederick Booker Noe III, the master distiller and a great-grandson of Jim Beam.
(The company, which spun off from Fortune Brands in October, also jumped into the fast-growing Irish whiskey category. This month, Beam agreed to acquire Cooley, an independent Irish whiskey distillery, for $95 million. Last year, the Irish whiskey category grew 11.5 percent, to 4.86 million cases, according to Impact Databank.)
Mr. Noe is a seventh-generation master distiller who, like many in his trade, is part scientist, part historian and part showman. Recently, he answered an unusual call of duty. To celebrate the brand notching its one-millionth fan on Facebook, Mr. Noe, 54, agreed to get a tattoo of the Jim Beam logo. ''I've done crazier stuff than this, I imagine,'' he said.
A day later, at the Knob Creek Guest House on the Jim Beam grounds in Clermont, Ky., Mr. Noe pulled out some Red Stag Spiced and Red Stag Honey Tea, bottled the day before and ready to be shipped in January. He set them down next to Red Stag Black Cherry and Devil's Cut for a tasting.
''Red Stag was a gamble. I'll be honest with you,'' Mr. Noe said as he tasted it. ''I was the biggest naysayer in the company.'' Would black cherry confuse consumers, he wondered? ''I was wrong,'' he said. ''Nonbourbon drinkers try it and say, 'Wow.' ''
Mr. Noe moved on to Spiced and Honey Tea and smacked his lips appreciatively with each sip. He said that the cinnamon flavor in Spiced reminded him of Red Hots candies but that the bourbon took over. ''It's the real deal,'' he said. ''You can taste the bourbon. It's not like we're masking it.''
WHEN it comes to innovation, the whiskey business is like the auto industry: it has long product cycles involving trial and error. At any given time, Harlen Wheatley, master distiller at Buffalo Trace, owned by Sazerac, has more than 1,500 experimental barrels aging in the warehouse. It built a micro-distillery within its main distillery just for experimentation.
At Woodford Reserve, itself an innovative brand introduced in 1996, research and development for its long-awaited line extension took about four years. The premium Woodford Reserve Double Oaked will be available in the spring, said its master distiller, Chris Morris.
At the Brown-Forman headquarters, Mr. Morris laid out wood staves like those used to make barrels by hand a few miles away at the company-owned cooperage, where barrels are assembled, charred and finished. Aging the distilled spirit in a second barrel is the secret to the new bourbon, and working with its own cooperage provided a competitive advantage, he said.
For Woodford Reserve Double Oaked, he said, ''we take a batch of mature Woodford Reserve, reduce the proof to 110 proof and rebarrel in a second brand-new barrel.'' The barrels are stored in the Versailles, Ky., warehouse for a year, batched together and bottled.
He held up a sample and pointed to the rich dark color. ''Now you get honey, butterscotch notes,'' Mr. Morris said, sampling it. ''Woodford has nice citrus notes, the balance of many flavors. This is going to be out of balance on purpose. At 90.4 proof, it will be even smoother, softer than Woodford. Woodford is known for being smooth.''
He adds with a whisper, ''This is even quieter -- even more elegant.''
Heaven Hill Distilleries in Bardstown, Ky., meanwhile, has also been working on its marketing mix. Just in time for the primary season, it will release special Red State and Blue State bottles of 80-proof straight bourbon.
Red State is Republican red, featuring the traditional elephant. Blue State is Democratic blue, with the donkey mascot. Heaven Hill said it would track retail sales by label to try to infer political preferences among its bourbon drinkers. (There will be no difference between the two whiskies.)
But bourbon isn't just for red and blue states. Distillers are increasing production and creating vast supply chains to quench the thirst of whiskey lovers worldwide.
Bourbon and Tennessee whiskey account for about 70 percent of the $1.1 billion of distilled American spirits that are exported, according to Frank Coleman of the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States. Total exports have been on a tear for the last decade and are up 17 percent this year through October, over the year-earlier period. Mr. Coleman estimated retail sales in the United States to be $6 billion.
The council has recently gotten behind new American craft distilleries, Mr. Coleman said, like the Louisville Distillery Company, founded by Lincoln Henderson, the former master distiller at Woodford Reserve, and his son, Wesley. So when the council invited about a dozen small distillers on a trip to Shanghai in November, Wesley Henderson jumped at the chance to promote Angel's Envy.
Introduced in April, Angel's Envy is a Kentucky straight bourbon whiskey aged for at least four years and then transferred into used port barrels for four to six months. The curvaceous bottle with angel's wings describes the end result as Kentucky bourbon with a port barrel finish.
One place the American distillers visited in Shanghai was M1nt, a private club that caters to young, diverse and upscale Chinese customers looking for a premium spirit, Mr. Henderson said. The company's current presence in China is tiny, at only a select few bars in Shanghai, said Samira Seiller executive vice president and managing director.
Back home, meanwhile, most of the attention is on the eight states where Angel's Envy is being sold. Louisville Distilling reached out to bartenders like Mr. Sarkis of Sable to help spread the word to others who were fans of the whiskey and the company's independent vibe, said Ms. Seiller, who is based in Chicago. ''The idea of independence is in everything we do,'' she said.
That makes lining up bartenders, retailers and wholesalers easier, she added. ''In talking to people, you want to make them feel, 'You're in this with us.' ''
To be sure, while the industry is booming now, the economic climate could suddenly deteriorate, or the industry could be hit with unexpected excise taxes, warned Ms. Azer, the Citi analyst, in a recent report.
What's more, many distillers in Kentucky have been expanding. In five to 10 years, will their products be in such high demand? The industry is banking on big growth in India and China, said Charles K. Cowdery, author of ''Bourbon, Straight: The Uncut and Unfiltered Story of American Whiskey.'' ''If those markets develop as has been anticipated, no one will have made enough,'' he said. ''If they don't, everyone will have made too much.''
Consumers' tastes, meanwhile, can shift with the wind. ''Bourbon and rye are now hip among young American trend-setters like we've never seen before,'' Mr. Cowdery said, ''but trends can change on a dime.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: New barrels made from white oak, top, were charred this month at a Brown-Forman facility in Louisville, Ky. Bourbon is aged in such barrels before it is bottled. Karla Ramsey mixed a bourbon Manhattan, at left, during a competition held recently among five bartenders at the Kentucky Derby Museum. Her concoction was declared the winner. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU1)
Assorted brands on the shelves at Sherry-Lehmann Wine and Spirits in Manhattan. Distillers are looking to extend the popularity of bourbon abroad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A barrel of aged Buffalo Trace bourbon, top, travels from a storehouse to be bottled at the Buffalo Trace Distillery in Frankfort, Ky., while, above right, sour mash pours into one of its several 90,000-gallon fermenters. Above left, Karla Ramsey is announced as the winner of the bartenders' contest in Louisville. (BU4)
 Bourbon cocktails line up to be judged at the bartenders' contest at the Kentucky Derby Museum. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (90%); DISTILLERIES (89%); SALES & SELLING (76%); CHRISTMAS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%)

COMPANY: BEAM INC (81%)

TICKER: BEAM (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551114 CORPORATE, SUBSIDIARY & REGIONAL MANAGING OFFICES (81%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS337110 WOOD KITCHEN CABINET & COUNTERTOP MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); FRANKFORT, KY, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1034 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: From the Fed, a Shield Against Europe

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
AS the euro zone mess unfolds, another financial crisis may be coming our way. The conduit could be some spillover effect from across the Atlantic -- whether in derivatives or money markets -- or maybe some under-the-radar surprise.
With such dangers at hand, it's time for a spot-check on whether financial regulation in the United States has left us prepared. So far -- with one notable exception -- it's not looking good. 
A core problem in finance is that banks and other intermediaries can take on too much risk, not caring enough that their potential failures may throw people out of work, burden taxpayers and damage the broader economy. The solution -- if it can be managed -- is to ensure that banks have enough safe, liquid capital so that A) they are betting a lot of their own money, thereby inducing some caution, and that B) they have a large-enough cushion to limit the risk of failure. ''Lots of capital, not too much leverage'' is the basic formula for a safe financial system.
Such a general approach is needed because it's again become clear that regulators can't predict the specifics of the next crisis. Less than two years ago, our government enacted the Dodd-Frank law, the most complex financial regulation bill of all time, based on the work of hundreds of economic and legal experts, all hyper-aware of the issues of risk. Neither this bill nor our government, however, foresaw that we were already living in the onset of the next potential financial crisis, namely the spillover from the euro zone.
Dodd-Frank left questions of capital and leverage largely to the Basel III international banking agreements, the second piece of the new financial regulatory architecture. Basel III, like its predecessors Basel I and Basel II, encourages banks to hold sovereign debt. This has been revealed as a mistake, just as it was wrong for the earlier Basel regulations to encourage banks to hold mortgage securities.
Most fundamentally, Basel III seems obsolete even before it can formally take effect over the next few years. Its standards imply that European banks will have to raise more capital, possibly in the hundreds of billions of dollars. At this point, that's like wishing a poor man were a millionaire. The question will sooner be one of survival. In lieu of raising new capital, many European banks will stretch the capital they already have and meet minimum capital standards by shrinking, thereby cutting back on lending and damaging economic growth.
The standards may eventually be tossed out or revised, even though they looked good on paper not that long ago. If nothing else, after recent downgrades, there are no longer enough triple-A securities to carry out the requirements.
Despite these problems, the United States may oddly enough be facing this new financial turmoil in a relatively safe position, though whether it's safe enough remains to be seen. The Federal Reserve took the lead on future capital requirements just last week, but for the shorter run there is a more important Fed policy move. Starting in late 2008, as a response to our financial crisis, the Fed bought government and mortgage securities from banks on a very large scale.
Bank reserves at the Fed rose from virtually nothing to more than $1.6 trillion. Then the Fed paid interest on those reserves to help keep them on bank balance sheets.
It is estimated by Moody's that America's biggest banks now have liquid assets that are 3 to 11 times their short-term borrowings. In other words, it's the cushion we've been seeking. Furthermore, a lot of those reserves sit in the American subsidiaries of large foreign-owned banks, protecting the European system, too.
This new safety comes not from regulatory micromanagement but rather from the creation of additional safe interest-bearing assets. While European economies have been losing safe assets through debt downgrades, the United States financial system has been gaining them.
THE Fed's stockpiled liquid reserves have met some heavy criticism. Hard-money advocates contend that they are a prelude to hyperinflation -- although market forecasts and bond yields don't bear this out -- while proponents of monetary expansion have wished that banks would more actively lend out those reserves to stimulate the economy. That second view assumes that the financial crisis is essentially over, but maybe it's not. As the euro zone crisis continues, it seems that Ben S. Bernanke has been a smarter central banker than we had realized.
The final lessons are scary, but also powerful.
First, don't assume that the first wave of a financial crisis is the final act. Circa 1931, many people thought that the global economy was recovering, until an additional wave of financial crises caught fire in Europe and later damaged the United States. Mr. Bernanke is a scholar of exactly this period.
Second, no matter what laws are written, good central banking is the most powerful and most influential financial regulator, if only through the broad management of liquidity and safety. The euro zone has put too much responsibility on national governments and too little on its central bank.
Third, good regulation should take account of our rather extreme ignorance. That means emphasizing the more general protections, as embodied in a ready supply of safe liquid assets, rather than obsessing over the regulatory micromanagement of particular bank activities.
On the whole, we still haven't learned that last lesson. Nonetheless, this time around we may just squeak by, largely because of the prudence of our central bank.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIMOTHY COOK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); EXTERNAL DEBT (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (60%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1035 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS NEW JERSEY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Art Institute Moves To the Fast Track

BYLINE: By TAMMY LA GORCE

 BODY:
ASBURY PARK, N.J.
THE seven-year-old Shore Institute of the Contemporary Arts, where past shows have ranged from stuffed objects to works about the repetitive use of light, has never risked being lumped in with galleries that display, say, driftwood sculptures.
But with ''The Sum of Their Parts,'' an exhibition that opened Dec. 3 at the institute's new home here, Douglas Ferrari, the executive director, made what even he considers a bold move. ''I thought this was a good show to start with, because it kind of gives a sampling of what we're going to be bringing to Asbury Park, and that's something different,'' he said. The show takes as its theme hybridized creatures -- think modern sphinxes and Minotaurs. ''Not your usual Jersey Shore art offerings,'' he added. 
By Mr. Ferrari's estimation, the nonprofit SICA is now perfectly situated to fulfill its ambitions. Long Branch, where the center had its home until this month, ''is a slower environment,'' he said. (He has moved his home to Asbury Park from Long Branch as well.)
In Asbury Park, ''even in the economic downturn, interesting places keep going in one after the other,'' he said, ''and there's a thriving arts community here.''
There is synergy with the business community, too. ''Businesses really appreciate the arts, I think, and realize that the arts can be used as an economic stimulant,'' Mr. Ferrari said. ''So many cities and towns don't seem to get that.'' During the new exhibition's opening reception, Mr. Ferrari, 58, said on a recent tour, ''people were coming and going almost like a continuous thing, whereas in our other location people would come and stay because there was no place else for them to go.''
''Here there's so much to do -- so many openings, so many restaurants,'' he said. ''People would stop in and look around for half an hour and say, 'O.K., we can't stay; we've got to go eat.' '' The active arts and entertainment scene, he said, is likely to lead to an increase in visitors.
SICA's 3,200-square-foot space in Asbury Park, for which the nonprofit center signed an eight-year lease, is located on Cookman Avenue, blocks from several galleries and the Showroom, an art-house movie theater. All together, the move to the former office of a graphic arts business cost SICA $25,000, raised through donations, grants and fund-raisers.
Adjusting to the space -- the second of two properties the eight-member SICA board considered during its yearlong search -- has meant minor aesthetic challenges for Mr. Ferrari, who said that at first he ''wasn't really sure about the layout.''
SICA's former gallery in Long Branch, in a 20,000-square-foot building that it owns and is trying to sell, was a 3,500-square-foot square, ''all concrete and very industrial,'' he said. The new center is a deep railroad-style rectangle with wood floors. It consists of three galleries, a railed-in upstairs catwalk space Mr. Ferrari plans to use as a separate gallery, and a seven-table cafe at the entrance that in January or February will begin serving coffee and desserts supplied by a local business.
When the cafe is up and running, it will be home to a series of monthly showcases carried over from Long Branch, among them an open mike; a contemporary dance showcase called ''Sudden Movements''; ''High Mike,'' an open microphone for teenage talent; and ''Let It Out!'' an evening of spoken word.
But SICA is better known for its exhibitions, which Mr. Ferrari organizes and curates, than its social gatherings, he said.
There are 5 to 10 each year, including an annual show of recent Master of Fine Arts graduates from New Jersey; an annual juried show open to all artists; and ''High Relief,'' an annual New Jersey high school sculpture competition. All are free and open to the public.
The boldness of the current show, ''The Sum of Their Parts'' -- the most striking element of which may be Kate Clark's ''Lit From Within,'' a sculpture of three life-size gazelles with human faces -- demonstrates Mr. Ferrari's confidence in what he calls Asbury Park's ''educated consumers.''
''I think there's a desire for contemporary art here, people who aren't frightened of it,'' he said.
The pieces in the exhibition were made by seven artists of various backgrounds who have depicted oddities ranging from an alligator's head attached to a woman's body to a man with butterfly wings; art forms include painting, sculpture, engraving and drawing. (All the art is for sale; the trio of gazelles is priced at $35,000.)
Two of the artists represented in ''The Sum of Their Parts,'' which can be seen through Feb. 24, are from New Jersey, and both have shown at SICA before. The move, they said, is encouraging.
''To me, the big difference is that SICA is so centrally located now -- before it was a little isolated,'' said Angie Mason, 38, of Garfield, whose vivid paintings of moody female creatures gaze at viewers from the gallery walls.
Kelly Vetter, 45, of Neshanic, whose works on display include a framed mermaid skeleton made from a Happy Meal toy, is more attuned to the symbiosis that attracted Mr. Ferrari. ''I am so happy for them, but I'm also happy for Asbury,'' she said. ''Asbury is an artists' town, and they needed SICA. Something like this validates the whole town.''
''The Sum of Their Parts,'' through Feb. 24, the Shore Institute of the Contemporary Arts, 610 Cookman Avenue, Asbury Park; (732) 483-4641 or sica.org; open Wednesday, Thursday and Friday 1 p.m. to 5 p.m., Friday and Saturday 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WILD THINGS: Douglas Ferrari, executive director of the Shore Institute for the Contemporary Arts, above, and at right with Kate Clark's ''Lit From Within.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MONSTER MASH: The introductory exhibition includes, clockwise from left, Angie Mason's ''Always the Fool (Jerk in the Box)''
Jean Pierre Arboleda's ''Hombre Rana''
and Katie Hoffman's ''Step Into My Parlor.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGIE MASON
JEAN PIERRE ARBOLEDA
 KATIE HOFFMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); FILM (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); RESTAURANTS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1036 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; EXPLORER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1618 words

HEADLINE: Rye Is Back, With Flavors of Americana

BYLINE: By BONNIE TSUI

 BODY:
IN gold-rush-era San Francisco, bars lined every block of the Barbary Coast, the area where pioneer mixologists -- back when they were called bartenders -- honed their craft. Rye whiskey was their staple. A hundred years later, a visitor would have been lucky to find one or two rye labels on the shelves of bars in major American cities; bourbon had taken over as the American whiskey.
Over the last few years, though, that has changed, as rye has emerged as a go-to craft spirit of the moment. Interest in its production has also come back, as small artisanal distillers, like Templeton and Delaware Phoenix, have popped up across the country, referencing old recipes and archaeological records to create new spirits strongly rooted in tradition. And big whiskey companies that mostly make bourbon -- Buffalo Trace, Heaven Hill -- are not only bottling small batches of specialty rye but offering tours to spirit enthusiasts.
This past spring, I went in search of these distillers, from San Francisco to Mount Vernon, George Washington's Virginia estate, and found not just a rye revival, but also pieces of American history that for the most part had been lost: Americana through the golden prism of rye whiskey. 
Anchor Distilling
In one case, it turns out, history tastes like ''wet forest with a turpentine finish.'' That's according to my tasting notes, after sampling a rare stash of pre-Prohibition rye under the tutelage of Bruce Joseph, the master distiller at Anchor Distilling in San Francisco.
Eighteen years ago, Anchor was the first to dust off historic recipes and make rye in the style of George Washington more than 200 years ago: with small copper pot stills (the stills boil the alcohol off the fermented grain and purify it) and little aging, which is generally what mellows the spirit. At the time of his death, in 1799, Washington's estate was the largest producer of whiskey in the country, turning out 11,000 gallons a year.
So: why rye? Rye whiskey is made from fermented mashed grain that is at least 51 percent rye (a legal requirement), and has a peppery, complex flavor imparted from the grain; bourbon is at least 51 percent corn, and has a corresponding caramel sweetness.
''Rye is such a flavorful thing to make whiskey out of -- it just bursts with fruit and spice,'' Mr. Joseph said, adding that it is characteristically drier and livelier than bourbon. Three of the classic whiskey cocktails -- the old-fashioned, the manhattan and the Sazerac -- originally called for rye.
Despite the revival, rye still sits in the towering shadow of its more popular cousins; bourbon and Tennessee whiskey account for three-quarters of American whiskey production. Rye doesn't even register as a category measured by the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States.
Yet tucked away in the warehouse of Anchor Brewing Company's Potrero Hill brewery, Anchor Distilling makes three whiskeys under the Old Potrero brand in beautiful custom-made copper pot stills. The stills are straight out of Jules Verne, all shiny metal coils and portholes. Pot stills are very traditional and have a limited capacity; it's a point of pride for a small-batch craft distiller to avoid using a large column still, which is more economical and allows for continuous, big-volume distilling.
''When we started, this was the only pot-distilled whiskey in the U.S.,'' Mr. Joseph said. ''We wanted to go back before bourbon, to colonial times, and we had to do a lot of digging in really old books to teach ourselves about it.''
Anchor's whiskeys are made entirely from rye. Mr. Joseph invited me to swipe my finger through the colorless, unaged spirit running out of the still (barrel-aging is what gives whiskey its distinctive color). The distilled liquid, often called ''white dog,'' had a sharp, subtly sweet and herbal flavor.
Buffalo Trace
Buffalo Trace, in Frankfort, Ky., is the oldest continuously operating distillery in the country. A series of beautiful historical brick buildings situated along the banks of the Kentucky River, it was one of four distilleries allowed to operate during Prohibition, making whiskey ''for medicinal purposes only'' (more than 6 million prescriptions were written for whiskey during that era).
Most of what Buffalo Trace makes is bourbon, but in the mid-1800s, the distillery supplied the rye whiskey for Sazerac, the New Orleans bar that invented its namesake cocktail: rye, absinthe, sugar, plus a dash of bitters and a twist of lemon peel. Buffalo Trace is a big operation with two imposing column stills, but it also has a dedicated micro-still reserved for experimental, limited-release batches that play with unique grain combinations, as well as the types of barrels for aging.
The drive to Buffalo Trace is a tour through corn country, dazzling fields of it dotted with red barns. On the company's entertaining ''hard-hat'' distillery tour, I was quickly reminded of the corn. The guide invited us to dip a finger in the fermenting vat of sweetly fragrant, bubbling mash; it tasted like sour corn porridge, the yeast enriched by nutrients in Kentucky limestone water.
The tasting room is licensed to offer bourbon only, but among the bottles is a white dog named, unsurprisingly, White Dog, a nod to the growing fashion among distilleries of offering unaged spirits in the historical style. It had a grassy heat to it and a barbed edge, especially when sampled alongside an elegant, toasty bourbon called Eagle Rare. My friend and I got our rye fix at Serafini, a nearby bar, where we asked for old-fashioneds made with the distillery's Sazerac straight rye and Buffalo Trace bourbon, for comparison. The rye cocktail was subtler, less sweet. It felt, to me, like a more grown-up version.
George Washington's Distillery and Gristmill
Last year, Mount Vernon released the first batch of rye made in stills reconstructed by its team of archaeologists, historians and historic trade interpreters, all under the direction of a master distiller. I arrived there on a lovely spring day in the height of cherry blossom season. Bypassing the tour buses parked at the mansion, I drove three miles west on winding, tree-lined roads to the distillery and gristmill, situated creek-side on seven verdant acres.
The archaeological excavation, restoration and reconstruction of the plantation's distillery took about a decade; the building opened in 2007 with five working copper pot stills on their original footprints.
''We had amazing documentation: we knew who the stonemason was, who was working here, how much they were being paid,'' said Dennis Pogue, a director of preservation who oversaw the reconstruction. All that knowledge means a richer experience for visitors; you can even page through a replica of a ledger in the distillery storage room.
Washington sold mostly to neighbors within a five-mile radius, Mr. Pogue told me. But there was plenty more to be gleaned from the ledger. Trading was common -- oysters, shoe leather, ducks, turkeys. In 1799, apparently, a Sarah Chichester who lived down the road paid in corn and wheat for 32 gallons of Washington's whiskey, fine flour and 7,000 herring.
All well and good, but what about the whiskey? ''People kept saying, 'You're teasing us here -- what does it taste like?' '' Mr. Pogue said. ''So we decided to make enough to offer for sale and see how it went.'' With help from Dave Pickerell, the former master distiller at Maker's Mark, Mr. Pogue and his team used Washington's recipe and methods to make a twice-distilled unaged rye whiskey, using a mash of rye, corn and malted barley that was the standard of the time. When the whiskey was released last year, it sold out in a few hours. Since then, the distillery has released two other batches; the first aged reserve was released in late October.
In the meantime, visitors can tour the distillery and watch demonstrations of 18th-century whiskey-making, complete with costumed distillers who stoke the fire and stir the mash. If you happen to be around when the team is making real rye, ask for a taste of white dog the Washington way -- straight from a wooden bucket.
IF YOU GO
Anchor Distilling, 1705 Mariposa Street, San Francisco; (415) 863-8350; anchordistilling.com. A new series of distillery tours is available once a week (by appointment only; admission is free).
Buffalo Trace Distillery, 113 Great Buffalo Trace, Frankfort, Ky.; (502) 696-5926 or (800) 654-8471; www.buffalotrace.com. Tours and tastings available Monday to Saturday; opt for the ''hard hat'' tour, which takes visitors behind the scenes (by reservation only; admission is free).
Heaven Hill Distilleries, 1311 Gilkey Run Road, Bardstown, Ky.; (502) 337-1000; bourbonheritagecenter.com. Tours and tastings offered Tuesday to Saturday (free). This distillery recently released Trybox, a series of unaged whiskeys, or white dog, including the Rye New Make (when aged, it becomes the distillery's Rittenhouse Straight Rye).
George Washington's Distillery and Gristmill, Route 235 (three miles south of Mount Vernon), Alexandria, Va.; (703) 780-2000; mountvernon.org. Tours of the distillery run from April 1 to Oct. 31 (admission is $4). The estate has been releasing limited-edition unaged rye whiskey every few months.
Templeton Rye, 209 East Third Street, Templeton, Iowa; (712) 669-8793; templetonrye.com. Tours and tastings are held every month by reservation ($5 per booking); see Web site for dates or to book a personal tour. First manufactured during Prohibition in the small town of Templeton, this was Al Capone's whiskey of choice. In 2006, drawn to their families' bootlegging history with the storied beverage, Scott Bush and Keith Kerkhoff built a distillery and revived the small-batch rye.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left Rye, at left, and corn at George Washington's distillery
white oak barrels at Buffalo Trace
old advertisements for whiskey at Washington's distillery. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (CENTER))
FROM TOP: Bruce Joseph, master distiller at Anchor Distilling in San Francisco
touring a warehouse where bourbon is aged at Buffalo Trace in Frankfort, Ky.
in the tasting room at Buffalo Trace, where tours end. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
LIANNE MILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (TOP))
At George Washington's Distillery and Gristmill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIANNE MILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISTILLED LIQUORS (92%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); DISTILLERIES (90%); HISTORY (73%); ARCHAEOLOGY (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFORT, KY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1037 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: At Detroit Food Bank, Founders Are Gone, but a Mission Endures

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

 BODY:
DETROIT
Trucks sighing under the weight of their cargo pull up, one after another, to the dock of an old manufacturing plant on the west side of ever-challenged Detroit. For all the convoluted coding contained in their bills of lading, these trucks carry freight as basic to life as air.
Food. Thousands of cases of cheap, nutritious food.
And yards away, people bearing the weight of need choose items from some of these cases that are spilling now with America's bounty. Blue Diamond enriched rice from Texas. Mission Pride fruit mix, in extra light syrup, from California. Land O' Lakes cheese blocks from Minnesota, in plain white boxes stamped ''Not for Retail.'' 
An artificial Christmas tree unearthed from storage eases the starkness of the scene, but this is a year-round affair: tens of thousands of seniors, mothers and children receive a free monthly parcel of food that would cost $50 at a brand-name supermarket. That is, if you can still find one in the city.
Providing food to the poor is so routine that we rarely pause to consider its sad necessity, or even how these harbors of grace come to be. This workhorse operation in Detroit, for example, traces its roots back many years, to a charismatic priest, a suburban housewife and the nonprofit organization that survives them, Focus: HOPE.
The two founders, though dead, still linger. Here is the Rev. William Cunningham, watching from his Mass card as the food program's director works the telephone. Here, too, is Eleanor Josaitis, observing from a photograph as the warehouse manager prepares another inventory.
The manager, Glenn Stevenson, 65, looks up from his clipboard in a way that signals he has too much counting to do, and not enough time. A churchgoing man whose work attire includes a Detroit Tigers cap, he has been with Focus: HOPE for 21 years. He knew both the priest, who died in 1997 at the age of 67, and the housewife, who died at 79 in August. And, yes, he confirms, they're here.
''Their spirit will always be with us,'' Mr. Stevenson says, before turning back to his tallying with the purpose of someone who feels he's being watched.
The story of Focus: HOPE is part of Detroit lore, beginning with how Father Cunningham, an English teacher, and Ms. Josaitis, a mother of five, united after the devastating race riots of 1967 to fight poverty and champion racial harmony. He gave up teaching to run a poor parish, she and her husband, Don, moved their family into the city -- at a time when other white people were moving out in haste -- and the two of them started to shake things up.
They published a study revealing how inner-city food and drug stores charged more for goods of poorer quality. They lobbied the Department of Agriculture to share the country's stockpiled food with the country's very poorest. They broadened their vision to include job-training programs and contract work that filled up old manufacturing plants along Oakman Boulevard.
Over the years, they became known as the saints of Detroit, which irritated them and sold them short. They were compassionate, relentless and wonderfully flawed. In other words, human.
Father Cunningham once rejected a well-intentioned businessman's offer to donate secondhand computers because, he said caustically, the people of Focus: HOPE were not second-class citizens. And Ms. Josaitis could be so hard on employees -- ''I know I'm riding my broom, but,'' she'd say -- that some of them gave her a broom equipped with a seat and a horn.
The two co-founders could have booming quarrels, then abruptly switch to a pleasant discussion about where to stop for lunch. They loved each other, friends say, and knew instinctively that with his never-say-never vision and her never-say-never managerial skills, anything was possible, including the almost magical appearance of much-needed food.
Focus: HOPE was in on the ground floor 40 years ago when the federal government began the Commodity Supplemental Food Program, devised to provide poor women and children with basic, nutritious food. Before long, the Detroit operation was the largest of its kind, and leading the fight to include poor people over 60, which is now this obscure federal program's central purpose.
These days, the federal program putters along, costing $177 million a year to serve parts of 39 states, two Indian tribal organizations and the District of Columbia. Focus: HOPE, meanwhile, is struggling, like the city it serves. The distressed economy has forced recalibrations and cutbacks. A few weeks ago the organization laid off dozens of employees and suspended several job-training classes.
But the supplemental food program grinds on. It is the Focus: HOPE original, the constant, overseen for the last 20 years by a 57-year-old man who will lunch on McRib sandwiches five days in a row, no matter that part of his job is to promote a balanced diet. His name is Frank Kubik, and he is all Detroit.
Mr. Kubik got laid off from Chrysler in 1979, then struggled for more than two years to find a job. One miserable moment sticks most in his mind: standing in a line of job seekers outside a building, being covered in snow, and seeing people inside laughing at him and his fellow unemployed.
He finally took a low-paying job unloading the train cars of food for Focus: HOPE, figuring he'd stay for six months. It's been 30 years. Thirty years of knowing that seniors prefer orange juice to tomato juice for washing down their pills; that canned tomatoes are less popular than canned beans; that a two-pound block of cheese can go a long way. Thirty years, all because of the examples set by a priest and a housewife.
''They blew me away,'' Mr. Kubik says, as rainwater drips from his office's leaky ceiling and Father Cunningham watches from a Mass card taped to a bookshelf.
It is a familiar refrain here, echoed by Mr. Stevenson in the warehouse, who remembers how Ms. Josaitis often teased him about his messy desk (she was teasing, wasn't she?). By Jonetta Johnson, 50, the floor manager, who has been here ever since Father Cunningham told her, more than 30 years ago, ''You need something to do.'' By others. It's Father William this and Eleanor that, still.
On another biting December day, people arrive by car, bus and foot for food. They enter a storelike setting that carries an air of common dignity once insisted upon by a priest and a housewife -- and, now, by a successor who has not forgotten the humiliation of standing in line for a job, covered in snow.
Guiding their carts past the glittering Christmas tree, the customers make their selections down an aisle of opened boxes that overflow like cardboard cornucopias. Tomato juice. Grape juice. Canned beef chunks. Canned apricots. Spinach. Pasta. Corn. Rice. Cheese. The things that sustain us.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At Focus: HOPE, crated food shipments are in constant motion through the warehouse, above. The organization continues to fill a vital need in Detroit, parts of which are nearly abandoned. (A18)
 Focus: HOPE's food pantry resembles a grocery store. People check in, get a list of available items, fill their carts and check out. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A27) MAP (A27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); CHEESE (77%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (74%); CITY LIFE (72%); NUTRITION (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); BASEBALL (64%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (60%); RIOTS (60%); CHRISTMAS (54%); RACE & RACISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1038 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: The Haves' Children Are Healthier Than the Have-Nots'

BYLINE: By KATHARINE MIESZKOWSKI; Sydney Lupkin contributed reporting.. 
kmieszkowski@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Every Monday, Sycamore Valley Elementary in Danville challenges its students to run a ''Smile Mile'' together after school. Some parents even run with their children. Photos of the student joggers' grinning faces are posted in the cafeteria. On a recent Monday afternoon, there were 41 smiling faces on the wall.
Students at Sycamore Valley have a lot to be happy about when it comes to their physical fitness. Fifth graders there got the best scores among all of their Bay Area peers on the 2011 statewide Physical Fitness Test.
Eighty-three percent of the fifth graders tested at Sycamore Valley acedthe test by receiving healthy scores on all six different measurements -- of aerobic capacity, abdominal strength, upper body strength, trunk strength, body composition and flexibility, most of them gauged through physical activity. One part of the Physical Fitness Test measures a child's body composition, usually through body mass index, which is calculated using weight and height and is used to determine who is overweight. 
Statewide, only 31 percent of public school students performed as well, according to the California Department of Education.
An analysis of state data by The Bay Citizen revealed a large variation in how fifth graders in Bay Area elementary schools perform on the test. The schools that performed the best have few students from low-income families, for reasons that experts say are not surprising. At Sycamore Valley Elementary, in an affluent suburban community, not a single student was eligible to receive a free or reduced-price lunch because of low family income last year, according to the state's data.
Across the Bay, in San Francisco's Mission district, none of the fifth graders at Cesar Chavez Elementary School received six healthy scores on the test. More than a quarter of them were found to ''need improvement'' on every measure of fitness.
At Cesar Chavez, where Spanish is the first language for many, more than 85 percent of the students are eligible to receive free or reduced-price school lunches. In the school district that includes Cesar Chavez, Hispanic and black students are less likely to receive healthy scores than their Asian and white peers, the state data show.
Students at Sycamore Elementary have a dedicated ''physical education specialist'' on campus to help them train for the test. Those at Cesar Chavez do not.
''There is an inequity problem with the availability of quality physical education between schools of varying socioeconomic status,'' said Drisha Leggitt, executive director of the California Association for Health, Physical Education, Recreation and Dance, a nonprofit organization.
Robert O'Brien, Sycamore Valley's physical education specialist, who favors shorts even when the temperature dips into the 40s, is fond of slogans like ''exercise, not extra fries.'' He leads students as young as 6 in sit-ups, jumping jacks, push-ups and running, striving to get all of them moving, while giving their classroom teachers time to prepare other lessons.
All 21 of the elementary schools in the San Ramon Valley Unified School District, in which Sycamore Valley is located, have a physical education specialist like Mr. O'Brien.
''Having dedicated physical education teachers can make a big difference in students' performance on the test,'' said Linda Hooper, an education, research and evaluation consultant for the California Department of Education.
The San Francisco Unified School District has just 15 physical education specialists for all 76 of its elementary schools. Spread thin, they work with about half the schools at any time. According to Michelle Zapata, the physical education program administrator for the district, Cesar Chavez was among the 38 schools that had no physical education specialist on campus.
Advocates for child health warn that failing to teach children how to be active and healthy will have long-term consequences.
''It comes as no surprise whatsoever that such enormous inequities would be present,'' said Dr. Harold Goldstein, executive director of the California Center for Public Health Advocacy, a nonprofit organization. ''It is grossly unjust and will have health and economic impacts on the state of California for generations to come.''
Sycamore Valley Elementary maintains a focus on health outside of physical education class time. Parents are not allowed to bring in cupcakes or other potentially fattening treats to celebrate birthdays. Instead, gifts of pencils or erasers to classmates are substituted.
Parents also contribute financially. Fund-raising pays for a twice-a-week movement class for kindergarteners that is not required by the state. In the fall, the school's Parent Teacher Association gave Mr. O'Brien a $375 grant to buy new basketball hoops, and he also leads an after-school sports camp that helps raise money to buy sports equipment.
Each fall, the PTA holds a ''fun run'' fund-raiser, in which students are sponsored to run laps during school. It raised nearly $10,000 this year.
Even the school's location supports fitness. It is next to a park, near a sweeping open space of rolling hills dotted with oaks. The park features a play structure, a basketball court, a bocce court and athletic fields, where Mr. O'Brien sometimes holds physical education lessons.
Many elementary school students in the suburbs also play sports outside school, including basketball and lacrosse.
Rebecca Adams, president of the Sycamore Valley Elementary PTA, said her children, who are in the first and third grades, participate in indoor soccer, swimming, gymnastics, baseball and softball, depending on the season.
Not all their activities are organized by adults. ''A lot of kids play outside in their front yard,'' said Ms. Adams, who lives less than a mile from the school. In-line skating, biking and tag are popular.
''My kids play outside all the time,'' she said.
At Cesar Chavez Elementary School, physical education lessons, taught by classroom teachers, are held on a fenced-in blacktop lot below a huge, colorful mural of the school's namesake. In the mural, Mr. Chavez, the late civil rights leader, is surrounded by a crowd of children as he carries a banner that reads ''Help me take responsibility for my own life so I can be free at last.''
On the urban school's blacktop, the basketball rims have no nets. ''We don't have a field or a park next door,'' said Catalina Rico, the school's principal.
Most of the students' parents, many of whom are immigrants, cannot give extra money to help beef up its programs. Some families are homeless, and many others are struggling financially.
''A lot of our kids have been traumatized by poverty, violence, their parents being deported,'' Ms. Rico said.
For those families, regular exercise in a safe place after school may be out of reach.
If parents are working two jobs, Ms. Rico said, ''who is going to take them to the park?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fifth graders in an outdoor physical education class at Sycamore Valley Elementary School in Danville, Calif. Students there did better on a statewide physical fitness test. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAMIN RAHIMIAN/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); FAMILY (89%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1039 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: At 55 Tons, With 22 Wheels, It's Tricky on the Turns

BYLINE: By RONALD AHRENS

 BODY:
PASADENA, Calif.
HOW hard can it be to travel five and half miles at 2.5 m.p.h.?
Difficult enough: if you're the pilot of a 22-wheel, 120-foot-long vehicle that weighs 110,000 pounds, even a simple right turn can have profound consequences.
Yet a small cadre of drivers finds the experience of blind-driving a balky Rose Parade float so satisfying that they come back new year after new year.
Wes Hupp, for example, has driven (or served as an observer, acting as the eyes for the driver tucked under the platform) in 34 Rose Parades. A resident of Weston, Vt., he is paying his own airfare to take part in the 123rd annual parade on Jan. 2 -- to be held on Monday in keeping with the Pasadena Tournament of Roses' never-on-Sunday rule. 
This time, Mr. Hupp, a 51-year-old pharmaceutical chemicals buyer, will serve as observer for Greg Hill, a 46-year-old health care technology project manager from Huntington Beach, Calif., who will be at the wheel. It will be their 17th consecutive year as teammates, and their assignment is literally the biggest challenge yet for Rose Parade drivers: they will maneuver the longest and heaviest single float ever to follow the parade's 5.5-mile route.
The float, called Surf's Up, was conceived by Dick Van Patten's Natural Balance Pet Foods to fit the 2012 parade theme of ''Just Imagine.'' What the float imagines is a canine surfing paradise: an onboard wave machine will send seven actual dogs, riding eight-foot surfboards, down a 66-foot-long pool filled with 6,600 gallons of heated water.
Powering the massive Surf's Up float is a gasoline-burning Ford V-10 truck engine mated to a 6-speed automatic transmission. A transfer case further increases the gear ratio for continuous low-speed travel in first gear.
The first significant landmark on the parade route is the Tournament House on Orange Grove Boulevard, and just beyond that is the first big challenge, a 107-degree right-hand turn onto Colorado Boulevard that makes drivers sweat. Known as ''camera corner,'' this is the prime viewing spot for broadcast crews and thousands of grandstand spectators. To Mr. Hupp, who grew up in nearby Monrovia, the turn is ''wicked.''
In his observer role, Mr. Hupp will sit in the lifeguard tower on the float's nose. He will relay instructions by intercom to Mr. Hill in the driver's compartment, nestled beside the engine bay underneath the front end of the pool.
''Greg doesn't have a clue what he's doing unless I tell him,'' Mr. Hupp said recently by telephone from Vermont. ''A wrong decision can get you some real excitement.'' The two men endure this pressure and discomfort neither for glory nor a fat paycheck. Each receives $250 from Fiesta Parade Floats, the company that Natural Balance hired to build and operate Surf's Up. Construction began in October.
The depressed economy has forced some longtime participants like the City of Long Beach and the Budweiser Clydesdales out of the 2012 parade; one float-building operation has shut down. But the president of Natural Balance, Joey Herrick, says his company will have around $300,000 ''at least'' wrapped up in its record-breaking effort.
Since first entering a float in 2009, the company has made its Rose Parade participation a centerpiece of its marketing and promotion efforts. ''We work it like nobody's ever worked it,'' Mr. Herrick said.
While Mr. Herrick's eyes are on the company's target of six billion media impressions, Mr. Hupp could be said to see things through the other end of the telescope. Part of his motivation to return each year, he says, is the camaraderie of the crews on the nights before the parades, when drivers stay with their floats, tell tales and get little sleep.
''There's only a hundred and some-odd people that do this every year,'' he said. ''Out of the billions of people that are alive and walking this earth, only a small handful can say they've driven in the Rose Parade.''
The appeal certainly doesn't lie in plush accommodations within the driver's compartment. Despite the advanced design and engineering of the elaborate, moving displays, the floats are in some respects nearly as primitive as their very earliest predecessors.
For example, on Jan. 2, 1905, The Pasadena Daily News reported: ''Harry Zier's automobile was a dream of beauty. The scheme was a barge and the striking effect was made by covering the big touring car entirely with a frame, boat-shaped, so that not a bit of running gear was visible.''
Three years later, the Redondo Beach Chamber of Commerce entered a 41-foot automotive whale that wagged its tail and flapped its flippers.
If anyone could be called the Harley Earl of parade floats, it would be Isabella Coleman, a local woman who, over six decades, made the motorized displays not only lower, longer and sleeker, but also more ornate, with well-integrated floral designs.
While the aesthetics improved markedly throughout the 20th century, the mechanical underpinnings evolved relatively little. The chassis of today's float typically has no suspension whatsoever. In the austere driver's compartment, there is a single seat of bare plywood.
''We usually bring a stadium seat cushion, or we bring hemorrhoid donuts,'' Mr. Hupp said. ''The problem with those is, they always end up getting punctured or ripped. It's like going to San Francisco, blindfolded, on a piece of wood.''
In close proximity to the big engine, the driver can also expect temperatures of up to 120 degrees. A small electric fan is provided, but it does not offer much relief.
Decorating the floats with flowers, seeds and other natural elements leaves debris in odd places. ''Every time you turn the fan on, you get a face full of seeds,'' Mr. Hupp said. ''I don't care if you've been driving an hour. You turn on the fan again, you're always going to get something in the face.''
It was ever thus. In the official 1949 parade program, an essay addressed the plight of ''the forgotten man'' who drives the float:
''He breathes in dust and fumes which are impossible for him to avoid. On a hot day he is drenched with perspiration. On un-California-like days he enjoys his own series of chills. Doing a fine job, lacking any applause, appreciated by but a few, he works for varying amounts and a ticket to the Rose Bowl game. The line for those who want to drive floats next year forms to the right, and please don't crowd.''
But Mr. Hupp may not line up for 2013. Last week, he phoned the president of Fiesta Parade Floats and announced his intention to retire. ''The stress is almost too much,'' he said, referring to the challenge of negotiating the course in ever-larger floats. ''They're pushing the limits, and this is as far as I really want to go with it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PARADE DRESS: Counterclockwise from top, Natural Balance's 2011 float weighed a record 84,300 pounds
the company's 2012 float, ''Surf's Up,'' includes a wave pool for surfer dogs
floats ride on heavy-duty chassis. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATURAL BALANCE PET FOODS
RONALD AHRENS)(AU1)
PETAL CARS: Wes Hupp, left, plans to navigate a Rose Parade float for the 35th time
floral displays grew elaborate on floats of the 1930s
 in 1995, the City of Inglewood sponsored a huge touring car covered with flowers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PASADENA TOURNAMENT OF ROSES)(AU12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARADES & MARCHES (90%); SURFING (87%); TOURNAMENTS (73%); DOGS (72%); PET FOODS (64%); AIR FARES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1040 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Send In the Food Trucks

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
AN urban farm off the East River. Artisanal food and crafts sold out of recycled shipping containers at the Dekalb Market. Smorgasburg and the Brooklyn Flea on the Williamsburg waterfront.
They all share a hipper-than-thou aesthetic. They also share a pedigree: they were all set up to breathe some life into vacant lots.
In an unlikely convergence of interests, it is the real estate executives who have invited the vendors to set up shop on their stalled construction sites. The owners, after all, get what they want: foot traffic to their neighborhood, which they hope will translate into good business or quicker apartment sales when they finally put a building up on the lot. And the vendors get cheap, sometimes free, space. 
Many of these popular spots are remaining open through the winter or are planning to return in the spring and summer. Other undeveloped lots have also been optioned for interim duty as a food-truck lot and a kind of time-share backyard; some will even play host to various art exhibits.
These are happy solutions to an economic problem. The sluggish market has effectively turned off the spigot for construction financing, so there are more than 600 stalled construction sites in New York City, according to a recent count by the city.
For some developers, providing passers-by something other than a construction fence to look at is reason enough to find a temporary tenant.
The Dekalb Market, a cheerful riot of color with its painted cargo containers, is hard to miss from Flatbush Avenue Extension in Downtown Brooklyn. Run by Urban Space, which also operates the holiday markets in Union Square and Columbus Circle, the market sits on the western edge of City Point, a huge project that will open its first 50,000 square feet of retail space sometime next year and plans to keep growing into 2020.
''The market brings life to the site,'' said Tom Montvel-Cohen, a spokesman for City Point. ''Now, when 50,000 people drive by every day, they see something interesting there -- it's a lot better than a 'coming soon' sign.''
A sign outside Riverpark Farm, at the eastern end of 29th Street, informs passers-by that it is on the future site of the second tower at the Alexandria Center for Life Science, ''where construction was temporarily suspended due to the unprecedented worldwide financial crisis of recent years.''
The farm, which provides most of the produce for Tom Colicchio's restaurant Riverpark, has put its 6,000 plants under plastic tents to survive the winter. Warm-weather plants like okra and tomatoes have been replaced with hardier ones like carrots. The plants are grown in stacked milk crates, which will be moved elsewhere on Alexandria's campus when construction finally begins, but there are no plans to move them anytime soon.
Joel Marcus, chairman of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, says that although his company has the wherewithal to self-finance its next building, ''there are a lot of economic storm clouds around right now, and we're not going to be foolish about how we deploy capital.''
In addition to giving diners at Riverpark an unusual farm-to-table experience, Mr. Marcus said the farm, a field of green before the tents went up, had been ''a big attraction for our other tenants as well.'' It has been such a success, he added, that Alexandria plans to help create others on stalled sites it owns elsewhere, for instance in Massachusetts and North Carolina.
Other developers say interim uses have drawn crowds that have helped further define the neighborhoods around their development sites.
The Rockrose Development Corporation owns several lots and buildings in the Court Square area of Long Island City, Queens. In July, Rockrose agreed to let the New York City Food Truck Association use one of the parking lots as a food-truck lot, free of charge. A rotating schedule of trucks arrives each workday to cater to nearby office workers.
Then, in August, Rockrose offered a different lot to 3rd Ward, an arts group that hosted Dumpster pool parties every weekend and will do so again next summer. Rockrose also plans to let Chashama, an organization that has linked artists and performers with vacant locations since 1995, use several buildings for gallery and theater space.
''This takes the parcels there and causes some excitement, gets people out on the street,'' said Patricia Dunphy, a senior vice president of Rockrose. ''What we're really doing is neighborhood building, and the young people that these kinds of things attract are going to be our target group.''
The Brooklyn Flea and Smorgasburg, the open-air shop and food markets that ran on weekends into November and drew as many as 15,000 people a day, may have helped sell apartments at the Edge, a two-building condo complex in Williamsburg with 564 apartments. The markets were on the waterfront lot that is to be the site of a third condo tower.
The developer, Douglaston Development, sold 98 apartments in 2010 but has sold more than 250 this year, bringing the building to 80 percent sold. ''Success has a thousand fathers,'' said Jeffrey E. Levine, chairman of Douglaston Development, adding that there was no question the markets were ''a boon to sales and a boon to foot traffic.''
The sales office was so busy on weekends when the markets were still running, sometimes handling as many as 75 visitors a day, that the development stopped giving tours of its amenity space to avoid annoying residents trying to lounge peacefully by the pool or use the gym.
Mr. Levine said the rent the Brooklyn Flea paid to run the two markets had barely covered costs for security and cleanup. ''But this was not a money-making effort,'' he said. ''It always was a marketing focus.''
Jonathan Butler, a founder of the Brooklyn Flea, said he had been looking for a Williamsburg site for some time to complement the Flea's first site in Fort Greene. ''For us it was a no-brainer to go over there,'' he said. ''And they were smart enough to recognize it would be a big win for them, too.'' Smorgasburg is set to return to Williamsburg on April 7, the Flea on April 8.
''The operators of the Flea are hoping we never build another building,'' Mr. Levine said. ''You tell me when commercial banking comes back, and I'll tell you when we'll begin the next tower.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: POP-UP VEGGIES: Carrots from Riverpark Farm, on a stalled work site near the East River. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(RE1)
SECOND ACTS: Real estate companies are inviting vendors to set up shop on stalled construction sites again next year. Zack Pickens, left, of Riverpark Farm will be growing vegetables this winter on East 29th Street. The Dekalb Market in Downtown Brooklyn, below left, was created out of colorful shipping containers. Diners flocked to Smorgasburg on the Brooklyn waterfront last summer. It is to return in April. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHESTER HIGGINS Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES
 HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); CONTAINERIZATION (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); RESTAURANTS (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1041 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Via YouTube, Leading Tours of the City's Art Scene

BYLINE: By JED LIPINSKI

 BODY:
WHEN Loren Munk began furtively filming New York City gallery and museum openings in 2006 -- ''working undercover,'' as he put it -- he was regularly kicked out by security guards and threatened with legal action for copyright infringement.
Since then, however, Mr. Munk's camera has become a welcome guest, and using the alias James Kalm, he has uploaded more than 900 videos to his YouTube channels, the James Kalm Report and James Kalm Rough Cut, which have been viewed nearly two million times in total. 
Curators searching for free promotion now invite him to document their shows. Fans of the project range from New York art world insiders to members of the Papulankutja aboriginal community in the desert of Western Australia.
They are 500 miles from the nearest small town, Anthony Spry, a former art teacher in Papulankutja who introduced his students to the Kalm Report, said in an e-mail from Australia.
''But the videos made them feel as if they were at the center of the New York art scene,'' he said.
Which is exactly where Mr. Munk, a 59-year-old painter, has been for the past five years. Several nights a week, he rides his mountain bike to art shows across the city from the 3,800-square-foot loft he shares with his wife in Red Hook, Brooklyn. His videos -- recognizable for their unseen narrator's labored breathing, jerky camera work and informed but uncritical commentary -- run about 10 minutes and are shot with a tiny Canon Elph digital camera.
''There's the great Chuck Close,'' he said while filming a recent visit to Gavin Brown's Enterprise gallery in Chelsea, before comparing the exhibiting artist's technique to that of the post-painterly abstractionists.
''But he doesn't just go to Chelsea,'' said James Panero, an editor at The New Criterion, a conservative culture journal, who has written about Mr. Munk. ''He goes to the most out-of-the-way places and treats them with the same level of importance. I think his videos will one day be in the Archives of American Art.'' That is a Smithsonian Institution collection.
For Mr. Munk, what happens outside a gallery is almost as important as what happens inside. His videos typically begin with street scenes: a busker playing ''Stairway to Heaven'' near the Metropolitan Museum; children dancing in the spray of an open fire hydrant in Bushwick, Brooklyn. ''I want to show viewers that art exists on streets like the ones they live on, not in isolated white cubes somewhere,'' he said.
''Coverage of the art world is fading from the mainstream press,'' Mr. Munk added. ''So I'm trying to use alternative media to fill the void.''
Raised in Pocatello, Idaho, Mr. Munk came to New York City in 1979 after a four-year stint in the Army. He attended the Art Students League on the G.I. Bill of Rights and made what he calls neo-Cubist paintings while moonlighting as a street artist: squeezing paint directly from its tubes to tag walls and bridge overpasses with the words ''Real Paint.''
In 1981, Mr. Munk was arrested on graffiti charges, which unexpectedly raised his credibility. ''Getting arrested was great for my career,'' he recalled, noting that the publicity led to sold-out shows for his paintings in New York and group exhibitions in France and Brazil.
But when the art market collapsed in 1989, two years after the stock market crashed, so did Mr. Munk's career in New York. The recession coincided with the birth of his two sons, now 21 and 24. And though he continued to sell some work through private dealers in Europe, he said, he felt ''completely cut off'' from the art world by the mid-1990s.
Mr. Munk's re-immersion began in 2002, when he started writing for The Brooklyn Rail, a monthly arts and culture magazine, working under the pseudonym James Kalm.
Asked why he adopted an alter ego, Mr. Munk said, ''In the art world there's a sense that if you're not a blue-chip artist by age 45, you're not worth considering.'' Today, he said, it is no secret that James Kalm is Loren Munk (it says so on his Web site). ''But back then, using James Kalm was a way of starting fresh.''
Paradoxically, Mr. Munk's forays into print and video have heavily influenced his paintings, which in turn have generated renewed interest in Mr. Munk among the art world establishment.
In September, the Lesley Heller Workspace on the Lower East Side held a solo exhibition of his new work: a series of paintings that map the location of notable artists' studios, galleries and hangouts in New York over the last century. In her review of the show for The New York Times, Roberta Smith wrote, ''Mr. Munk gives dizzying visual expression to some of what lures the art-driven to the city: the sense of possibility in the air and of history beneath our feet.''
During a visitor's recent trip to his studio, Mr. Munk unveiled a 10-by-15-foot painting titled ''Super Map,'' which diagramed the artistic history of neighborhoods like SoHo, Chelsea and the East Village. The Bushwick section remained incomplete.
''Ten new galleries opened there this fall,'' he said with a sigh. ''It's getting hard to keep up.''
Later that afternoon, Mr. Munk pedaled across the Brooklyn Bridge to the Steven Harvey Fine Arts Project on Forsyth Street. Wearing a Burton backpack and paint-speckled pants, he trained his Elph on charcoal drawings by the painter Bob Thompson, who died in 1966 at age 28, and whom Mr. Munk called ''a proto-version of Jean-Michel Basquiat.''
Among the guests was Katherine Bradford, a painter whose work is in the collection of the Metropolitan Museum. ''He deserves a MacArthur grant for what he's doing,'' she said, adding that Mr. Munk had filmed a show of hers in 2007. Across the room, Mr. Munk was closely examining a sketch of Nina Simone. ''Look at him,'' Ms. Bradford said. ''Bob Thompson's been dead over 40 years, and here's Loren doing him a favor.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MEDIA: Loren Munk, above, with some of his paintings showing sites tied to art, and, below, making a video of the work of Bob Thompson at the Steven Harvey Fine Arts Project. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ERIC MICHAEL JOHNSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); FILM (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (77%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (75%); STREET ART (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); COPYRIGHT (72%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (57%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (57%); CONSERVATISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WESTERN AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1042 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: Occupy Wall Street

 BODY:
''WE ARE THE 99 PERCENT.'' It was so much beyond a local slogan: the louder it was spoken, the more it began to say. My job, my streets, my economy, my riot, my skin. Cities shook their souls out. The yearning went global. Some protesters poured gasoline into bottles and lit the sky with fire. Others unfurled hammocks under light poles. The idea was to be seen, to be heard, to be tweeted. The year 2011 was an evanescent spectacle of anger. Every corner was a world, and every world had its corners. The bankers stood back, the corporations hushed a moment, the politicians held their breath, and the cops took out their pepper spray. It might have begun in Wisconsin, had its adolescence in Greece, and shattered the night in London, but it lost and won its innocence in Zuccotti Park. Suddenly, a tent had as much meaning as a tower. Kids from all over the country boiled collard greens in the courtyard of commerce. The city's bureaucrats tried frantically to barricade them in, or out -- nobody seemed sure which. The anger rolled all the way down to Wall Street and the markets shivered a moment. When cold weather kicked in, the tents began to disappear and the anger diffused, but the images remained, another sort of fire in flight. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: London: Right: A building burned in the Croydon section in August after three days of unrest between the police and rioters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FACUNDO ARRIZABALAGA/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
Madison, Wis.: Thousands of teachers, state workers and students filled the state capitol in February to protest cuts to benefits and efforts to curtail the collective bargaining rights of state employees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER/GETTY IMAGES)
Manhattan Right: Brandon Watts, a demonstrator at Zuccotti Park, was injured in a scuffle with police officers. Below: An arrest during Occupy Wall Street's Day of Action on Nov. 17. Below right: Workers cleaned Zuccotti Park after almost two months of encampment. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(SR4)
Athens: Center: Riot police officers and demonstrators clashed in June during protests against austerity measures. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PANAGIOTIS TZAMAROS/REUTERS)
Portland, Ore.: A police officer used pepper spray on a protester in November. The spray, used as a crowd control measure, has become a topic of national debate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RANDY L. RASMUSSEN/THE OREGONIAN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (SR4-SR5)
Barcelona, Spain: Left: Demonstrators spoke out against the banking system in October as part of a wave of protests in cities across the world. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILIO MORENATTI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Los Angeles: Will Harris, 20, from Toronto, played the guitar sitting in a hammock in a tree at Occupy Los Angeles near City Hall in October. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA / THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Oakland, Calif.: Protesters climbed on tractor-trailers loaded with shipping containers at the Port of Oakland on Nov. 2, effectively shutting down the port. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENT PORTER/ THE PRESS DEMOCRAT, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(SR5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); RIOTS (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (78%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (74%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (59%) UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1043 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE LIVES THEY LIVED; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Keith W. Tantlinger, b. 1919

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
David Leonhardt is the Washington bureau chief for The Times.

 BODY:
Stacking boxes is not one of the more complex tasks that humans perform. We learn to do it as children, with alphabet blocks, Legos and the like. And yet for decades, the difficulty of stacking large boxes -- crates and containers -- was a major impediment to global trade. Merely moving one large container required painstaking work in which longshoremen attached and detached hooks to the corners of each container before moving on to the next one. They certainly could not repeat the process to stack containers many stories high.
In the 1950s, a longtime trucking executive named Malcom McLean decided there had to be a better way, and he turned to Keith W. Tantlinger, an engineer at a truck-trailer manufacturer in Spokane, Wash., to solve the problem. Tantlinger developed a lock that connected to the corners of containers and that crane operators could mechanically open and close from their seats. 
The lock, which led to the adoption of uniformly sized containers over the next 15 years, caused a revolution in shipping. The time and cost of transporting goods fell sharply, which contributed to an astonishing boom in global trade. Now containers are a fixture on the American landscape, piled neatly alongside highways, airports and ports. They even had a pop-culture cameo, as the backdrop to the second season of ''The Wire.''
Tantlinger's lock deserves a place on any list of economically significant inventions of the 20th century. Unlike some of the other items on that list, however, it is fairly pedestrian from a technological standpoint. It is not a car or a jet engine or a silicon chip. It is a metal lock. But it ushered in a new way of doing things. ''There was no breakthrough in terms of material,'' says Marc Levinson, the author of ''The Box,'' which tells the story of containerization. ''There was a breakthrough in thinking through the entire process and coming up with a neat and economical solution.''
Economists have long understood that technological advance is crucial to economic growth and, by extension, higher living standards. In recent years, thanks partly to the work of Paul Romer, a New York University professor, they have also begun to recognize the importance of processes, rules and systems. The great advances in health and longevity came not only from new medicines but, more important, from the spread of clean water, sanitation systems and rules requiring doctors to wash their hands. The Internet depends on both the invention of the personal computer and the notion of connecting personal computers to one another. Modern societies rely on laws to establish the trust that is crucial to market economies.
You can make a good argument -- as Romer and others do -- that the greatest opportunities for progress today lie with better rules and systems. Improving schools is more about process than laptops. Reining in the financial excesses that caused the bubble and bust depends on better regulations, more effectively carried out. Reducing errors and expanding preventive medicine, as Atul Gawande, the surgeon and writer, puts it, ''can arguably save more lives in the next decade than bench science, more lives than research on the genome, stem-cell therapy, cancer vaccines and all the other laboratory work we hear about in the news.''
In each of these cases, as with Tantlinger's lock, technology matters. He held a patent for his invention, after all. But it is a patent for the less glamorous side of progress, the hard, creative work that allows mundane objects to fill new needs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A drawing from Tantlinger's 1958 patent for stacking shipping containers. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM THE ESTATE OF HELMUT NEWTON. CONTAINER: UNITED STATES PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); AIRPORTS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); WRITERS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); COMPUTER CHIPS (63%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (60%); TRUCK TRAILER MFG (54%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (71%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1044 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Embraces Low-Key Plan In Iraqi Crisis

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and THOM SHANKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As Iraq erupted in recent days, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. was in constant phone contact with the leaders of the country's dueling sects. He called the Shiite prime minister and the Sunni speaker of the Parliament on Tuesday, and the Kurdish leader on Thursday, urging them to try to resolve the political crisis.
And for the United States, that is where the American intervention in Iraq officially stops.
Sectarian violence and political turmoil in Iraq escalated within days of the United States military's withdrawal, but officials said in interviews that President Obama had no intention of sending troops back into the country, even if it devolved into civil war. 
The United States, without troops on the ground or any direct influence over Iraq's affairs, has lost much of its leverage there. And so the latest crisis, a descent into sectarian distrust and hostility that was punctuated by a bombing in Baghdad on Thursday that killed more than 60 people, is being treated in much the same way that the United States would treat any diplomatic emergency abroad.
Mr. Obama, his aides said, is adamant that the United States will not send troops back to Iraq. At Fort Bragg, N.C., on Dec. 14, he told returning troops that he had left Iraq in the hands of the Iraqi people, and in private conversations at the White House, he has told aides that the United States gave Iraqis an opportunity; what they do with that opportunity is up to them.
Though the president has been heralding the end of the Iraq war as a victory, and a fulfillment of his campaign promise to bring American troops home, the sudden crisis could quickly become a political problem for Mr. Obama, foreign policy experts said.
''Right now, Iraq, along with getting Osama bin Laden, succeeding in Libya, and restoring the U.S. reputation in the world, is a clear plus for Obama,'' said David Rothkopf, a former official in the administration of Bill Clinton and a national security expert. ''He kept his promise and got out. But the story could turn on him very rapidly.''
For instance, Mr. Rothkopf and other national security experts said, Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq is swiftly adopting policies that are setting off deep divisions among Sunnis, Kurds and Shiites. If Iraq fragments, if Iran starts to assert more visible influence or if a civil war breaks out, ''the president could be blamed,'' Mr. Rothkopf said. ''He would be remembered not for leaving Iraq but for how he left it.''
Already, Mr. Obama is coming under political fire. Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said that Mr. Obama's decision to pull American troops out had ''unraveled.'' Appearing on CBS News on Thursday, Mr. McCain said that ''we are paying a very heavy price in Baghdad because of our failure to have a residual force there,'' adding that while he was disturbed by what had happened in the past week, he was not surprised.
Administration officials, for their part, countered that it was hard to see how American troops could have prevented either the political crisis or the coordinated attacks in Iraq.
''These crises before happened when there were tens of thousands of American troops in Iraq, and they all got resolved, but resolved by Iraqis through the political process,'' said Antony J. Blinken, Mr. Biden's national security adviser. ''The test will be whether, with our diplomatic help, they continue to use politics to overcome their differences, pursue power sharing and get to a better place.''
So far, the administration is maintaining a hands-off stance in public, even as Mr. Biden has privately exhorted Iraqi officials to mend their differences. Several Obama administration officials have been on the phone all week imploring Mr. Maliki and other Iraqi officials to quickly work through the charges and countercharges swirling around Mr. Maliki's accusation that the Sunni vice president, Tariq al-Hashimi, enlisted personal bodyguards to run a death squad.
Aides said that Mr. Biden talked to Mr. Maliki; Osama al-Nujaifi, a Sunni political leader; and Jalal Talabani, the Kurdish leader. He urged the men to organize a meeting of Iraq's top political leaders, from Mr. Maliki on down, conveying the message that ''you all need to stop hurling accusations at each other through the media and actually sit together and work through your competing concerns,'' a senior administration official said. That official, like several others, agreed to discuss internal administration thinking only on the condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the issue.
American officials say they believe that Mr. Talabani is the best person to convene such a meeting, because he is respected by the most Iraqis.
Mr. Biden is not the only high-ranking American official who is actively involved in discussions with Iraqi officials. David H. Petraeus, the director of the C.I.A. who formerly served as the top commander in Iraq, traveled to Baghdad recently for talks with his Iraqi counterparts.
Beyond that, Obama administration officials have conveyed to Mr. Maliki that the American economic, security and diplomatic relationship with Iraq will be ''colored'' by the extent to which Mr. Maliki can hold together a coalition government that includes Sunnis and Kurds, one administration official said.
Even without a military presence in Iraq, the United States maintains at least some leverage over Iraqi officials. Iraq wants to purchase F-16 warplanes from the United States, for example, and the Obama administration has been trying to help the government forge better relations with its Sunni Arab neighbors, like the United Arab Emirates, which recently sent its defense chief to Baghdad to talk about how the Iraqis could participate in regional exercises.
Pentagon officials and military officers had hoped a deal could be struck with the Iraqi government to keep at least several thousand American combat troops and trainers in Iraq after Dec. 31. But domestic politics in Iraq made that impossible, and the outcome also fit with Mr. Obama's narrative of a full withdrawal from a war he vowed to end.
Even plans quietly drawn up for the continued deployment of counterterrorism commandos were just as quietly pulled off the table, to make sure that Mr. Obama's pledge to reduce American combat forces to zero would be met, according to senior administration officials.
The only American military personnel remaining in Iraq today are the fewer than 200 members of an Office of Security Cooperation that operates within the American Embassy to coordinate military relations between Washington and Baghdad, particularly arms sales.
The United States has about 40,000 service members remaining throughout the Middle East and the Persian Gulf region, including a ground combat unit that was one of the last out of Iraq -- and remains, at least temporarily, just across the border in Kuwait. Significant numbers of long-range strike aircraft also are on call aboard aircraft carriers and at bases in the region.
As the responsibility for nurturing bilateral relations shifts to the State Department, the responsibility for security assistance moves to the C.I.A., which operates in Iraq under a separate authority, independent of the military.
Although the United States military is unlikely to return to Iraq, it is possible that military counterterrorism personnel could return, if approved by the president, under C.I.A. authority, just as an elite team of Navy commandos carried out the raid that killed Osama bin Laden under C.I.A. command.
The C.I.A. historically has operated its own strike teams, and it also has the authority to hire indigenous operatives to participate in its counterterrorism missions.
''As the U.S. military has drawn down to zero in terms of combat troops, the U.S. intelligence community has not done the same,'' a senior administration official said. ''Intelligence cooperation remains very important to the U.S.-Iraqi relationship.''
The official acknowledged a risk punctuated by the recent unrest. ''There are serious counterterrorism issues that confront Iraq,'' the official said. ''And we don't want to let go of the very solid relationships we have built over the years to share information of importance to both countries.''
Even if the unrest rose to levels approaching civil war, American officials said, it was unlikely that Mr. Obama would allow the American military to return.
''There is a strong sense that we need to let events in Iraq play out,'' said one senior administration official. ''There is not a great deal of appetite for re-engagement. We are not going to reinvade Iraq.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Iraq tightened security measures on Saturday at the entrance to a Christian church in Baghdad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SABAH ARAR/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); BOMBINGS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOE BIDEN (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (57%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); FAYETTEVILLE, NC, USA (72%) ARIZONA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1045 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE LONG RUN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2462 words

HEADLINE: At Harvard, a Master's in Problem Solving

BYLINE: By JODI KANTOR

 BODY:
A few years after Mitt Romney graduated from Harvard Business School, he returned to share a simple, timeworn lesson in an unusual way.
Invited to give a presentation on balancing work and family, he began by telling students that they were like multinational corporations, recalled Clayton M. Christensen, who organized the event. ''You have the same question as General Electric,'' said Mr. Romney, then a young father and a management consultant. ''Your resources are your time and talent. How are you going to deploy them?''
He drew a chart called a growth-share matrix with little circles to represent various pursuits: work, family, church. Investing time in work delivered tangible returns like raises and profits.
''Your children don't pay any evidence of achievement for 20 years,'' Mr. Romney said. But if students failed to invest sufficient time and energy in their spouses and children, their families could become ''dogs'' -- consultant-speak for drags on the rest of the company -- sucking energy, time and happiness out of the students. The presentation was a hit: Mr. Romney had proved the value of family time based not on emotion but on yield. 
That day, Mr. Romney was not only displaying his hallmark brand of almost comically analytical reasoning but also returning to the place where he first absorbed it. From 1971 to 1975, he simultaneously earned business and law degrees from Harvard.
When he arrived, he was the son of a Republican luminary -- George W. Romney, who had run the American Motors Corporation before becoming governor of Michigan -- who was still insecure about his own talents, according to family members, former classmates and professors. When he graduated, he was an academic star and a hot recruit, convinced he could play on a bigger field than he had previously dreamed. He had found two new homes: in Massachusetts, a state he would eventually govern, and in finance, a field he would eventually help shape.
Those years also help illuminate who Mr. Romney is now: a Republican candidate for president accused of having no core convictions, a once-moderate governor suspected of tailoring his views for political expediency. Nearly four decades ago at Harvard, Mr. Romney embraced an analytical, nonideological way of thinking, say former classmates and professors, one that both matched his own instincts and helped him succeed. On a campus ripe with political and social ferment, he willfully distanced himself not only from politics, but also from larger ideological frameworks and heated debates.
Eager, driven and tremendously hardworking, he mastered the Harvard Business School method of literally looking at the world on a case-by-case basis, approaching each problem completely on its own terms and making recommendations based on data.
In the classrooms where Mr. Romney distinguished himself, there were no ''right'' answers -- no right questions even, just a daily search for how to improve results. The Mitt Romney classmates knew then was a gifted fix-it man, attuned to the particulars of every situation he examined and eager to deliver what customers wanted.
''Mitt never struck me as an ideologue outside matters involving church and family,'' said Howard Brownstein, a classmate. ''He is a relativist, a pragmatist and a problem solver.''
Overprepared
On the first day of business school in fall 1972, Mr. Romney took his assigned seat in the amphitheater-like classroom, slid his name card into a slot where it would be visible to the professor and panicked.
Stewart DeBruicker, his marketing professor, had interrogated a student who gave answers so polished that the rest of the class sat stunned. ''These guys are going to be so much better,'' he later reminisced to his eldest son, Tagg, who shared his father's reaction in an interview.
No matter that Mr. Romney had already attended Stanford as well as Brigham Young University as an undergraduate, and one year of Harvard Law School; no matter that his father was by then the secretary of housing and urban development serving under President Richard M. Nixon, and that everyone in the class knew the Romney name, or that the marketing genius who was called on had been warned ahead of time, as students discovered later. Growing anxious ''is the way he approaches everything; he's rarely overconfident,'' said the younger Mr. Romney, who eventually earned his own Harvard M.B.A. ''He doesn't take anything for granted and overprepares.''
That was why Mr. Romney was cramming a law degree as well as a business one into four packed years at Harvard: as a kind of insurance for success, to give him more options and training, classmates said. Besides, George Romney, who never graduated from college, had insisted on the law degree. ''My dad wanted H.B.S.,'' Tagg Romney said, referring to the business school. ''The joke is they compromised and did both.''
Initially, Mitt Romney seemed to be preparing to become his father, albeit with a fancier education -- he planned to return to the Midwest and become an auto executive. He carried a hand-me-down briefcase with the initials G.W.R. around campus, telephoned his father when a law school project touched on housing policy and wrote a paper on a statute governing automobile dealerships. (''Quite good, not brilliant,'' the professor, Detlev F. Vagts, rated it in an interview. ''I felt his research was relatively easy.'')
One day Colin C. Blaydon, a finance professor, gazed up into the amphitheater to see a familiar face: George Romney, sitting in on his son's classes.
Unlike George W. Bush, who was a year behind him in business school and was immortalized in the yearbook blowing a huge bubble of gum, Mr. Romney had limited interest in socializing. (The two barely met, but if Mr. Romney had known where Mr. Bush ''was gonna go, I would have been on him like white on rice,'' he later told The Atlantic.)
And unlike Barack Obama, who attended Harvard Law School more than a decade later, Mr. Romney was not someone who fundamentally questioned how the world worked or talked much about social or policy topics. Though the campus pulsed with emotionally charged political issues, none more urgent than the Vietnam War, Mr. Romney somehow managed to avoid them.
''Mitt's attitude was to work very hard in mastering the materials and not to be diverted by political or social issues that were not relevant to what we were doing,'' said Mark E. Mazo, a former law school study partner.
Instead, Mr. Romney threw his energy into being the best. Nearly all business school students formed study groups to help them digest the constant flow of cases, but Mr. Romney recruited a murderers' row of some of the most distinguished students in the class. ''He and I said, hey, let's handpick some superstars,'' said Howard Serkin, a classmate.
Every day for an hour, the all-male group -- there were relatively few women in the program back then -- sat at a semicircular table outside the classroom and briefed one another on the reading material. It was an exercise in mutual protection, since any of them could be called on in class and their performance would affect their grades. Mr. Romney served as a kind of team captain, the other members said, pushing and motivating the others.
''He wanted to make straight A's,'' Mr. Serkin said. ''He wanted our study group to be No. 1.'' Sometimes Mr. Romney arrived early to run his numbers a few extra times. And if his partners were not prepared, ''he was not afraid of saying: 'You're letting us down. We want to be the best,' '' Mr. Serkin added.
The students were experiencing the most unusual, distinguishing aspect of a Harvard Business School education: in every class, even accounting, there were no textbooks, no theories of management, just the school's vaunted set of cases -- one-page summaries of real-life corporate situations.
The case study method ''doesn't start with the theory or even principles,'' said Kim B. Clark, a friend of Mr. Romney's who later became dean of the school. ''It starts with 'All right, what is going on? What does the data tell us?' ''
The cases did not even lay out questions. Students had to analyze the material, sometimes just a paragraph long, figure out the company's problems and pose solutions. ''The case study method is like trying to train doctors by just showing them [sick] patients, rather than by showing them textbooks to depict what a healthy patient should look like,'' said Mr. Brownstein, the former classmate.
Mr. Romney was in his element. His class performances were outstanding; his peers described him as precise, convincing and charismatic. He won the high grades he craved, becoming a George F. Baker Scholar, a distinction awarded to the top students in every business class, and would graduate from the law school with honors as well.
The education ''played to his natural instincts to be a problem solver, to be a person who thrived on facts and data,'' Mr. Clark said. But he also had an advantage over some other students: the many hours he had spent discussing work with his father had given him insight into the life of a top executive, said Steven C. Wheelwright, a friend from back then who became a Harvard Business School professor.
Socially Apart
If Mr. Romney melded with the school intellectually, he kept some distance from it socially. He was married and a parent. In the liberal precincts of Cambridge, he and his wife, Ann Romney -- pictured wearing matching sweaters at a fall 1973 business school clambake, with their two sons on their laps -- seemed like they were from ''out on the prairies,'' Mr. Brownstein said.
The future governor abstained from things many other students were doing: drinking coffee or alcohol, swearing, smoking. (Sometimes he made little coughing noises around smokers, Mr. Brownstein remembered, politely letting them know he disapproved.) When classmates visited the Romneys' tidy home in suburban Belmont, they felt as if they were visiting a friend's parents, not members of their own generation, and the young couple's closest friends came from the Mormon church.
Some who knew Mr. Romney thought his faith contributed to his success at Harvard. He was becoming a leader in the Boston church; earlier, he had spent two years as a missionary in France, acquiring salesmanship and leadership skills, according to Mr. Wheelwright, a fellow Mormon. ''You've learned a set of principles that are very much what the Harvard Business School happens to be looking for, but also what successful business leaders are like,'' he said.
The Romneys did let outsiders into their world, sometimes inviting study group members to their weekly ''family home evening,'' a night Mormons traditionally set aside for husbands, wives and children to spend time together. (Mr. Brownstein remembered Mrs. Romney showing him her basement: in accordance with Mormon custom, she had a year's supply of food stored in bins and freezers.)
Mr. Romney's relationships, even with other church members, had a pattern: he was supportive, earnest and trustworthy, said a dozen friends from those years. But he was not particularly open; confessing frustration or turmoil was just not his way.
One night Mr. Mazo, his law school classmate, watched Mr. Romney wince as he realized the jacket he was wearing had a Camp David logo on it. Mr. Mazo assumed his friend was being modest and did not want to flaunt his father's presidential connection.
Perhaps, but what Mr. Romney did not discuss was that his father's experience in the Nixon cabinet was bruising. The two longtime rivals loathed each other and clashed over housing policy. By the summer of 1972, Mitt Romney's mother, Lenore Romney, even wrote a pleading letter to a top Nixon adviser about what she described as the president's ''low regard'' and poor treatment of her husband.
Seeing a parent struggle in the spotlight is the classic trial of the politician's child, but Mitt Romney said almost nothing about the situation to anyone. He put up with the occasional friendly taunts from his study group members -- ''If your father had gotten to be president, more doors would be open and you wouldn't have to study so hard.''
Mr. Romney talked plenty about business, though -- the role of the corporation and executives, the ways the old model he had grown up with were changing. By 1973, the economy was sinking, in part because of an oil crisis. But at the same time, businesses were using new technologies, from electronic calculators to mainframe computers, to analyze and exploit data more fully than ever before.
''He was there at this epicenter where you had a few people who realized that these changes opened up enormous opportunities,'' Mr. Clark said.
Mr. Romney never seriously considered practicing law. ''He wanted to make money, he wanted to solve problems,'' said Mr. Serkin, his former classmate. (In Mr. Romney's world, money is ''how you keep score,'' he added.)
About a year before he graduated, he attended a recruiting session for the Boston Consulting Group, a small firm in the new field of management consulting. Kenneth Woolley, a Stanford business graduate and a fellow Mormon who led the presentation, told the students that by joining his firm, they would have ''the opportunity to deal with business problems at the very highest level at a very young age,'' he recalled later. ''When you're 25 years old, you're looking at problems at the C.E.O. level.'' Mr. Romney was enthralled; a few months later, he had a job offer.
Today, Mr. Romney does not speak much about his business school degree. But he remains quite attached to the star study group he put together all those years ago, faithfully attending dinners the men hold every five years.
Clustered around a small table, reviewing cases with them, Mr. Romney was in his comfort zone, observed Stephen M. Waters, another member of the group, and he does not miss a chance to return to that setting. Mr. Romney even showed up the year he was put in charge of cleaning up the troubled 2002 Olympic games, stopping by for an hour before flying to Athens for a meeting of the International Olympic Committee.
''It was like a case in the old days,'' Mr. Brownstein recalled. Mr. Romney analyzed it the same way, telling the graying group five things that had to be fixed and how he was going to do it.
The men gathered most recently in 2009, after Mr. Romney's unsuccessful presidential bid. His old friends asked him about the experience, and he pointed out how much simpler decisions are in business than in politics. ''You end up taking into consideration things that wouldn't be important in a business decision,'' Ronald J. Naples remembers him saying.
THE LONG RUN: Articles in this series are exploring the lives and careers of the candidates for president in 2012.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE YOUNG COUPLE: Being a married father set Mitt Romney apart in graduate school. Above, with his wife, Ann, and two sons at a business school clambake in 1973.
 OLD FRIENDS: From left, Howard Serkin, Don Polak, Ronald J. Naples and Mitt Romney, part of a business school study group that still gets together for dinners every five years. (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF DON POLAK) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); FAMILY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (71%); POLITICS (69%); GOVERNORS (68%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (57%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1046 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; AT THE TABLE KAFFEEKLATSCH; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Where the Hot Chocolate Does a Triple Axel

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

 BODY:
Madonna was not careening around the outdoor skating rink at the Standard Hotel -- she's more likely to materialize upstairs at the Top of the Standard, the celebrity magnet formerly known as the Boom Boom Room -- but she and her ilk are well-represented on the piped-in soundtrack. On a recent Friday night, the mood was festive at the Kaffeeklatsch, the pop-up Alpine snack hut and rinkside cafe, at 848 Washington Street, where the shrieks of amateur skaters skidding, sliding and occasionally going boom, were also part of the entertainment. Admission is $12, rental skates are $3, heat lamps keep the crowd warm, and apres-ski couture capped by furry hats is the prevalent attire. Grandma's hot chocolate is served with a twist: fortifying shots of bourbon, brandy, whiskey and whatnot -- Dutch courage for skittish skaters. 
IN THE SEATS Joshua Crouthamel, 31, an American freelance travel writer based in Sydney, Australia, and his partner, Kurt Fulepp, 27, an Aussie who does marketing for Bing, the Internet search engine, were on a weekend jaunt to experience ''New York Christmas kitsch.'' They met up with Melissa Maguire, 31, who attended New York University with Mr. Crouthamel. She is now a producer for NY1, married and living in Jersey City.
ON THE PLATES What was in the cups mattered most. All three ordered the peanut butter hot chocolate made with dark chocolate ($7 each), and all three splurged for a $4 spike: Ms. Maguire opted for bourbon, Mr. Fulepp took brandy and a spot of soy, and Mr. Crouthamel had Irish whiskey. They shared a Strawberries and Cream Crepe ($6), and Mr. Fulepp, the health nut in the trio, had tomato soup with fingerling sourdough bread for dipping ($7).
WHY THEY CAME The two N.Y.U. alums have reunions once or twice a year; this time Mr. Crouthamel brought Mr. Fulepp along. ''We wanted to spectate the meatpacking district hipness,'' Mr. Crouthamel said. ''And we figured the rink might be the best and closest place to find something close to snow.'' Mr. Fulepp, of the land of sun and Uggs, was fascinated by the skating. ''I've never skated in my life,'' he said. But he was forbidden by his seatmates to frolic on the ice. ''There isn't enough room in Economy Premium for you to fly home in a cast,'' Mr. Crouthamel warned.
WHAT THEY TALKED ABOUT Ms. Maguire's decade-long romance with her college sweetheart, which has culminated in a happy marriage. ''I was her relationship counselor back in college and for years afterward,'' Mr. Crouthamel said. The men bemoaned the inferior peanut butter in Australia. ''My mom mails us Skippy Chunky,'' Mr. Crouthamel said. The post-rink plans included karaoke in Hell's Kitchen. The goal was finding a joint that had Mariah Carey's ''All I Want for Christmas Is You'' in the rotation. ''When it comes to karaoke,'' Mr. Fulepp said, ''I rock the terrible.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WITH ICE: Melissa Maguire, Kurt Fulepp, center, and Joshua Crouthamel at the rinkside cafe at the Standard Hotel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARI MINTZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); AMATEUR SPORTS (78%); HAUTE COUTURE (74%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (73%); SKIING (71%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (70%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (67%); SEARCH ENGINES (52%)

PERSON: MADONNA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1047 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Escape to Hawaii, After a Tricky Week in Washington

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
KAILUA, Hawaii -- For President Obama, simply going on vacation these days seems to demand the theatrics of a Houdini-like escape from the padlocked box of Washington.
When the president finally arrived at his secluded rental house here on Friday evening to celebrate Christmas with his family, it ended a roller-coaster week in which Mr. Obama's planned getaway was threatened, until the last minute, by House Republicans' refusal to pass a bill.
Mr. Obama's relief at getting away was evident: minutes after arriving in this tranquil town on Oahu's windward side, his motorcade set off again, to Waikiki, where he dined with his family and friends at Morimoto, a stylish Japanese fusion restaurant. 
The president created the preholiday drama himself by declaring this month that neither he nor Congress should leave Washington without passing an extension of the payroll tax cut -- one provision of his jobs bill that appeared to have bipartisan support.
''With respect to my vacation, I would not ask anybody to do something I'm not willing to do myself,'' Mr. Obama said on Dec. 8, all but wrapping himself in chains and climbing into a locked box.
''So I know some of you might have been looking forward to a little sun and sand,'' he told White House reporters. ''But the bottom line is, is that we're going to stay here as long as it takes to make sure that the American people's taxes don't go up on Jan. 1.''
Going on vacation has often been politically inconvenient for presidents. John F. Kennedy, for example, found himself on Cape Cod when the Soviets began building the Berlin Wall. But for Mr. Obama, vacations have become high-wire affairs, marked by partisan criticism of his decision to take them and by repeated delays as he rushes to wrap up loose ends.
Last December, the president was furiously lobbying the Senate to approve an arms treaty with Russia so he could leave for Hawaii. In August, he left for Martha's Vineyard, Mass., accompanied by his top counterterrorism adviser and an economic policymaker, lest anyone think he was planning to relax with unemployment at 9 percent. Then he had to return to Washington early to avoid Hurricane Irene, which was advancing up the East Coast.
The latest vacation plan brought the most drama yet, with Air Force One sitting on the tarmac while the White House press corps and the staff wondered whether Mr. Obama would end up padding around the residence alone on Christmas morning.
A week ago, the president sent his wife, Michelle, and their daughters, Malia and Sasha, to Kailua, keeping the family dog, Bo, for company during the long days and nights of haggling with Speaker John A. Boehner and the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell.
When Mr. Boehner's Republican caucus balked at a deal on extending the payroll tax cut on Tuesday, it looked as if, at a minimum, Mr. Obama would have to curtail his visit to just a weekend and return home before New Year's Day to break the impasse.
The political gamesman Karl Rove advised House Republicans to hold firm, even though they were being excoriated for potentially raising taxes for 160 million Americans, and wait for the president to leave for Hawaii. Then, Mr. Rove said, the Republicans could criticize Mr. Obama as being derelict and then pass the same Senate compromise they had rejected.
At the White House, talk of Hawaii suddenly became as scarce as advance notice of a commando raid on a leader of Al Qaeda. And yet, Mr. Obama kept behaving, curiously, like a man getting ready to make a dash for Air Force One.
On Wednesday, as House Republicans dug in their heels, the president took off for some last-minute Christmas shopping in Alexandria, Va. He bought a Wii video game for his daughters, keeping mum about when he planned to give it to them.
On Thursday, as the Republicans showed signs of caving in to pressure from within their own ranks, reporters scheduled to travel with the president were instructed to drop off their luggage at the White House -- itinerary and estimated departure undisclosed.
Not until Friday afternoon, after Air Force One was fueled and its engines whirring, did Mr. Obama finally give up the game. ''Thank you, guys,'' he said in the White House briefing room, after praising Congress for passing the payroll tax extension. ''Aloha.''
Twenty minutes later, Mr. Obama was on the plane, Bo was scampering up and down the aisles, cadging food from the staff members, and the president was off to steal another week in paradise.
Though the president spent a quiet morning in his house on Christmas Eve -- skipping his usual trip to the gym -- he headed out later for golf at a nearby Marine base. He is also expected to take his daughters for ritual outings to get Hawaiian shave ice.
The trip also has a serious side. White House aides say Mr. Obama will probably take his daughters to the grave of his grandfather, Stanley Dunham, who is buried in Punchbowl Cemetery. On Christmas Day, he and the first lady may also serve food to troops stationed here.
The White House has a strict no-news policy on these vacations. Joshua R. Earnest, the deputy press secretary, said Hawaii had ''always been first and foremost about spending time with family and reconnecting with some of the president's earliest and closest friends.''
But outside events have a way of intruding. This year, the White House is watching events in North Korea, where some experts worry that Kim Jong-il's son, Kim Jong-un, may resort to belligerent acts to tighten his grip on power.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LOBBYING (76%); TAX RELIEF (75%); TAX LAW (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); RESTAURANTS (69%); CORPORATE TAX (68%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (61%); MILITARY WEAPONS (61%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%); TERRORISM (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%); MITCH MCCONNELL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (77%) HAWAII, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1048 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Afghanistan Low on News Agenda

BYLINE: BRIAN STELTER


HIGHLIGHT: A report by the Project for Excellence in Journalism counted an increase in international news over all, owing largely to the war in Libya and the protests in the Middle East and Africa. 

 BODY:
The 10-year-old war in Afghanistan remained just a blip on the American news media's radar in 2011.
Of all the news content in newspapers and on the Web, television and radio this year, Afghanistan accounted for about 2 percent of coverage, according to the Project for Excellence in Journalism, an arm of the Pew Research Center.
Six other subjects were given more sustained attention than the war there. In descending order, they were the economy in the United States; the unrest in the Middle East; the 2012 presidential election; the earthquake, tsunami and ensuing nuclear disaster in Japan; the killing of Osama bin Laden; and the shooting in Tucson in which six were killed and Representative Gabrielle Giffords, Democrat of Arizona, was critically injured.
The figures come from the project's weekly monitoring of 52 major papers, news Web sites, TV networks and stations, and radio stations. The project uses that sample to show what is atop the national news agenda, and what is not.
In a year-end report last week, the project's researchers noted that "despite a drop in coverage of the war in Afghanistan," there was an increase in international news over all, owing largely to the war in Libya and the protests in Egypt, Tunisia and other countries. The United States' withdrawal from Iraq accounted for less than 1 percent of all news coverage.
Since Pew started its weekly monitoring in 2007, the war in Afghanistan has never accounted for more than 5 percent of all news coverage on an annual basis. In 2010, Afghanistan accounted for 4 percent of all news coverage.
The United States has about 91,000 troops in Afghanistan now. For much of this year and last, about 100,000 United States troops were in the country.
The news executives that pay for bureaus in Afghanistan have had to contend with tight news-gathering budgets, safety concerns and, in some cases, a perception that American audiences are not interested in the situation.
The relative dearth of coverage has brought occasional criticism in the United States, particularly from those who recall vigorous coverage of the Vietnam War. "Other than in its early stages in 2001-2002, the American press has greatly underreported this war," John Hanrahan, formerly the executive director of the Fund for Investigative Journalism, wrote in an essay for Nieman Watchdog in August.
"This paucity of reporting - the almost total reliance on just a few reporters - has stark implications for how the war is perceived back home," Mr. Hanrahan wrote. "The fewer the reporters, the fewer the first-hand accounts needed for citizens to form knowledgeable opinions of the war."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); INTERNET VIDEO (90%); TSUNAMIS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); SHOOTINGS (75%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (70%); ARMED FORCES (63%); EXECUTIVES (62%) Afghanistan War (2001- ); Japan Earthquake and Tsunami (2011); Middle East and North Africa Unrest (2010- ); News and News Media; Presidential Election of 2012; Tucson Shooting (2011); Project for Excellence in Journalism; Afghanistan

ORGANIZATION: Project for Excellence in Journalism

PERSON: GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (54%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (92%) ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); AFRICA (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (91%); JAPAN (79%); TUNISIA (79%); EGYPT (79%); IRAQ (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%) Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2011



1049 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Reads and Reactions

BYLINE: MICAH COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: In this holiday edition: holiday greetings and gratitude, plus Ron Paul's surge and Christmas number crunching. 

 BODY:
Reactions
Santa has been a fickle friend to the nine Republican presidential candidates in Iowa. He seems unable to decide whose stocking to stuff. Our last Reads and Reactions came while Newt Gingrich's stocking was overflowing with polling leads in Iowa and the nation. Well, Santa continues to dither, and now it's Ron Paul who can't wait to open his present. Mr. Paul has climbed atop Iowa polls, and FiveThirtyEight's Iowa forecast currently has him and Mitt Romney neck-and-neck.
Is Mr. Paul simply the latest "surge" candidate? Will he follow the example set by Michele Bachmann, Rick Perry, Herman Cain and Mr. Gingrich in climbing quickly to the rooftop of Iowa polls only to fall down the chimney just as rapidly? Don't be so sure.
The Economist's Will Wilkinson looked at the Paul campaign so far and concluded that Mr. Paul's rise is fundamentally different from the other surges. Mr. Wilkinson put together this illuminating graph, which nicely sums up much of the Iowa campaign to date (although Mrs. Bachmann's rise and fall are not included): 
As Mr. Wilkinson pointed out, "A series of candidates enjoyed fleeting seasons of glory, then tanked disastrously. ... Mitt Romney's support dipped slightly as each flavour of the week hastened toward his peak, then he more or less recovered with each precipitous fall. All the while Ron Paul chuffed steadily along, slowly but surely picking up support." 
At The Huffington Post, Robert Naiman sees Mr. Paul's steadily climbing strength in Iowa as a function of his support among "antiwar Democrats and independents," pointing to a Public Policy Polling survey as evidence.
CNN's Ali Velshi presented FiveThirtyEight's Iowa forecast to Mr. Paul, and he seemed pleased (although that was when his Iowa odds were a bit higher). Even if Mr. Paul actually goes on to win the state, however, he would be a far way from winning the nomination, wrote Amanda Paulson at The Christian Science Monitor. FiveThirtyEight agreed, writing that -- in order to really compete for the nomination -- Mr. Paul would need the other non-Romney candidates to stay in the race as long as possible.
Finally, our last comment-of-the-half-month of the year goes to yetanotherjohn, one of our more enduring commentators. Yetanotherjohn threw down this unexpected beauty to describe the arduous Iowa caucuses versus the relative ease of voting in New Hampshire's primary: "If you think of voting like preparing a ham and eggs breakfast, in NH you are the chicken and in Iowa you are the pig contributing to the meal."
Reads
It's too late now, but for a mere $101,000, you could have bought, for a friend or family member, all the items listed in "The 12 Days of Christmas," including a partridge in a pear tree. That figure comes from the Christmas Price Index released for the 28th year by PNC Wealth Management. Our colleague Elizabeth Olsen looked at what the index says about the state of the economy.
The Atlantic's Philip Bump exhibited some mathematical rigor and figured out just how daunting a task Santa has on Christmas night, delivering presents to all the Christian children in the world.
The Atlantic also provided a more utilitarian read: the probability of a white Christmas.
And, here's a few non-holiday reads.
With the N.B.A. season beginning today, here's a stats-centric season preview from Steve von Horn at Brew Hoop.
Sarah Mimms, at National Journal, found that the many complaints from Ron Paul supporters that their candidate is being ignored by the media are not backed up by the data. Indeed, she concludes, "The Ron Paul revolution is being televised."
At Smart Politics, a blog by the University of Minnesota's Humphrey School of Public Affairs, Eric Ostermeier crunches the numbers on the G.O.P. debates to find which debate's moderators inserted themselves most often into the discussion. (The answer: "FOX moderators have averaged a 40 percent larger share of speaking time compared to moderators at the other eight debates since September," Mr. Ostermeier wrote.)
Mike Konczal, at Rortybomb, asks and answers the question: "What is the Real Unemployment Rate, and How Could We Tell?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); RELIGION (50%) Politics

PERSON: RON PAUL (91%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (88%); MICHELE BACHMANN (73%); RICK PERRY (58%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (58%); HERMAN CAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011



1050 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: The Anti-Entitlement Strategy

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney is pushing hard against "government dependency," "passivity" and "sloth." Will his argument set the terms for the 2012 campaign? 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney wants to stigmatize most "safety net" spending - the array of social insurance programs from Medicare to food stamps to unemployment compensation to free school lunches - as a form of welfare that is "cultivating government dependence."
"Our growing welfare state is slated to cost $10.3 trillion over the next 10 years - that's $72,000 a household," Romney told voters in Bedford, N.H., on Dec. 20:
Once we thought 'entitlement' meant that Americans were entitled to the privilege of trying to succeed in the greatest country in the world. Americans fought and died to earn and protect that entitlement. But today the new entitlement battle is over the size of the check you get from Washington.
An entitlement, as the government defines it, "legally obligates the United States to make payments to any person who meets the eligibility requirements established in the statute that creates the entitlement."
Romney and his aides have designed his rhetoric to define pretty much all spending on entitlements, including provisions for the injured, unemployed, sick, disabled or elderly as benefits to the poor who, Romney implies, are undeserving. And it doesn't matter whether the money to pay for these programs comes from employer and employee contributions and not just tax revenue - they are all under suspicion.
In an op-ed published Dec. 19 in USA Today, Romney described the 2012 election as a battle between the partisans of entitlement and the partisans of opportunity:
Will the United States be an Entitlement Society or an Opportunity Society? In an Entitlement Society, government provides every citizen the same or similar rewards, regardless of education, effort and willingness to innovate, pioneer or take risk. In an Opportunity Society, free people living under a limited government choose whether or not to pursue education, engage in hard work, and pursue the passion of their ideas and dreams. If they succeed, they merit the rewards they are able to enjoy.
Romney's formulation exploits public distrust of programs that explicitly serve the poor. In 2010, about a fifth of the federal budget - $786 billion or 22 percent, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities - went to programs that "kept an estimated 15 million Americans out of poverty and reduced the depth of poverty for another 29 million people." These programs include Medicaid, the Children's Health Insurance Program, earned-income tax credits, cash payments to eligible individuals or households such as Supplemental Security Income for the elderly or disabled poor, unemployment insurance, food stamps, school meals, low-income housing, child-care and programs for abused and neglected children. 2010 spending for Pell college grants for low-income students was $21 billion and spending that year for Head Start was $7.2 billion
Without the underlying belief many voters hold that programs serving low-income beneficiaries perpetuate poverty and discourage work, Romney could not have banked on voter support for his answer in this exchange between the candidate and Chris Wallace on FOX News Sunday the week before Christmas.
Wallace pressed Romney to explain how poor recipients of government entitlement programs would fare under his campaign's plan to "cut Medicaid, health coverage for the poor, by $700 billion. Cut food stamps by $127 billion. Cut Pell Grants for low- income college students in half." Wallace then pointedly asked, "You don't think if you cut $700 billion in aid to the states that some people are going to get hurt?"
Romney replied without hesitation:
In the same way by cutting welfare spending dramatically, I don't think we hurt the poor. In the same way I think we cut Medicaid spending by having it go to the states, run more efficiently with less fraud, I don't think we'll hurt the people that depend on the program for their health care.
In attacking the "entitlement society," Romney is not breaking new ground; he is following in the path of conservative talk show hosts and Tea Party leaders who think social insurance spending is destroying America.
Elements of the conservative intelligentsia see it the same way. An editorial last year in The Wall Street Journal charged, for example, that the Obama administration's health care reform bill was designed to become another element of the Democratic "cradle-to-grave entitlement citadel."
A sign held up prominently at Tea Party rallies reads, "You Are Not Entitled To What I Earn."
And of course Romney is not the only candidate who likes to underscore this argument. Representative Michele Bachmann, Republican of Minnesota, a competitor for the Republican nomination, told a gathering in St. Louis in February:
So, what you have to do, is keep faith with the people that are already in the system, that don't have any other options, we have to keep faith with them. But basically what we have to do is wean everybody else off. And wean everybody off because we have to take those unfunded net liabilities off our bank sheet.
The campaign strategy adopted by Romney attempts to mitigate one of the problems facing Republicans pressing for major domestic spending cuts: the American public is highly conflicted on the subject of providing aid to people in need. While strongly opposed to "welfare," decisive majorities support more spending in key public policy areas.
Polls conducted since 1972 by the General Social Survey show that by margins of two to one, voters consistently say too little is spent on the poor, on education, on health care, on drug treatment - the list is long.
This internal conflict on the part of voters - opposed to welfare but supportive of programs for the poor - demonstrates how important it is for each side to frame the debate in terms favorable to its own cause - just what Romney is trying to do with his use of the catch phrase "entitlement society."
The word entitlement "implies that those receiving government aid have a sense of entitlement, that they're getting something for nothing," as Bill Boyarsky, a lecturer at the University of Southern California's Annenberg School for Communication, points out.
The 2-to-1 level of support found for spending on the poor for health care and other social services disappears when voters are asked specifically about welfare, according to the general survey; when that word is used, voters by a better than 2-to-1 margin, 49.3 percent to 21 percent, say that "too much" is spent. In other words, a politician can either use the phrase "spending to help the poor" or the words "welfare" and "entitlement" to describe the government programs to alleviate hardship and therefore produce antithetical reactions in the public.
The issue of race is ever-present. Hostility to welfare is driven by whites, 52.6 percent of whom say "too much" is spent on welfare programs, three times the 16.6 percent who say it's "too little." 43.2 percent of blacks say too little, and 27.3 percent say too much.
Both blacks and whites are highly critical of the effects of welfare, with strong majorities of both races agreeing that the program encourages "people to work less" - 73.7 percent in the case of whites, 74.1 percent in the case of blacks, according to cumulative answers to the General Social Survey's polling from 1972 to 2010.
In "Why Americans Hate Welfare," Martin Gilens, professor of politics at Princeton, sums up this way of looking at the world. "In large measure, Americans hate welfare because they view it as a program that rewards the undeserving poor," Gilens writes. "First, the American public thinks that most people who receive welfare are black, and second, the public thinks that blacks are less committed to the work ethic than are other Americans."
Romney's goal is to persuade swing voters of the imminent moral and material danger that Obama and the Democratic party pose. Here are three more lines from the Romney op-ed.
Over the past three years, Barack Obama has been replacing our merit-based society with an Entitlement Society.
If we continue on this course for another four years, we may pass the point of no return. We will have created a society that contains a sizable contingent of long-term jobless, dependent on government benefits for survival.
Government dependency can only foster passivity and sloth.
This is not the Republicanism of compassionate conservatism, far from it. In recent weeks, the former Massachusetts Governor has laid down a set of markers planting himself firmly on the right - just as Obama has begun to stake out a more leftward position. In outline, we are seeing the beginning of the general election campaign.
Romney's adoption of an anti-entitlement strategy comes at a time when he appears to be looking up from the primaries toward Election Day, which suggests that his hard-line stance will be central to his campaign against Obama and not just a temporary maneuver. We are headed toward an ideological confrontation over the next 11 months of an intensity rarely seen in American political history.

        
Other Stops: Let the Popular Vote Count
        
A Good Speech, Period
        
Bad V.P. Picks
        
Party Rules
        
Go Ahead, Ignore the Economy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); MEDICAID (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TAX LAW (72%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (66%); AGING (66%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (63%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (63%); CHILD ABUSE (60%); CHILD CARE (60%) Barack Obama; entitlements; Federal Budget; Mitt Romney; the presidential election of 2012; Romney, Mitt; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicaid; Presidential Election of 2012; Tea Party Movement; United States Economy; Welfare (US); Annenberg School for Communication; Center on Budget and Policy Priorities; Republican Party; USA Today; Wall Street Journal; New Hampshire; United States

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (84%) Annenberg School for Communication; Center on Budget and Policy Priorities; Republican Party; USA Today; Wall Street Journal

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (50%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%) New Hampshire; United States

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



1051 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: A Watchdog for Conservative Ideals

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

 BODY:
PHOENIX -- Clint Bolick looks like any other high-powered lawyer, for the most part. But glance down at his index finger, which sports a scorpion tattoo, for first-hand evidence of his unconventional streak.
Mr. Bolick has fought for the right of Arizonans to have their toes nibbled. After successfully defending a tattoo artist, he celebrated by having himself inked. From his perch here at the Goldwater Institute, a high-powered libertarian think tank, Mr. Bolick has even picked a fight with an entire professional hockey team.
From a conservative point of view, there is no end to the government interference in individual liberties going on around the country. Some emanates from Washington, but much of it, in the opinion of Mr. Bolick, bubbles up from the bottom, whether from a small-town school board or the Arizona Board of Cosmetology, which Mr. Bolick has sued twice.
The Goldwater Institute, which plays an outsize role in setting the agenda in this state and has helped set up similar litigation outfits in other parts of the country, sees itself as a watchdog for conservative ideals, one that happens to have at its disposal a frenetic staff of lawyers hungry for courtroom battle. 
''There are lots of cozy deals in Arizona, just like everywhere else,'' Mr. Bolick said. ''The last thing you want is for us to find out. It's like a skunk coming to a picnic. We ruin everything.''
The institute was founded by conservative activists in 1988, with the blessing of its namesake, Barry M. Goldwater, the longtime Arizona senator and conservative icon. It was primarily a public policy shop that issued reports, until 2007, when it added a crack litigation outfit. The institute's aggressive lawyers strike fear in the hearts of the state's public officials.
''While the organization may have veered somewhat from Barry Goldwater's conscience of conservatism to that of libertarianism, there is little doubt they are a political and legal force in Arizona, perhaps becoming the most influential state think tank organization in America,'' said Jason Rose, a Scottsdale publicist active in conservative circles.
Mr. Rose has represented Joseph M. Arpaio, the Maricopa County sheriff who finds himself under fire by the Justice Department and an array of other critics. Among the sheriff's detractors has been the Goldwater Institute, which does not hesitate to go after Republicans. ''Our view is that the role of the sheriff is to effectively enforce the law, and we've been sharply critical of his department fulfilling its most basic function,'' Mr. Bolick said.
Some of Goldwater's legal causes can seem rather small-time. Lawyers at the institute's Scharf-Norton Center for Constitutional Litigation defended the right of a voter to wear a Tea Party T-shirt to the polls in Flagstaff, fought restrictions aimed at limiting tattooing in Tempe and Mesa, and, in the toe-nibbling case, helped a salon owner who clashed with the state's cosmetology regulators over using special fish imported from China to eat the dead skin off customers' toes.
The institute, which partially won the fish pedicure case on appeal, went after the Arizona Board of Cosmetology again this month after the agency interfered with a business that provided at-home spa treatments to cancer patients and others
''Defendants' actions irrationally, arbitrarily, and excessively restrict the ability of plaintiffs to operate a legitimate business,'' the Goldwater Institute lawyers wrote in their spirited brief on behalf of Lauren Boice, the owner of Angels on Earth Home Beauty business, in the Tucson area.
Mr. Bolick sees a connection between those clashes and broader matters, like the dispute over matching funds in Arizona's campaign finance reform system that the institute fought before the Supreme Court. All of the disputes, he said, are linked to what he considers limits on liberty.
The Goldwater Institute is eager to defend ''entrepreneurial freedom,'' no matter what the business. Tattoo artists may not appear to be the typical clientele for a conservative legal team, but Mr. Bolick was so instinctively against the City of Tempe's attempts to close a tattoo parlor that after he won the case, he became one of the parlor's first clients and had the scorpion inked on his right index finger.
The institute's legal battles stir plenty of out-of-court controversy, which is one of the points.
John McCain, who holds the Senate seat Mr. Goldwater long occupied, has lashed out at the institute for holding up the purchase of the Phoenix Coyotes hockey team by a Chicago businessman. The National Hockey League bought the team out of bankruptcy in 2009, and the City of Glendale, which hosts the team, wants to sell more than $100 million in municipal bonds to facilitate the deal and ensure that the team stays there.
The institute has threatened to sue Glendale if the deal goes through, prompting Mr. McCain to say that it has lost touch with Mr. Goldwater's ideals.
''He always worked very hard to help our economy, to make sure that businesses and industries were attracted to our state,'' Mr. McCain said in an interview on local sports radio. ''He was proud of our growth. Frankly, I don't believe that he would agree that we should not realize what the real world is. The real world is that people and places compete for professional teams.''
But Mr. Bolick and his colleagues have been aggressive in going after government subsidies for businesses, wherever they occur. ''We're accused sometimes of being in the lap of business, which elicits a belly laugh from me,'' Mr. Bolick said, indicating that prominent Arizona business owners have lobbied the institute's board of directors -- which includes Barry Goldwater Jr., the senator's son and a former California congressman -- to try to head off litigation.
The institute's influence extends well beyond Arizona, where it says it has won 10 court battles, lost 4 and is in the midst of 12 others. The institute has also helped conservative groups in half a dozen other states, among them Maine, Michigan, Nevada, North Dakota, Ohio and Wisconsin, start similar legal units to fight for conservative principles within their borders.
That may mean plenty of angst for liberals in those states. It will probably be a headache for fellow conservatives, too. ''Barry Goldwater called them as he saw them, and we try to do that too,'' Mr. Bolick said. ''He took on people in his own party when he saw the need to do so, and we do, too.''
Local governments in Arizona now consult experts at Goldwater before embarking on financing schemes. Their goal is to avoid receiving a legal brief in the mail typed out with Mr. Bolick's fierce right finger.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Clint Bolick, a lawyer at the Goldwater Institute in Phoenix, is known for aggressive litigation to defend individual liberties. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID KADLUBOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); LAWYERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SHERIFFS (84%); TATTOO PARLORS (77%); POLITICS (76%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); VOTERS & VOTING (61%)

COMPANY: CENTER FOR CONSTITUTIONAL LITIGATION PC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLAGSTAFF, AZ, USA (74%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (72%) ARIZONA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1052 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: American Firms See Europe Woes As Opportunities

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
As Europe struggles with its debt crisis, American businesses and financial firms are swooping in amid the distress, making loans and snapping up assets owned by banks there -- from the mortgage on a luxury hotel in Miami Beach to the tallest office building in Dublin.
The sales are being spurred on because European banks are scrambling to raise capital and shrink their balance sheets, often under orders from regulators. European financial institutions will unload up to $3 trillion in assets over the next 18 months, according to an estimate from Huw van Steenis, an analyst with Morgan Stanley. 
This month a team of three bankers from the London office of the buyout giant Kohlberg Kravis Roberts headed to Greece to examine a promising private company that cannot get Greek banks to provide credit for future growth. The Blackstone Group agreed to buy from the German financial giant Commerzbank $300 million in real estate loans that are backed by properties, including the Mondrian South Beach hotel in Florida and four Sofitel hotels in Chicago, Miami, Minneapolis and San Francisco. Commerzbank is under pressure from regulators to raise 5.3 billion euros ($6.9 billion) in new capital by mid-2012.
Google too saw an opportunity. It bought the Montevetro building in Dublin this year from Ireland's National Asset Management Agency, which acquired it after a huge bank rescue by the Irish government.
''There is clearly a restructuring and shrinking of European financial institutions,'' said Timothy J. Sloan, chief financial officer of Wells Fargo, which last month acquired $3.3 billion in real estate loans from a bank in Ireland. ''And many of the assets they're shedding are in the United States.''
He added, ''We're keeping our eyes and ears open for the right situations.''
American financial firms are taking the plunge in a troubled Europe despite problems of their own. In the last quarter, JPMorgan Chase, which has taken hits to its earnings, increased its total loans to European borrowers.
At Kohlberg Kravis, Nathaniel M. Zilkha, co-head of the special situations group, is expanding his London team to eight, from two, and hoping to take advantage of opportunities in Europe. The firm is even considering potential investments in the country where the crisis began, Greece, despite headlines warning of a default by Athens or the possibility that Greece may withdraw from the euro zone.
''If no one is willing to turn over the rocks, that's when you can make extraordinary investments,'' Mr. Zilkha said. ''The market dislocation in Greece is creating significant opportunities that wouldn't be otherwise available.''
Besides Greece, Kohlberg Kravis bankers have also been looking for deals in Spain and Portugal, where private companies are having a similarly hard time winning new credit or extending existing loans.
Ireland, whose banks were devastated by the collapse of a real estate bubble rivaling the one in the United States, also has deep-pocketed American buyers like Google circling.
But in many cases, the assets are much closer to home.
Last month, Wells Fargo bought the $3.3 billion in real estate loans, which are backed by commercial properties in the United States, that had been owned by the former Anglo Irish Bank. Wells has also bought $2.4 billion in loans and other assets from the private Bank of Ireland, which is trying to raise 10 billion euros ($13 billion) after a bailout by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund.
Even with opposition from consumer advocates, Capital One Financial could soon win final approval from the Federal Reserve for its $9 billion acquisition of ING Direct in the United States, one of the year's biggest banking deals. Based in the Netherlands, ING has been forced by European authorities to divest ING Direct, an online bank, after ING required a $14 billion bailout following the 2008 financial crisis.
Experts expect these kinds of sales to jump as European banks race to meet the June deadline imposed by the European Banking Authority to raise more than 114 billion euros in fresh capital. Financial institutions also have to increase their Tier 1 capital ratio -- the strictest yardstick of a bank's ability to absorb financial blows -- to 9 percent of assets.
Banks get a twofold benefit from unloading assets like real estate loans and other holdings; not only do they have more cash, but there are fewer assets they must hold capital against in case of losses, thereby quickly bolstering Tier 1 levels.
Investing in Europe is not without risk; a big bet on European sovereign debt helped bring down MF Global, which went bankrupt on Oct. 31.
And even as they jump into the new deals, some American banks must deal with their own woes, especially the overhang of soured mortgages from the subprime bubble and bust in the United States. Bank of America, for example, has raised billions recently by selling stakes in banks in Brazil and China.
At the same time, even the strongest banks, like Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase, are suffering significant earnings hits from weak demand for loans, moribund capital markets and new regulations that cut deeply into lucrative fees on debit cards and other products.
But American institutions remain stronger than their European counterparts, said Christopher Kotowski, an analyst with Oppenheimer.
''Everyone is going to be cutting staff and shrinking capital commitments but the Europeans are doing it more,'' Mr. Kotowski said. In large part, that's because earlier in the United States financial crisis, Washington forced American banks to take huge write-downs, while raising tens of billions in fresh capital and halting dividends to conserve cash. European banks have been much slower to take those steps.
Besides buying assets from struggling overseas rivals, Mr. Kotowski predicts that firms like JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup and Goldman Sachs will capture more trading business on Wall Street, especially as French banks like Societe Generale and Credit Agricole and other European institutions pull back.
French banks, in particular, have been heavily dependent on American money-market funds to obtain financing in dollars. With many of these funds now pulling back from those loans, French firms are shrinking. This month, Credit Agricole said it would exit the commodity trading business, while Societe Generale said it was getting out of physical gas and power trading in North America.
Inside his firm, Stephen A. Schwarzman, the chief executive of the Blackstone Group, recently cited the $3 trillion estimate of how much European banks will have to unload, and this summer he told investors that Europe was back on Blackstone's radar after being absent for several years.
''As people become increasingly negative on the environment there, we think we are buying good companies at very good values,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Blackstone Group bought real estate loans backed by properties, including the Mondrian South Beach hotel in Florida.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS GORDON/WIREIMAGE)
 Stephen Schwarzman, chief executive of the Blackstone Group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDER HASSENSTEIN/GETTY IMAGES FOR HUBERT BURDA MEDIA) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EURO ZONE (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); MONETARY UNIONS (66%); EURO (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); KKR & CO LP (83%); COMMERZBANK AG (58%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%); GOOGLE INC (55%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); KKR (NYSE) (83%); CZB (LSE) (58%); CBK (FRA) (58%); BX (NYSE) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); IRELAND (94%); GREECE (92%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); PORTUGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1053 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 99 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include the S.& P./Case-Shiller home price index for October and consumer confidence for December (Tuesday); weekly jobless claims, the Chicago purchasing managers' index for December, and pending home sales for November (Thursday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, financial markets and government offices will be closed for the observed Christmas holiday.
IN EUROPE This week, the European Central Bank will release results of its program to drain 211 billion euros in excess market liquidity created by its purchases of sovereign debt, including Spanish and Italian bonds. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (88%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (88%); BONDS (88%); EURO (87%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); PUBLIC DEBT (86%); CHRISTMAS (85%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (72%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1054 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: Striking Gold, Without a Gold Album

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
Ducking through a crowd of tourists at Rockefeller Center, the singer Cee Lo Green took a breather during rehearsals for NBC's annual tree-lighting concert on Nov. 30. But between a shopping detour at Swarovski Crystal and last-minute talks with the show's producer, there wasn't much time to rest.
It's a pace that Cee Lo, as he is also known, is accustomed to. In the last year, he has won a Grammy Award for a song that became a blockbuster hit despite its unprintable title (officially bowdlerized as ''Forget You''), become a celebrity judge on NBC's talent show ''The Voice'' and, through a calculated media blitz orchestrated by his managers, broken through as a face of mainstream pop culture after nearly two decades as a cult figure.
To sustain his success, Cee Lo has become one of the hardest-working stars in pop. In the days around the tree-lighting schedule he logged about 20,000 miles taping television shows, recording an album and making personal appearances across the United States and in Britain. One day last spring he managed a promotional trifecta, performing in New York in the morning, Alabama in the afternoon and Las Vegas at night. 
''I'm still just a working-class artist, basically,'' Cee Lo said of his schedule, as he waited backstage at Rockefeller Center for some hot tea to soothe his well-traveled vocal cords.
Cee Lo -- a cannonball-shaped man devoted to the Liberace and Elton John school of showmanship -- will earn about $20 million this year. Record sales represent the smallest slice of the revenue pie, according to Larry Mestel, the chief executive of Cee Lo's management company, Primary Wave Music. The collapse in record sales over the last decade has decimated the bottom line, and a hit song alone is no longer enough to bring in superstar wealth.
So even musicians with multiplatinum success have started looking elsewhere for income, especially to increased touring and the kind of commercial deals that result in Miracle Whip product placement in Lady Gaga videos and Taylor Swift's performing at a JetBlue airport terminal.
A look at the numbers shows how the economics of music stardom have changed. Born Thomas Callaway, Cee Lo first struck gold in 2005 as producer and co-writer of the Pussycat Dolls' hit ''Don't Cha''; the next year Gnarls Barkley, his duo with the producer Danger Mouse, reached No. 1 around the world with ''Crazy.''
Those hits brought Cee Lo an industry perch but little mainstream name recognition. The pattern might have continued with his third solo album, ''The Lady Killer,'' which had a modest opening at No. 9 when released late last year by Elektra. By then, however, ''Forget You'' had already snowballed from an online novelty hit into a pop culture phenomenon, with Gwyneth Paltrow singing it on ''Glee.''
''Forget You,'' released in August 2010, reached No. 2 and has sold 5.3 million downloads in the United States, according to Nielsen SoundScan, making it the 12th most downloaded track of all time. (By comparison, Adele's ''Rolling in the Deep,'' the top song of 2011, has sold 5.7 million.)
But today even extraordinary sales numbers like those translate to limited financial success.
A chart-topping single could once be counted on to drive big sales of full albums, which bring in greater royalties. But the ''unbundling'' of albums in the age of iTunes -- the loss of album sales at $10 or $15 when consumers can buy a single song for about $1 -- has contributed to a 58 percent reduction in album sales since 2000. Despite the success of ''Forget You,'' ''The Lady Killer'' has sold only about 450,000 copies in the United States.
''How much do you make on five million singles?'' Mr. Mestel asked. ''It's not $5 million. Apple takes a piece of it, the record company takes a piece of it, the producer takes a piece of it, and then Cee Lo gets a piece of it as the artist.''
A recording contract for an act like Cee Lo would typically offer a net royalty of about 15 percent, according to several music executives. That means that for a $1.29 download from iTunes, after Apple takes its standard 30 percent fee, the artist would be paid 13 or 14 cents; for five million downloads, that amounts to about $650,000. As one of five writers of the song, Cee Lo would also make about $45,000 in publishing royalties on those downloads.
That leaves him a long way from the $20 million he is estimated to make this year. So to help establish Cee Lo as a household name, Primary Wave has over the last year arranged a steady series of TV appearances and endorsement deals that trade on the singer's sense of pageantry, good humor and musical catholicity -- his ''brand.''
The company is made up of many former major-label record executives who have learned to push for unusual marketing strategies. Jeff Straughn, chief executive of the Brand Synergy Group, a partnership with Primary Wave, developed the mini-Elle magazine -- featuring actual paid ads -- that doubled as the liner notes to Mariah Carey's last album.
Cee Lo describes Mr. Mestel and Primary Wave with characteristic impromptu poetry: ''I would describe Larry as a picket fence around my garden of wildflowers.''
The company was set up in 2006 as a music publisher when it paid an estimated $50 million for a 50 percent stake in the Kurt Cobain song catalog, an anchor that brought in Hall & Oates, Gregg Allman, Steven Tyler of Aerosmith, Def Leppard and others. Primary Wave now controls the copyrights to about 10,000 songs -- a minuscule catalog compared with giant music publishers like EMI and Universal, but the company has also established marketing, branding, television and artist management units to exploit songs to their fullest.
In September, Primary Wave's talent management division merged with Violator, one of the top hip-hop and R&B management companies, adding to its roster major acts like 50 Cent, Busta Rhymes and LL Cool J.
''Most publishing companies look at the world as a place to collect,'' Mr. Mestel said. ''They hire lots of accountants and royalty people and wait for opportunities to come in. Even though the biggest piece of our company is publishing, we are a marketing and branding company.''
To promote the Hall & Oates catalog, Primary Wave developed an irreverent online cartoon called ''J-Stache,'' which, like Gogol's nose, follows the exploits of John Oates's signature bushy mustache. Once Joe Elliott of Def Leppard heard about it he made a deal for the group's publishing rights.
''What usually happens when a band signs with a company,'' Mr. Elliott said, ''is that two years down the road it all goes wrong. But these guys seem to actually sweat for their part. They're a publishing company, but they're actively out there working the stuff, banging on doors.''
When Primary Wave took over Cee Lo's management, shortly before the release of ''The Lady Killer,'' he still had a relatively low profile as a solo artist. But the company seized on the early viral success of ''Forget You'' to make Cee Lo a ubiquitous face.
His over-the-top performances at half a dozen award shows -- performing with the Jim Henson Company puppets at the Grammys, playing a piano that spun 360 degrees above the crowd at the Billboard awards -- proved highly successful. His television campaign for the year has also included ''Saturday Night Live,'' an appearance on the NBC comedy-drama ''Parenthood'' and his own talk show on the cable channel Fuse (''Talking to Strangers'').
Primary Wave also booked numerous commercial endorsements for Cee Lo, in traditional TV spots like a 7Up commercial that has been running since October, as well as a Web video series for Absolut Vodka and personal appearances for Duracell and Pretzel M&M's.
''He has a very strong brand, an unusual look and a great sense of fun,'' said Mark Burnett, the veteran reality-TV producer, who signed up Cee Lo for ''The Voice'' shortly after seeing him on ''Saturday Night Live.'' ''It's a sense of theatrical, big-scale fun. It's not just singing. It's a real show with Cee Lo.''
More television is on its way. Backstage at the last night of ''The Voice'' last June, he signed a contract with Mr. Burnett for a reality show on British television, ''Cee Lo Takes the U.K.,'' on which his old group, the Goodie Mob, records a reunion album in London and soaks up the local customs. And next year Cee Lo will follow Celine Dion and Prince to Las Vegas with ''Loberace,'' a theatrical show to be presented at Planet Hollywood.
With his schedule and his association with various companies and products, Cee Lo inevitably faces two risks: overcommitment and overexposure. After ''The Voice'' became unexpectedly successful, he had to pull out of a tour with Rihanna.
Overexposure may be hard to judge for an industry that relies on as much promotion as possible. But despite the array of companies Cee Lo has worked with, his representatives say they have guarded his integrity. (''You don't know how many deals I've turned down,'' Mr. Straughn said.)
For Cee Lo, turning himself into a marketable brand has been an essential part of his success, even if it does keep him busy.
''There's security in being a brand; there's certainty in being a brand,'' Cee Lo said. ''McDonald's is a brand. And when you get your fix for a Big Mac, where do you go? There's only one place you can go for a Big Mac, and that's big McDonald's. But my brand has a broader horizon, because my brand is, 'Whatever you think you want, I just may be able to give it to you.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cee Lo Green, an entertainer devoted to theatrical showmanship, will earn about $20 million this year, and a fraction of that is from his music. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Cee Lo performing at the Grammys last February. ''There's security in being a brand
there's certainty in being a brand,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN WINTER/GETTY IMAGES)
From left, Cee Lo appeared on ''Saturday Night Live,'' did a promotion for Pretzel M&M's, performed at a concert promoting Range Rover and made a ''Today'' show appearance in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, FROM LEFT, DANA EDELSON/NBC
STEPHEN LOVEKIN/GETTY IMAGES
NEILSON BARNARD/GETTY IMAGES FOR RANGE ROVER
AND LUCAS JACKSON/REUTERS) (B5) DRAWINGS
 CHART: Cee Lo's Busy Year: The musician Cee Lo Green is constantly promoting himself through his talk show, other television shows and product endorsements, as well as performing. (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); PRODUCT PLACEMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (73%); AIRLINES (72%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (66%); AIRPORTS (50%)

COMPANY: D SWAROVSKI & CO (58%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (52%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS327215 GLASS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING MADE OF PURCHASED GLASS (58%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (58%); SIC3231 GLASS PRODUCTS MADE OF PURCHASED GLASS (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

PERSON: CEE LO GREEN (92%); TAYLOR SWIFT (58%); ELTON JOHN (58%); LADY GAGA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1055 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1972 words

HEADLINE: Alliance Formed Secretly To Win Deal for Campus

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
The first secret meeting took place last March, in a place no one would suspect: Beijing. For the second, in July, they holed up in the Cornell Club of New York, rather than a hotel where they might be noticed by outsiders.
Over three days, more than a dozen top officials from Cornell University and the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology barely ventured out of that 14-story clubhouse near Grand Central Terminal.
The object of discussion was the tantalizing $400 million in real estate and infrastructure upgrades that the Bloomberg administration was dangling for someone to build a new graduate school of applied sciences. A reporter from The Chronicle of Higher Education, having learned that Peretz Lavie, Technion's president, was in the country, could not pry loose his location or purpose. The veil of secrecy held.
It was not until summer's end that David J. Skorton, Cornell's president, told Robert K. Steel, the deputy mayor for economic development who was overseeing the contest for the science campus, that an alliance had been hammered out. ''I wasn't aware that they were dating,'' Mr. Steel recalled, ''and he called me up and said, 'Good news, we're getting married.' '' 
And the two universities waited until Oct. 18 -- 10 days before the city's deadline for proposals -- to announce the union publicly. Last Monday, when their joint bid was crowned the winner of the city's year-long, international competition, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg made it clear that the synergy between the two institutions was a critical factor.
The unsuspected marriage, according to interviews with university and city officials, was one of many juicy pieces of the proposal that its architects unveiled strategically, to keep competitors in the dark and make the maximum impression on city officials.
The delivery of tens of thousands of alumni signatures supporting Cornell's bid, the release of ambitious energy efficiency plans for a campus on Roosevelt Island, a stunning $350 million gift to underwrite construction, a $150 million venture fund for start-up businesses -- each was leaked on a carefully constructed timetable.
''They kept putting on more and more attractive aspects to what was already quite a good proposal,'' Mr. Steel said.
But the most advantageous surprise was the partnership that Cornell, thought by many to be the likely bridesmaid to front-running Stanford University, forged with Technion, a winner of Nobel prizes and incubator of high-tech businesses that was one of the few overseas institutions the city explicitly invited to participate.
Separated by 6,000 miles, the two universities do not appear to have much in common. Technion is a public university whose programs focus on science, engineering, medicine and architecture, where Israelis pay tuition of less than $6,000 a year. Cornell, originally a land-grant university whose upstate campus is well known for programs in hotel management, labor relations and agriculture, is part of the storied Ivy League, with the full range of liberal-arts majors, a $5 billion endowment and an undergraduate sticker price topping $52,000.
But they quickly found that they had similar visions for the new graduate school -- and complementary assets.
Cornell's engineering and computer science programs rank among the nation's top 10, it has deep financial resources, and it knows New York City, home to its medical school and an array of other programs. Technion has the main asset Cornell lacked, especially when compared with Stanford: It is the engine of one of the world's great high-tech business zones, with alumni running hundreds of companies near its Haifa campus.
''What we bring to the table is our experience in educating generations of engineers who are also entrepreneurs and have changed the Israeli economy,'' Dr. Lavie said.
Even before the mayor announced the competition in December 2010, the two universities were planting seeds of collaboration. That summer, Dr. Skorton had visited Technion during a tour of the Middle East. In their first meeting, Dr. Lavie, an effusive sabra who is an expert on sleep disorders, and Dr. Skorton, a buttoned-down Californian who is an accomplished jazz musician, ''hit it off really well and became friends,'' Dr. Skorton said.
''Since both of us come from a medical background,'' Dr. Lavie added, ''we had a common language.''
It turned out that a surprising number of professors at each institution had studied or taught at the other. They shared major benefactors, including Irwin Jacobs, a co-founder of the telecommunications technology firm Qualcomm, whose advice they would seek on the project. Dr. Lavie said another common donor, whom he would not name, had spent two hours telling him to bid with Cornell.
Despite its prestige, local advantage and engineering prowess, Cornell was considered a bit of an underdog in the competition. In fact, given their New York pedigrees, Columbia and Cornell officials were somewhat offended by the whole notion of the open competition, which many saw as a cover to court Stanford or the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. When M.I.T. chose not to participate, Stanford became an immediate favorite.
''Listen, Stanford is Stanford,'' Mr. Steel said. ''They're a bit like lining up against the Yankees.''
But Cornell was primed for the project in less obvious ways. In 2009-10, Dr. Skorton led a state task force on economic partnerships between businesses and universities, which dwelt at length on the role of technology.
An expert in cardiac imaging technology, Dr. Skorton once taught electrical and computer engineering and spends more than 20 percent of his time in Manhattan, where his wife teaches at Cornell's medical school and the university provides an apartment for him. Cornell's provost, W. Kent Fuchs, is a former engineering school dean.
In 2010, the university wrote a strategic plan calling for ''a stronger footprint or base for Cornell's education, research and outreach programs in New York City,'' acknowledging the decades-old concerns over the limitations of its home upstate. While graduates of Stanford, M.I.T. and Columbia -- and for that matter, Technion -- have helped spawn robust high-tech corridors near their campuses that became hubs for talent and venture capital, few of Cornell's alumni entrepreneurs choose to settle in Ithaca, which has a population of 30,000 and is known more for harsh winters than for start-ups. (Indeed, some 50,000 Cornell alumni live in the New York metropolitan area.)
Mr. Bloomberg's contest allowed Cornell to accelerate its dreams beyond anything it had dared contemplate. Similarly, Technion wanted to expand beyond Israel, and New York, home to its American fund-raising arm, was a natural choice.
Dr. Lavie was pleasantly surprised when the city invited Technion to join the contest, but he knew that his institution could not muster the resources to act alone. Early on, he said, Technion talked briefly with Columbia about collaboration, but their visions did not match up.
In February, when city officials invited universities to tour potential campus sites, Mr. Fuchs, Cornell's provost, and Paul D. Feigin, Technion's senior executive vice president, started a series of conversations about working together.
But the schools submitted separate ''expressions of interest'' in March, two of 18 the city received, so as not to tip their hand.
Soon afterward, Dr. Lavie and Mr. Fuchs were both in China for a celebration of Tsinghua University's centennial. There, they had the first intensive discussion of collaboration, and Technion agreed to show Cornell its expression of interest.
''Boy, we found a lot of similarities,'' Mr. Fuchs said. The schools shared an interest in Roosevelt Island, in organizing around flexible ''hubs'' rather than the usual departments, in programs for city youth, and in a master's program in applied sciences that would blur traditional boundaries between disciplines.
A flurry of conversations by phone and Skype ensued, Cornell showed Technion its preliminary plan, and at that three-day July gathering at the Cornell Club on 44th Street they forged the outlines of a deal.
Cornell would pay for construction and have ultimate control of the site, but they would collaborate in designing curriculum, selecting students and supplying faculty.
By their own account and that of city officials, the schools' leaders believed that their plan needed to be clearly better than Stanford's to win -- that if things were roughly equal, Stanford would prevail.
The city asked for at least 250,000 square feet in the first phase, and a million over 25 years. Cornell-Technion proposed 400,000 and 2.1 million, with space for 2,500 students and 280 professors. Others said classes would start in September 2013; Cornell-Technion promised September 2012.
The plan was tailored to New York, focusing on technology for fields in which the city is a leader, like medicine, urban planning, finance and advertising. The schools stressed Cornell's strong alumni presence in New York, especially its burgeoning technology sector.
They were also determined to be the most agreeable: When the city asked bidders to ''mark up'' drafts of legal agreements, signaling their objections, Mr. Steel recalled, the edits from Cornell and Technion ''were much lighter than those from other institutions.''
Meanwhile, Dr. Skorton had been cultivating Cornell's major benefactors, including Charles F. Feeney, the billionaire founder of Duty Free Shoppers who created the Atlantic Philanthropies to give away his fortune. They talked at length about the Roosevelt Island project several times, Dr. Skorton said, beginning in late spring or early summer. But it was not until after the proposals were submitted on Oct. 28 that Mr. Feeney revealed the scope of his generosity, a gift more than double the size of the largest in the university's history.
Dr. Skorton saved that information for just the right moment. After Thanksgiving, the city invited five contenders to make detailed presentations. Cornell and Technion went last, on Dec. 3.
''President Skorton ended it by saying 'I want to tell you all that we have a $350 million gift,' '' Mr. Fuchs recalled. ''You could have heard a pin drop in that room.''
Mr. Steel said, ''It's pretty breathtaking when other schools are talking about the challenges of fund-raising, and one of your strongest competitors says on the first phase financing: done.''
In negotiations, the city tried to sweeten the bids. Stanford balked at some conditions, while Dr. Skorton sought more ammunition from Cornell's trustees at a Dec. 8 meeting.
''I asked if they would be willing to take $100 million of the endowment for start-up companies,'' he recalled. ''And they said, 'How about $150 million?' ''
No other school offered a venture fund, something that Seth W. Pinsky, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, called ''particularly attractive to us.''
By the time Stanford shocked everyone involved by dropping out Dec. 16, city officials said, Cornell and Technion had all but won. Mr. Bloomberg made it official three days later.
''Of all the applications we received, Cornell and the Technion was far and away the boldest and most ambitious,'' the mayor said. A big part of its appeal, he added, was ''a tantalizing, groundbreaking partnership.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 6, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article on Dec. 25 about Cornell's successful bid to build an applied science campus in New York City in conjunction with the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology erroneously included a program among those offered by the university. While Cornell has programs in hotel management, labor relations and agriculture, it does not have one in forestry.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: David J. Skorton of Cornell, at lectern, with Peretz Lavie of Technion Israel, announcing the details of their plan last Monday.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg at the news conference for the deal. He called it ''a tantalizing, groundbreaking partnership.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (88%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (87%); TUITION FEES (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); STARTUPS (69%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (67%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (61%); VENTURE CAPITAL (60%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (50%)

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2012



1056 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: A Tax to Narrow the Rich-Poor Gap

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Don't Tax the Rich. Tax Inequality Itself,'' by Ian Ayres and Aaron S. Edlin (Op-Ed, Dec. 19), proposing an extra tax limiting the incomes of the top 1 percent of earners to 36 times the median household income:
Professors Ayres and Edlin have proposed an ingenious solution to the insidious problem of the expanding income gap between the rich and everyone else. But their formula could do with some adjusting. 
Having noted that since the Reagan era what they call the Brandeis Ratio -- the ratio of the average income of the nation's richest 1 percent to the median household income -- has skyrocketed from 12.5 to a ''whopping 36 times,'' they then suggest that Congress limit this ratio to 36 times going forward! Why would the ratio not be 25 times (splitting the difference) or even 12.5 times (assuming the Republicans are correct in revering Reagan as one of our great presidents)?
Surely we are charged with reversing the problem rather than extending it in perpetuity.
IAN CROWE Darien, Conn., Dec. 19, 2011
To the Editor:
The fundamental problem with our tax code is that it has been hijacked by social engineers. Taxes ought not incentivize one social outcome over another, but simply cover the nation's tab. Thus, Ian Ayres and Aaron S. Edlin's proposal of instituting a Brandeis Ratio tax is bad policy and gives credence to conservative cries that the left is in the business of wealth redistribution.
Federal revenues pay for federal spending, and those who have the most (the rich) should pay a greater share of the burden. That's why we have a progressive tax structure.
Income inequality is indeed a tremendous problem, but one borne of tax cuts amid a deficit, poor financial regulations, a weakened labor movement and bad campaign finance policy. The nation should address these problems, not further complicate the tax code.
ARI GERSTMAN Washington, Dec. 20, 2011
To the Editor:
Ian Ayres and Aaron S. Edlin write, ''It would be bad for our democracy if 1 percenters started making 40 or 50 times as much as the median American.''
Are Bill and Melinda Gates a great threat to democracy? Jeff Bezos? Oprah Winfrey? Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg? I fail to see how those who have amassed great fortunes in America threaten American democracy.
They do not plot coups or finance fascist militias. They do, however, give lots of money to wonderful charitable and educational organizations.
I think much of the animus toward the enormous success of such people is rooted in jealousy. ''It's not right that some people should make so much more money than I do'' is the spiteful feeling behind much of the opposition to the 1 percenters.
RUSS NIELI Princeton, N.J., Dec. 20, 2011
The writer is a lecturer in the politics department at Princeton.
To the Editor:
The proposal by Ian Ayres and Aaron S. Edlin is brilliant and timely. But the tax rate under their plan would be a ''surprise'' and volatile, as it is recalculated every year. That can easily be resolved by calculating the tax rate every 10 years, based on the information of the previous 10 years. Thus, the tax rate would be predictable for business planning purposes, and the year-to-year volatility would be avoided.
ENRIQUE DELAMONICA New York, Dec. 19, 2011
The writer is an economist.
To the Editor:
Ian Ayres and Aaron S. Edlin do not present a valid argument as to why income inequality is bad. Their only example: that the rich may buy political power or favor. But isn't the real problem that such things are for sale in the first place? When power is for sale, there will always be buyers.
Also, their proposed solution assumes that the government knows how to spend their money better than they do. Since the uber-wealthy usually make their money by creating new things, starting businesses and lending to others, I find this hard to believe.
Rich people tend to spend their money quite wisely. Uncle Sam, not so much.
CHRIS JOHNSON Clearwater, Fla., Dec. 20, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY WALTER GREEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); COUPS (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (54%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%); MELINDA GATES (50%); OPRAH WINFREY (50%); JEFFREY P BEZOS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1057 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA DECODER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Afghanistan Low on News Agenda

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
The 10-year-old war in Afghanistan remained just a blip on the American news media's radar in 2011.
Of all the news content in newspapers and on the Web, television and radio this year, Afghanistan accounted for about 2 percent of coverage, according to the Project for Excellence in Journalism, an arm of the Pew Research Center. 
Six other subjects were given more sustained attention than the war there. In descending order, they were the economy in the United States; the unrest in the Middle East; the 2012 presidential election; the earthquake, tsunami and ensuing nuclear disaster in Japan; the killing of Osama bin Laden; and the shooting in Tucson in which six were killed and Representative Gabrielle Giffords, Democrat of Arizona, was critically injured.
The figures come from the project's weekly monitoring of 52 major papers, news Web sites, TV networks and stations, and radio stations. The project uses that sample to show what is atop the national news agenda, and what is not.
In a year-end report last week, the project's researchers noted that ''despite a drop in coverage of the war in Afghanistan,'' there was an increase in international news over all, owing largely to the war in Libya and the protests in Egypt, Tunisia and other countries. The United States' withdrawal from Iraq accounted for less than 1 percent of all news coverage.
Since Pew started its weekly monitoring in 2007, the war in Afghanistan has never accounted for more than 5 percent of all news coverage on an annual basis. In 2010, Afghanistan accounted for 4 percent of all news coverage.
The United States has about 91,000 troops in Afghanistan now. For much of this year and last, about 100,000 United States troops were in the country.
The news executives that pay for bureaus in Afghanistan have had to contend with tight news-gathering budgets, safety concerns and, in some cases, a perception that American audiences are not interested in the situation.
The relative dearth of coverage has brought occasional criticism in the United States, particularly from those who recall vigorous coverage of the Vietnam War. ''Other than in its early stages in 2001-2002, the American press has greatly underreported this war,'' John Hanrahan, formerly the executive director of the Fund for Investigative Journalism, wrote in an essay for Nieman Watchdog in August.
''This paucity of reporting - the almost total reliance on just a few reporters - has stark implications for how the war is perceived back home,'' Mr. Hanrahan wrote. ''The fewer the reporters, the fewer the first-hand accounts needed for citizens to form knowledgeable opinions of the war.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lara Logan interviewing Capt. John Hintz in Afghanistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CBS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); INTERNET VIDEO (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); TSUNAMIS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); ARMED FORCES (63%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

PERSON: GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (54%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); TUNISIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); JAPAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EGYPT (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1058 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: Smoke-Free Housing

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Increasingly, Smoking Indoors Is Forbidden at Public Housing'' (news article, Dec. 18): 
Across the country, smoke-free housing has become a natural next step to improving health in cities and rural communities. New York City, accustomed to being a leader, is not at the forefront of this initiative to protect our friends, families and neighbors from secondhand smoke.
But many private buildings have made the choice to go smoke-free because they understand that doing so will protect the health of residents, provide economic benefit, reduce the amount of apartment fires, and because smoking is still the No. 1 cause of preventable death.
Secondhand smoke in apartment buildings is never isolated; it seeps through cracks in walls, ventilation and settles in paint, furnishings and upholstery. For those who suffer from asthma, this is even more acute.
We hope that landlords will take heed from these success stories and make the choice to go smoke-free.
SHEELAH A. FEINBERG Executive Director, New York City Coalition for a Smoke-Free City New York, Dec. 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ASTHMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1059 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Chamber a Victim Of Security Breach

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

 BODY:
The United States Chamber of Commerce has confirmed Chinese hackers last year broke into internal networks.
The breach is, in some ways, a twist of fate for the Chamber. It has been one of the more vocal critics of cybersecurity legislation. In an internal draft document circulated earlier this year, the Chamber criticized the White House's legislative proposals on cybersecurity as ''regulatory overreach'' and cautioned that ''layering new regulations on critical infrastructure will harm public-private partnerships.'' 
''This happens all the time,'' says Tom Kellermann, chief technology officer at AirPatrol Corp. and a member of President Barack Obama's commission on cyber security. ''This is essentially the modus operandi of China's economic espionage campaign. Hackers use a trade group as a beachhead to compromise the constituency. What intellectual property does the Chamber have? They don't. But they're trusted.''
The Federal Bureau of Investigation was the first to alert the business lobbying group that servers in China were accessing the Chamber's internal network early last year. A subsequent internal investigation found the hackers had zeroed in on four of the lobbying group's Asia policy experts and that at least six week's worth of e-mails had been pilfered. The Chamber shut down the operation in May 2010.
J.P. Fielder, a Chamber spokesman, emphasized that the breach was ''limited in scope'' to the four employees, though an earlier report in the Wall Street Journal suggested that the breach had been going on for over a year before it was discovered and that more than 300 Internet addresses may have been compromised. The F.B.I. did not return calls seeking comment.
The Chamber represents businesses and trade groups in Washington and the breach may affect its trusted relationship with its three million members, which include some of the nation's largest corporations.
''Businesses are already worried about the cyber theft of their internal trade secrets. Now they have to worry that the sensitive information they've shared with the Chamber is compromised,'' says Jacob Olcott, a principal with Good Harbor Consulting's cybersecurity team.
The Chamber says it has taken greater steps to secure itself in the wake of the breach. Mr. Fielder, the Chamber spokesman, said the Chamber had installed more sophisticated detection equipment and updated its policies which now include ''barring employees from taking portable devices with them to certain countries,'' including China.
Despite these measures, the Chamber still shows signs of infiltration. The Journal reported that the Chamber recently discovered a thermostat in a Chamber-owned apartment was communicating with an Internet address in China and that last March, one of its printers randomly started printing documents containing Chinese characters.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CYBERCRIME (90%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (90%); COMPUTER CRIME (90%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); LOBBYING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (76%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ESPIONAGE (69%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (68%); THERMAL SENSORS (60%); CLOSINGS (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (91%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1060 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: A Dispute Over Who Owns a Twitter Account Goes to Court

BYLINE: By JOHN BIGGS

 BODY:
How much is a tweet worth? And how much does a Twitter follower cost?
In base economic terms, the value of individual Twitter updates seems to be negligible; after all, what is a Twitter post but a few bits of data sent caroming through the Internet? But in a world where social media's influence can mean the difference between a lucrative sale and another fruitless cold call, social media accounts at companies have taken on added significance.
The question is: Can a company cash in on, and claim ownership of, an employee's social media account, and if so, what does that mean for workers who are increasingly posting to Twitter, Facebook and Google Plus during work hours? 
A lawsuit filed in July could provide some answers.
In October 2010, Noah Kravitz, a writer who lives in Oakland, Calif., quit his job at a popular mobile phone site, Phonedog.com, after nearly four years. The site has two parts -- an e-commerce wing, which sells phones, and a blog.
While at the company, Mr. Kravitz, 38, began writing on Twitter under the name Phonedog--Noah, and over time, had amassed 17,000 followers. When he left, he said, PhoneDog told him he could keep his Twitter account in exchange for posting occasionally.
The company asked him to ''tweet on their behalf from time to time and I said sure, as we were parting on good terms,'' Mr. Kravitz said by telephone.
And so he began writing as NoahKravitz, keeping all his followers under that new handle. But eight months after Mr. Kravitz left the company, PhoneDog sued, saying the Twitter list was a customer list, and seeking damages of $2.50 a month per follower for eight months, for a total of $340,000.
PhoneDog Media declined to comment for this article except for this statement: ''The costs and resources invested by PhoneDog Media into growing its followers, fans and general brand awareness through social media are substantial and are considered property of PhoneDog Media L.L.C. We intend to aggressively protect our customer lists and confidential information, intellectual property, trademark and brands.''
Mr. Kravitz said the lawsuit, filed in the United States District Court in the Northern District of California, was in retaliation for his claim to 15 percent of the site's gross advertising revenue because of his position as a vested partner, as well as back pay related to his position as a video reviewer and blogger for the site.
The lawsuit, though, could have broader ramifications than its effect on Mr. Kravitz and the company.
''This will establish precedent in the online world, as it relates to ownership of social media accounts,'' said Henry J. Cittone, a lawyer in New York who litigates intellectual property disputes. ''We've actually been waiting to see such a case as many of our clients are concerned about the ownership of social media accounts vis-a-vis their branding.''
Mr. Cittone added that a particularly important wrinkle is what value the court might set on the worth of one Twitter follower to a media company, saying the price set could affect future cases involving ownership of social media.
''It all hinges on why the account was opened,'' he said.
''If it was to communicate with PhoneDog's customers or build up new customers or prospects, then the account was opened on behalf of PhoneDog, not Mr. Kravitz. An added complexity is that PhoneDog contends Mr. Kravitz was just a contractor in the related partnership/employment case, thus weakening their trade secrets case, unless they can show he was contracted to create the feed.''
These situations are likely to arise more often as social media tools like Twitter, Google Plus and Facebook continue to become a way for company representatives and customer service employees to interact with fans and irate customers.
JetBlue, for example, often answers customer queries via Twitter, although its official policy is to not respond to ''formal complaints'' on Twitter.
Other issues may arise when companies hire popular Twitter users partly because of their social media presence. For example, Samsung Electronics hired the outspoken blogger Philip Berne to review phones for the company internally.
Mr. Berne uses his personal Twitter account but often posts explicitly about Samsung products and his opinions on the phones he has tested. He cleared his Twitter account with the Samsung public relations department, he said, and he owns it.
''Their stance was that I am entitled to have and express an opinion, but I am not a Samsung representative, and I should make it clear that any opinions are my own and not those of my employer,'' Mr. Berne said. In general, social media experts advise companies to tread with caution when it comes to account ownership.
Sree Sreenivasan, a professor at the Columbia Journalism School and the author of Sree's Social Media Guide, said smart companies let social media blossom where it may.
''It's a terrible thing to say you have to leave your Twitter followers behind,'' he said, talking specifically about media companies that may employ popular Twitter writers. ''It sends a terrible signal to reporters and journalists who care about this, and this will make it less attractive to recruit the next round of people.''
He said that many industries had policies that required sales staff to leave their Rolodexes behind, but that these policies were as relevant to social media as Rolodexes are to the modern office. After all, social media accounts are, almost by definition, personal.
He also said that the average Twitter account had less clout than many might think.
''The value of the individual users is very hard to quantify,'' he said. ''It's dangerous to overestimate the value of an account to an organization and underestimate what it means for an individual.''
Mr. Kravitz said he was confused.
''They're suing me for over a quarter of a million dollars,'' he said. ''From where I'm sitting I held up my end of the bargain.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Noah Kravitz, a tech journalist in Oakland, Calif., is in a dispute with his former employer over a Twitter account. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); TRADEMARKS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (88%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (85%); BRAND EQUITY (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); DAMAGES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (72%); WRITERS (68%); BRANDING (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: TWITTER INC (92%); GOOGLE INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1061 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1 words

HEADLINE: A Year In The Air

 BODY:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WORLD economies sagged, but that didn't stop artists from reaching higher in 2011. For Maurizio Cattelan, that meant the top of the Guggenheim rotunda, where his life's work hangs from cables connected to an aluminum truss. Also suspended in the air this year has been the voice of the British singer and songwriter Adele, right, who sold out two New York City shows in May and placed her second album, ''21,'' atop the Billboard chart. After one of those shows Jon Pareles of The New York Times described her ''big, supple, emotive voice'' and praised the way she can ''seethe, sob, rasp, swoop, lilt and belt, in ways that draw more attention to the song than to the singer.'' Hugh Jackman, meanwhile, put down his Wolverine blades from ''X-Men'' to cut a path back to Broadway. More photographs from 2011 are on Pages 8 and 9 and at nytimes.com/arts. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1062 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: A Year of Disappointment At the Movie Box Office

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- With five days left in 2011, ticket sales in North America are running about $500 million behind last year -- despite higher prices -- prompting a round of soul searching by studios trying to determine what went wrong and how best to proceed.
Movies are a cyclical business and analysts say that 2010 benefited mightily from holdover sales for ''Avatar,'' which was released late in 2009 and became one of the most popular movies of all time. A decline of hundreds of millions of dollars is not catastrophic when weighed against the size of the industry. Over all, North American ticket revenue for 2011 is projected to be about $10.1 billion, according to Hollywood.com, which compiles box-office data.
That is only a 4.5 percent falloff from 2010. But studio executives are alarmed by the downturn nonetheless, in part because the real picture is worse than the raw revenue numbers suggest.
Revenue, for instance, has been propped up by a glut of 3-D films, which cost $3 to $5 more per ticket. Studios made 40 pictures in 3-D in the last 12 months, up from 24 last year, according to BoxOfficeMojo.com, a movie database. Theaters have also continued to increase prices for standard tickets; moviegoers now pay an average of $7.89 each, up 1 percent over last year. 
Attendance for 2011 is expected to drop 5.3 percent, to 1.27 billion, continuing a slide. Attendance declined 6 percent in 2010.
Hopes that a group of major releases would supercharge the Christmas box office fizzled over the weekend. Paramount's ''Mission: Impossible -- Ghost Protocol'' was a solid No. 1, taking in $26.5 million in its second weekend for a total of about $59 million. But ''Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows'' (Warner Brothers) was a softer-than-expected second, with $17.8 million in ticket sales, lifting its two-week total to $76.6 million.
''Alvin and the Chipmunks: Chipwrecked'' (20th Century Fox) continued to struggle in third place, taking in about $13.3 million for a two-week total of $50.3 million. Three heavily promoted new entries had tepid results. ''The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo'' (Sony), was fourth, taking in $13 million for the weekend and $21.4 million since opening last Wednesday. Steven Spielberg's ''Adventures of Tintin'' (Paramount) was fifth with about $9.1 million ($22.3 million since opening last Wednesday). Fox's ''We Bought a Zoo'' came in sixth, taking in a lackluster $7.8 million in its opening weekend.
What has gone wrong? Plenty, say studio distribution executives, who point to competition for leisure dollars, particularly among financially pressed young people (the movie industry's most coveted demographic); too many family movies; and the continued erosion of star power.
One more thing: ''You have to go back and look at the content,'' said Dan Fellman, president of domestic distribution for Warner Brothers. ''Good movies always rise to the occasion. Bad ones, not so much.''
Young people, defined by studios as teenagers and people in their 20s, certainly helped power some of the biggest movies of 2011, including Warner's ''Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2,'' the year's No. 1 release with $381 million in domestic ticket sales. (Paramount's ''Transformers: Dark of the Moon'' was second with more than $352 million, and ''The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn -- Part 1'' from Summit Entertainment was third with more than $269 million.)
But a spate of smaller movies aimed at younger audiences bombed, including ''Prom'' from Walt Disney, ''Glee: The 3-D Concert Movie'' from 20th Century Fox, Warner's ''Sucker Punch,'' Lionsgate's ''Conan the Barbarian'' and ''Your Highness,'' a drug-oriented comedy from Universal. The horror genre struggled as an entire category, with lemons like ''Fright Night'' (DreamWorks Studios), ''The Thing'' (Universal) and ''Priest'' (Sony).
''As bad as the economy is for adults, it's worse for teenagers,'' said Phil Contrino, editor of BoxOffice.com, by way of an explanation. ''Because they have less disposable income and because they are more plugged in to audience reaction on Facebook and Twitter, the teenage audience is becoming picky,'' he added. ''That's a nightmare for studios that are used to pushing lowest-common-denominator films.''
Mr. Fellman said he had seen evidence that younger consumers were choosing other leisure activities over movies.
''There may be a correlation to the recent strength of video game sales,'' he said. ''You look at a game like the new 'Call of Duty' selling $400 million in its first 24 hours and say, 'What? How is that even possible?' ''
On the other hand, several movies aimed squarely at older audiences attracted stronger-than-expected revenue, ''The Help'' was the prime example. That period drama cost DreamWorks about $25 million to make and took in more than $169 million in North America. ''We definitely benefited from coming out at the end of summer, when women are sick of going with their husbands and boyfriends to nothing but robot and superhero movies,'' said Brunson Green, a producer of the film.
The R-rated ''Bridesmaids'' (Universal) also clicked with older moviegoers, who perhaps responded, distribution executives said, to a premise that seemed fresh: women behaving as badly as the guys of ''The Hangover Part II'' (Warner), which was a smash with $255 million. ''Bridesmaids'' cost about $33 million and took in $169 million, causing a race in Hollywood to develop copycat films.
Too much of anything, however, can produce a hangover and studios started to feel one with family films, which have been among the most reliable moneymakers in recent years.
Some new entries delivered solid results, ''Rio'' from Fox, ''The Smurfs'' from Sony, but a number of them stumbled in North America. Those include Sony's ''Arthur Christmas,'' DreamWorks Animation's ''Kung Fu Panda 2'' and Disney's ''Mars Needs Moms,'' which was by some measures the biggest flop of 2011, costing at least $150 million and taking in about $21 million.
Even Pixar had trouble. The Disney-owned animation studio had a hit in ''Cars 2,'' with more than $191 million in domestic ticket sales, but that total was Pixar's worst single result, after adjusting for inflation.
Star power, or a lack thereof, was again a negative factor at the box office in 2011. There were bright spots, of course: Tom Cruise appears to be regaining momentum with the latest ''Mission: Impossible'' film; Johnny Depp charmed audiences once more with ''The Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides,'' which took in $241 million for Disney (and exceeded $1 billion globally); Cameron Diaz earned her keep in ''Bad Teacher,'' which took in more than $100 million for Sony.
But it was wreckage for most marquee names: Harrison Ford and Daniel Craig disappointed in the DreamWorks and Universal release ''Cowboys & Aliens;'' Eddie Murphy and Ben Stiller landed with a thud in ''Tower Heist,'' a Universal film; Julia Roberts and Tom Hanks bombed in the independently financed ''Larry Crowne.'' ''New Year's Eve,'' essentially a string of star cameos, has been essentially ignored.
More troubling, studio executives say, were failed efforts by some younger stars to become bigger box-office draws. Ryan Reynolds never took off as ''Green Lantern'' and Jonah Hill, praised for a supporting role in ''Moneyball,'' flopped as the main attraction in ''The Sitter.'' Russell Brand missed in a remake of ''Arthur,'' as did Taylor Lautner in ''Abduction.'' Amanda Seyfried struggled in ''Red Riding Hood.''
Two exceptions were Chris Hemsworth as ''Thor'' and Chris Evans as ''Captain America: The First Avenger.'' Both of those newcomers, helped by their superhero tights, found substantial audiences.
The good news for Hollywood is that the first quarter of 2012 looks much stronger than the same period this year, when studios had little to generate audience excitement.
Warner has two sequels -- ''Journey 2: The Mysterious Island'' and ''Wrath of the Titans,'' while Sony has a prominent remake in ''21 Jump Street.'' Disney will re-release ''Beauty and the Beast'' in 3-D, followed by Fox's 3-D re-release of ''Star Wars: Episode I -- The Phantom Menace.'' And Lionsgate will weigh in with its highly anticipated ''The Hunger Games.''
''It's an extremely strong hand for the industry to play,'' Mr. Fellman said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2,'' above, was the top film of 2011. ''Kung Fu Panda 2,'' left, fell short of expectations. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAAP BUITENDIJK/WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES
DREAMWORKS ANIMATION/PARAMOUNT PICTURES)
''Bridesmaids,'' left, attracted older audiences. Johnny Depp drew crowds to ''The Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE HANOVER/UNIVERSAL PICTURES
 PETER MOUNTAIN/WALT DISNEY PICTURES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); TICKET SALES (91%); MOVIE REVENUES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%)

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (57%); JOHNNY DEPP (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1063 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: A Village In Revolt Could Be A Harbinger

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES; Mia Li contributed research from Beijing, and Shi Da from Wukan.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- China's state-run media have had a field day this autumn with Occupy Wall Street, spinning an almost daily morality play about capitalism gone amok and an American government unable or unwilling to aid the victims of a rapacious elite.
Occupy Wukan is another matter entirely. The state press has been all but mute on why 13,000 Chinese citizens, furious over repeated rip-offs by their village elite, sent their leaders fleeing to safety and repulsed efforts by the police to retake Wukan. But the village takeover can be ignored only at Beijing's peril: There are at least 625,000 potential Wukans across China, all small, locally run villages that frequently suffer the sorts of injustices that prompted the outburst this month in Wukan.
''What happened in Wukan is nothing new. It's all across the country,'' said Liu Yawei, an expert on local administration who is the director of the China program at the Carter Center in Atlanta.
A second analyst, Li Fan, estimated, in an interview, that 50 percent to 60 percent of Chinese villages suffered governance and accountability problems of the sort that apparently beset Wukan, albeit not so severe. Mr. Li leads the World and China Institute, a private nonprofit research center based in Beijing that has extensively studied local election and governance issues. 
On paper, the Wukan protests never should have happened: China's village committees should be the most responsive bodies in the nation because they are elected by the villagers themselves. Moreover, the government has built safeguards into the village administration process to ensure that money is properly spent.
Village self-administration, as the central government calls it, is seen by many foreigners as China's democratic laboratory -- and while elections can be rigged and otherwise swayed, many political scientists say they are, on balance, a good development.
Actually running the villages, however, is another matter. Village committees must provide many of the services offered by governments, such as sanitation and social welfare, but they cannot tax their residents or collect many fees. Any efforts to raise additional money, for things like economic development, usually need approval from the Communist Party-controlled township or county seats above them.
In practice, the combination of the villages' need for cash and their dependence on higher-ups has bred back-scratching and corruption between village officials and their overseers. China's boom in land prices has only broadened the opportunity for siphoning off money from village accounts.
And the checks and balances -- a village legislature to sign off on major decisions, a citizens' accounting committee to watch over the village books -- have turned out to be easily manipulated by those who really hold the power.
''Land sales are where the big money is,'' Edward Friedman, a political science professor and a China scholar at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, said in a telephone interview. ''Every level can see how much better the level above it is doing. And each one wants to live at least that well. The system has within it a dynamic which makes people feel it's only fair that they get their share of the wealth.''
The opportunities to get that share are vast, apparently. In 2003, a candidate for village committee chairman in Laojiaotou village, in Shanxi Province, spent two million renminbi -- then about $245,000 -- to campaign for an office that paid 347 renminbi a month, the Chinese journal Legal News reported at the time.
In interviews this month, leaders of the Wukan protest said it was common knowledge that local government and Communist Party officials had spent millions of renminbi to buy potentially lucrative posts. They maintained that Wukan's village committee stayed in power in part by threatening any challenges to its continued rule.
None of those allegations could be quickly confirmed. One verified statistic, however, is compelling. Of the nine members of Wukan's village committee, five had held their posts since the committee system itself was set up under Mao Zedong's successor, Deng Xiaoping.
The same was true of the village's Communist Party secretary, Xue Chang, who had held office since 1970 before being replaced amid Wukan citizen protests in September.
Though a village in legal terms, Wukan is bigger than most such entities. It sits in urban Guangdong Province, abutting a natural harbor on the Pacific Ocean that is ideal for development.
Many details of the practices that incited Wukan's protests are murky. Even before the residents chased their village committee leaders from town on Dec. 11, the village committee's accounting ledger had been taken away, ostensibly for an audit.
Leaders of the protest contend, however, that the village committee sold off or granted long-term leases to nearly 60 percent of the village's 11 square miles over an 18-year period beginning in 1993. The sales were said to include roughly four-fifths of the village's 1.5 square miles of farmland and much of its forests.
Just how the land was sold remains unclear. Under Chinese law, such sales are supposed to require approval of the villagers, who collectively own the land and are supposed to share in the proceeds. But the approval process is vague; in practice, most decisions are left to the elected village committee or an appointed village legislature that acts on behalf of the residents.
The sales also required approval by Donghai township, the level of government just above Wukan. In some cases, officials in Lufeng, the county seat whose territory includes Wukan, were also involved in setting up sales.
The land went to hotels, homes, factories, power companies and even private funerary temples. One wealthy villager, Chen Wenqing, gained a business interest in Wukan's harbor and a 50-year lease on a large tract of land used as a pig farm.
A plan this year to sell Mr. Chen's farm and an equal amount of villagers' farmland to developers of a luxury housing and retail project was the final straw, though, mobilizing villagers to protest. Beyond seeking a public accounting of that project and others like it, angry residents called for democratic elections to replace village officials, many of whom have been in power for decades.
Villagers say they have no idea where the proceeds from any of the sales or rentals went. ''From 1993 onward, not one time were we told,'' said Lin Zuluan, a protest leader. ''No voting, no compensation, nothing. We didn't even know what was going on.''
Mr. Lin said that most residents, unfamiliar with the workings of a village system, had no idea of their rights. That seems plausible; one recent academic study concluded that three in four residents of villages that had been surveyed had no information about village finances.
In Wukan, villagers did sense that something was wrong, and had complained vigorously -- between July 2009 and last March, seven times to Guangdong Province officials and five times to officials of Lufeng, the county seat. But none of those complaints appear to have been addressed.
It took a de facto revolt by Wukan's residents to force Guangdong Province officials to step into the crisis, calling the villagers' grievances legitimate and promising to address them. Wukan's village committee chief and its party secretary are under investigation, a move that probably will end in stiff punishment.
The state-run press has hailed the Guangdong response as a model of government responsiveness and a template for handling public grievances in the future.
Yet some observers of Chinese governance are less sanguine. In their view, Wukan's uprising highlighted systemic defects in China's local governments, and only a housecleaning -- not an isolated slap on the wrist -- will address them.
The trouble, they say, is that almost nobody benefits from a housecleaning -- not village leaders or township and county officials enriched by land sales and other corrupt deals. And not higher officials whose influence is only diminished if they get rid of lower-level supplicants.
''What will change things is if you change the incentives by which make you make your money,'' said Mr. Friedman, of the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Allowing peasants to own and sell their land -- and not a village committee -- would suggest a serious effort to break the corruption cycle, he said. So would breaking up the cozy network of village and local government officials who stand to benefit from land sales.
For the moment, at least, those sorts of reforms do not appear to be in the cards. ''The vested interests in the present system are very strong,'' he said. ''And I don't think there's a Deng in the office who has enough clout to change things.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A rally in Wukan this month. Analysts say the abuses that led to the residents' uprising are not unusual, but quite common across China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER PARKS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) MAPS: Wukan abuts a natural harbor that is ideal for development. (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); POLITICS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (65%); CORRUPTION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: CARTER CENTER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1064 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Springtime For Toxics

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Here's what I wanted for Christmas: something that would make us both healthier and richer. And since I was just making a wish, why not ask that Americans get smarter, too?
Surprise: I got my wish, in the form of new Environmental Protection Agency standards on mercury and air toxics for power plants. These rules are long overdue: we were supposed to start regulating mercury more than 20 years ago. But the rules are finally here, and will deliver huge benefits at only modest cost.
So, naturally, Republicans are furious. But before I get to the politics, let's talk about what a good thing the E.P.A. just did. 
As far as I can tell, even opponents of environmental regulation admit that mercury is nasty stuff. It's a potent neurotoxicant: the expression ''mad as a hatter'' emerged in the 19th century because hat makers of the time treated fur with mercury compounds, and often suffered nerve and mental damage as a result.
Hat makers no longer use mercury (and who wears hats these days?), but a lot of mercury gets into the atmosphere from old coal-burning power plants that lack modern pollution controls. From there it gets into the water, where microbes turn it into methylmercury, which builds up in fish. And what happens then? The E.P.A. explains: ''Methylmercury exposure is a particular concern for women of childbearing age, unborn babies and young children, because studies have linked high levels of methylmercury to damage to the developing nervous system, which can impair children's ability to think and learn.''
That sort of sounds like something we should regulate, doesn't it?
The new rules would also have the effect of reducing fine particle pollution, which is a known source of many health problems, from asthma to heart attacks. In fact, the benefits of reduced fine particle pollution account for most of the quantifiable gains from the new rules. The key word here is ''quantifiable'': E.P.A.'s cost-benefit analysis only considers one benefit of mercury regulation, the reduced loss in future wages for children whose I.Q.'s are damaged by eating fish caught by freshwater anglers. There are without doubt many other benefits to cutting mercury emissions, but at this point the agency doesn't know how to put a dollar figure on those benefits.
Even so, the payoff to the new rules is huge: up to $90 billion a year in benefits compared with around $10 billion a year of costs in the form of slightly higher electricity prices. This is, as David Roberts of Grist says, a very big deal.
And it's a deal Republicans very much want to kill.
With everything else that has been going on in U.S. politics recently, the G.O.P.'s radical anti-environmental turn hasn't gotten the attention it deserves. But something remarkable has happened on this front. Only a few years ago, it seemed possible to be both a Republican in good standing and a serious environmentalist; during the 2008 campaign John McCain warned of the dangers of global warming and proposed a cap-and-trade system for carbon emissions. Today, however, the party line is that we must not only avoid any new environmental regulations but roll back the protection we already have.
And I'm not exaggerating: during the fight over the debt ceiling, Republicans tried to attach riders that, as Time magazine put it, would essentially have blocked the E.P.A. and the Interior Department from doing their jobs.
Oh, by the way, you may have heard reports to the effect that Jon Huntsman is different. And he did indeed once say: ''Conservation is conservative. I'm not ashamed to be a conservationist.'' Never mind: he, too, has been assimilated by the anti-environmental Borg, denouncing the E.P.A.'s ''regulatory reign of terror,'' and predicting that the new rules will cause blackouts by next summer, which would be a neat trick considering that the rules won't even have taken effect yet.
More generally, whenever you hear dire predictions about the effects of pollution regulation, you should know that special interests always make such predictions, and are always wrong. For example, power companies claimed that rules on acid rain would disrupt electricity supply and lead to soaring rates; none of that happened, and the acid rain program has become a shining example of how environmentalism and economic growth can go hand in hand.
But again, never mind: mindless opposition to ''job killing'' regulations is now part of what it means to be a Republican. And I have to admit that this puts something of a damper on my mood: the E.P.A. has just done a very good thing, but if a Republican -- any Republican -- wins next year's election, he or she will surely try to undo this good work.
Still, for now at least, those who care about the health of their fellow citizens, and especially of the nation's children, have something to celebrate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAT CAP & MILLINERY MFG (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); PARTICULATE MATTER (89%); AIR POLLUTION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); EMISSIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); AIR POLLUTANTS (77%); POWER PLANTS (76%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); POLITICS (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); ASTHMA (72%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (71%); SPORT FISHING (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1065 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Still Standing in Missouri, A Love Letter in Ruins

BYLINE: By A. G. SULZBERGER

 BODY:
JOPLIN, Mo. -- As this rebuilding city races to finish clearing the rubble from the deadly tornado last spring, one irreparably broken structure has been allowed, for now at least, to remain.
The building, a modest red brick house, has no roof. All but one of its exterior walls are missing, splintered and scattered by the storm, leaving an impression of a giant dollhouse. A Christmas tree, dressed in ornaments, has been placed in a tidy living room arrangement of two couches and a coffee table.
The reason this house has so far survived the wrecking ball can be found scribbled on its walls, on its floorboards, in its closets and along virtually every other remaining surface. They are personal messages, thousands of them, handwritten by the volunteers who flooded the community to help sift through and cart out the debris. Every day visitors and locals alike stop to add a note to the collection. 
Every disaster has its memorials, from the organic to the carefully orchestrated. Several monuments have emerged here as the city labors to clear the remaining rubble of the tornado that cut through the heart of the community on May 22, killing 161 people. But as that effort nears completion, the community is questioning what to do with a memorial that is itself rubble.
City leaders have been discussing whether to move the whole structure or perhaps simply take parts of the building for public display. ''We think there is some value to preserving it,'' said Mark Rohr, the city manager. ''But we can't let it sit there forever.''
In the meantime, the walls of the building, known here as the volunteer house, are peeling under the assault of sun and rain and wind. Like a love letter slowly torn to pieces, the peeling paint is littering the floorboards with snippets of messages, often just a few letters, a name or a word, like ''home,'' ''rebuild'' and ''alone.'' In the newly barren patches, more messages are being scrawled.
The serendipity of the monument stands in sharp contrast with the deliberate stone and steel structures put up in nearby Cunningham Park. The first structure is a three-tiered fountain with 5, 22 and 11 streams of water on the different levels to symbolize the date of the storm. The second is an enormous metal replica of the rubber wristbands handed out to volunteers, emblazoned with the message ''The Miracle of the Human Spirit.'' A third one honoring relief workers is planned.
These are the official memorials, the ones visited this month by a collection of men in suits who had gathered for the announcement that a company had donated $25,000 to the park. At the end of that ceremony, a man dressed as Santa emerged to present the assembled politicians, including the governor, with a giant check and to pose for photos. ''Ho, ho, ho, merry Christmas, everyone,'' he said, ''And thank you, Coca-Cola.''
Throughout Joplin, it is hard to miss the signs and sounds of progress. New houses and businesses have emerged on the flattened landscape. Plans to replace the destroyed high school and hospital are moving forward. And though many are still struggling, the feared exodus has not begun.
That progress, city leaders have said repeatedly, could not have happened without the assistance of volunteers. Nearly 115,000 volunteers, from every state, have registered with the city since the storm, and perhaps as many simply showed up and started helping.
This was what Tim Bartow, the owner of the house, was responding to when he wrote a message of thanks to the volunteers who lent their hands and backs to the hard, messy work of clearing the rubble. Mr. Bartow, who rode out the storm with his family in the basement, spray painted it in large letters on the side of the home: ''You are our heroes.''
Then he cleared space in the house for the storm-damaged furniture, which had been strewn over several blocks, so that volunteers would have a place to rest. After a while, the volunteers started writing messages of their own, offering love from Georgia and prayers from Texas. Now many make a point of stopping here before they leave the community.
Some just signed their names, but the more expansive recited Scripture or offered words of support. The sentiments expressed are hardly unusual, reminding that in moments of tragedy, people seek comfort in the worn truths underlying cliches.
''The human heart, even after this,'' reads one message written on the kitchen floor, each letter on a different tile, ''remains stronger than this very ground.''
The foundation of the house, in truth, is crumbling, Mr. Bartow said. But he has decided to leave the house up until city leaders decide on the question of preservation.
Patrick Tuttle, director of the Joplin Convention and Visitors Bureau, said the decision would be made soon because cleanup deadlines were looming. ''Whether we take part of it or all of it is the question,'' he said.
Then, whatever remains will be torn down so the property can be sold as an empty lot.
For now, though, the house stands, oddly resilient to the deconstructive power of the storm and the constructive power of the rebuilding city, speaking to a moment in between that will be harder to explain when it is gone.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thousands of volunteers in Joplin, Mo., have written messages, like the one on top, in the tornado-damaged house below. Above, one of the official memorials in Cunningham Park. More photographs are online at nytimes.com/national. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE HEBERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TORNADOES (90%); VOLUNTEERS (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CITIES (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (76%); CHRISTMAS (76%); CITY LIFE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1066 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Redraws Pakistani Ties With Limits

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- With the United States facing the reality that its broad security partnership with Pakistan is over, American officials are seeking to salvage a more limited counterterrorism alliance that they acknowledge will complicate their ability to launch attacks against extremists and move supplies into Afghanistan.
The United States will be forced to restrict drone strikes, limit the number of its spies and soldiers on the ground and spend more to transport supplies through Pakistan to allied troops in Afghanistan, American and Pakistani officials said. United States aid to Pakistan will also be reduced sharply, they said.
''We've closed the chapter on the post-9/11 period,'' said a senior United States official, who requested anonymity to avoid antagonizing Pakistani officials. ''Pakistan has told us very clearly that they are re-evaluating the entire relationship.''
American officials say that the relationship will endure in some form, but that the contours will not be clear until Pakistan completes its wide-ranging review in the coming weeks. 
The Obama administration got a taste of the new terms immediately after an American airstrike killed 26 Pakistani soldiers near the Afghan border last month. Pakistan closed the supply routes into Afghanistan, boycotted a conference in Germany on the future of Afghanistan and forced the United States to shut its drone operations at a base in southwestern Pakistan.
Mushahid Hussain Sayed, the secretary general of the Pakistan Muslim League-Q, an opposition political party, summed up the anger that he said many harbored: ''We feel like the U.S. treats Pakistan like a rainy-day girlfriend.''
Whatever emerges will be a shadow of the sweeping strategic relationship that Richard C. Holbrooke, President Obama's special envoy for Afghanistan and Pakistan, championed before his death a year ago. Officials from both countries filled more than a dozen committees to work on issues like health, the rule of law and economic development.
All of that has been abandoned and will most likely be replaced by a much narrower set of agreements on core priorities -- countering terrorists, stabilizing Afghanistan and ensuring the safety of Pakistan's arsenal of more than 100 nuclear weapons -- that Pakistan will want spelled out in writing and agreed to in advance.
With American diplomats essentially waiting quietly and Central Intelligence Agency drone strikes on hold since Nov. 16 -- the longest pause since 2008 -- Pakistan's government is drawing up what Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani called ''red lines'' for a new relationship that protects his country's sovereignty and territorial integrity.
Said an American official: ''Both countries recognize the benefits of partnering against common threats, but those must be balanced against national interests as well. The balancing is a continuous process.''
First, officials said, will likely be a series of step-by-step agreements on military cooperation, intelligence sharing and counterterrorism operations, including revamped ''kill boxes,'' the term for flight zones over Pakistan's largely ungoverned borderlands where C.I.A. drones will be allowed to hunt a shrinking number of Al Qaeda leaders and other militants.
The C.I.A. has conducted 64 missile attacks in Pakistan using drones this year, compared with 117 last year and 53 in 2009, according to The Long War Journal, a Web site that tracks the strikes.
In one of the most visible signs of rising anti-American sentiment in this country, tens of thousands of protesters took to the streets of Lahore and Peshawar this month. And on Sunday in Karachi, Pakistan's biggest city, at least 100,000 people rallied to support Imran Khan, a cricket celebrity and rising opposition politician who is outspoken in his criticism of the drone strikes and ties with the United States.
Some Pakistani officers talk openly about shooting down any American drones that violate Pakistani sovereignty. ''Nothing is happening on counterterrorism right now,'' said a senior Pakistani security official. ''It will never go back to the way it was.''
Any new security framework will also require increased transit fees for the thousands of trucks that supply NATO troops in Afghanistan, a bill that allied officials say could run into the tens of millions of dollars.
Officials from Pakistan and the United States anticipate steep reductions in American security aid, including the continued suspension of more than $1 billion in military assistance and equipment, frozen since the American raid that killed Osama bin Laden in Pakistan in May.
The number of American military officers, enlisted troops and contractors in Pakistan has dropped to about 100, from about 400 more than a year ago, including scores of American trainers who have all been sent home. Pakistan is also restricting visas to dozens of other embassy personnel, from spies to aid workers.
Of the nearly two dozen American, Western and Pakistani officials interviewed for this article, a few sought to put the best face on a worsening situation. With Pakistan taking a seat on the United Nations Security Council for two years beginning next month, these officials argued that too much was at stake to rupture ties completely. ''It is better to have a predictable, more focused relationship than an incredibly ambitious out-of-control relationship,'' said one Western official.
But another Western diplomat put it more bluntly: ''It's a fairly gloomy picture.''
Just two months ago, a visit here by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton; David H. Petraeus, the C.I.A. director; and Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, seemed to begin to thaw relations that had been nearly frozen since Raymond Davis, a C.I.A. security contractor, shot and killed two Pakistanis in Lahore in January and Navy Seals killed Bin Laden in May.
Pakistani manufacturers of ammonium nitrate fertilizer, a component of homemade bombs used against American soldiers in Afghanistan, tentatively agreed to dye it for easier tracing, American officials said. Interior Ministry officials pledged to track large, unexplained purchases of the substance.
At the same time, Pakistani officials indicated that they would help rein in attacks by the Haqqani network, an insurgent group that is the main killer of allied troops in Afghanistan, and there were hints that Pakistan would pave the way for peace talks with the Taliban in Afghanistan.
But the fatal airstrike on Nov. 26 erased that preliminary progress, dealing the most serious blow to reconciliation talks involving Pakistan. ''It's not happening,'' said Aftab Ahmed Sherpao, a former interior minister.
All of this comes as the Pakistani economy is in a free fall, civilian and military leaders are clashing over purported coup plots, and 150,000 Pakistani troops are stuck in a stalemate fighting a witches' brew of militants along the Afghan border.
''These people are stuck there very badly,'' said Javed Ashraf Qazi, a retired lieutenant general and a former head of the Inter-Services Intelligence directorate, Pakistan's main spy agency.
The number of attacks from homemade bombs throughout the country, but mostly focused in the border areas, skyrocketed to 1,036 through November this year, compared with 413 for all of 2007, according to the Pakistani military. More than 3,500 Pakistani soldiers and police have been killed since 2002.
The Obama administration is desperately trying to preserve the critical pieces of the relationship. General Dempsey asked the Pakistani Army chief, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, in a phone call on Wednesday if the relationship could be repaired, a person briefed on the conversation said. General Kayani said that he thought it could, but that Pakistan needed some space.
The State Department this month quietly dispatched a senior diplomat and South Asia specialist, Robin Raphel, to canvass a wide spectrum of Pakistanis. She returned with a sober assessment and the view that many Pakistanis will not move forward without a formal apology from President Obama for the airstrike, which White House aides say is not in the offing.
Still, administration officials held out hope. ''We've been very forthright in acknowledging that this is a relationship that needs to work,'' a State Department spokesman, Mark Toner, said on Friday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At least 100,000 people rallied in Karachi on Sunday to show support for the opposition leader Imran Khan, a former cricket star. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AKHTAR SOOMRO/REUTERS) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); ESPIONAGE (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); BOYCOTTS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%)

PERSON: RICHARD HOLBROOKE (58%); YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (58%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1067 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: In Beck's Shadow, Rise of 'The Five'

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
When Fox News and Glenn Beck broke up in June, the network's chairman, Roger Ailes, knew he could not put any single man or woman in that 5 p.m. time slot, lest he or she be compared to Mr. Beck or be pummeled in the press if the ratings tumbled.
So, about a week and a half before Mr. Beck signed off, Mr. Ailes wrote the words ''The Five'' on a piece of paper. Looking to the ABC talk show ''The View'' and to the time of day as inspiration, he pictured five co-hosts who could argue about the day's top stories without feeling antipathy for one another. When announced on June 30, Mr. Beck's last day, ''The Five'' seemed to be a temporary fix -- even to the co-hosts, who were initially told they were just trying out for a weekend show.
But the show has stuck and has become a permanent part of the network's lineup. The show's ratings, though generally not as high as Mr. Beck's, are growing. And most important, the advertisers that had shunned Mr. Beck are coming back to the time slot. 
Of Mr. Beck, Roger Domal, the vice president for eastern ad sales at Fox News, said, ''I think that his ratings provided us, unfortunately, with empty calories.'' In mid-2009, groups lobbied advertisers to boycott Mr. Beck's broadcast after he called President Obama a racist, making the show ''basically something that we could not monetize,'' Mr. Domal said.
Now, on ''The Five,'' he said, ''there are no issues at all; the program has a full complement of ads.''
The surprise success of ''The Five'' gives Fox News, a unit of News Corporation, a stable schedule in a presidential election season that has played out largely on its own airwaves. Fox remains the country's most-watched cable news channel by far, with more than a million viewers at any given time, though it is down about 4 percent this year from its audience levels last year.
''The Five'' is shown at a crucial time -- 5 p.m. Eastern -- that acts as a transition between daytime and prime time. Of the seven rotating hosts, the five regulars are Greg Gutfeld, who also helms the overnight show ''Red Eye''; Eric Bolling, who also has a show on the Fox Business Network; the former Bush administration spokeswoman Dana Perino; the conservative columnist Andrea Tantaros; and the Mondale campaign manager and Fox analyst Bob Beckel.
Two others, Juan Williams and Kimberly Guilfoyle, sometimes sub in.
''We genuinely get along inside and out,'' Mr. Gutfeld said in an interview last week. ''When it gets too heated, you can tell that we feel bad about it afterwards.''
Said Mr. Beckel in a separate interview, ''It's like seeing a family at Thanksgiving come home and argue about politics, but you know that everybody loves each other.''
When Mr. Beck joined Fox in January 2009, he more than doubled the 5 p.m. time slot's ratings, sometimes drawing as many as three million viewers. But love didn't exactly radiate from the time slot. He spurred controversy -- with the ''racist'' remark and many others -- and eventually fell out of favor with Fox, so it came as no surprise when the two sides mutually agreed to split up. Mr. Beck is now hosting a daily show on GBTV, an Internet channel that costs $5 to $10 a month.
In his final month on Fox, Mr. Beck had an average of 1.6 million viewers; the following month, ''The Five'' had fewer than 1.3 million.
It has steadily gained audience share since then, and in mid-September Mr. Ailes made the show permanent. So far this month it had 1.6 million daily viewers, matching Mr. Beck's final numbers for the first time.
''Not having a host, just in and of itself, is a departure for cable news,'' said Mr. Beckel, who commutes to New York weekly from Washington to be on the show. Viewers, he said, ''are looking all day long at cable news and they're seeing guest, host, guest, host -- and this is a departure from that.''
Conservative opinions and themes are front and center on the show, as they are on virtually all of Fox's opinion programs. Blogs took notice this month when Mr. Bolling asked, halfway into the show, ''Guys, why are we doing our third segment on, like, beating up Newt Gingrich or trashing Donald Trump? Where's the segment on Obama's socialist economy, isn't working? Where's the section on guns or unions?''
''You're going through withdrawal,'' Mr. Beckel answered, adding that ''about every other segment on every other show is'' about Mr. Obama.
Mr. Beckel said in an interview, however, that he did not feel outmatched on the show, in part because ''a big chunk of the show is not about politics.''
Added Ms. Perino in a separate interview, ''We're very mindful about keeping the show fresh.''
Ms. Perino, who was commuting to New York like Mr. Beckel, recently decided to move to the city with her husband. She said she often gets stopped in public by viewers. ''Usually,'' she said, ''I get asked, 'Does Bob Beckel really believe those things he says?' ''
Brian Krason, a grant writer who lives outside Boston and who calls himself an ex-conservative, watches the show in part for that reason.
Mr. Beckel, Mr. Krason said, challenges and sometimes even changes his views.
''The appeal of the show for me is that it is truly balanced in its reporting,'' he said. ''Although it is really four conservatives and one liberal, Bob Beckel keeps the others in line and corrects the facts when needed.''
Production of ''The Five'' has been assigned to John Finley, the longtime producer of Sean Hannity's 9 p.m. talk show on the network, and there are some similarities between the two. On Mr. Hannity's show, there is a segment called the ''Great American Panel'' with three rotating guests.
''The Five'' and several lower-rated talk shows that started on MSNBC this year are representative of a continued shift on cable to talk about the news and away from actual news reports.
''People know what the news is,'' said Mr. Domal, the ad sales executive. ''You're not coming to cable news for news anymore. You're coming for either validation of your opinion or you're looking to find out what the other side is saying.''
It is, he said, analogous to the debates that break out on peoples' Facebook walls.
''It's almost like we're social media, live,'' he said. ''They're just talking to each other. They're just posting.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''The Five,'' a new talk show in Glenn Beck's old time slot. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Roger Ailes, chairman of Fox News, came up with the idea of ''The Five'' as a replacement in the 5 p.m. time slot departed by Glenn Beck, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY 2MK STUDIO/FOX NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 FOX NEWS CHANNEL) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); WRITERS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); CABLE TELEVISION (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (61%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (95%); NEWS CORP (64%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (64%); NWS (ASX) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (64%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (64%)

PERSON: GLENN BECK (94%); ROGER AILES (90%); RICK PERRY (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1068 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: Modernizing Attack Ads By Using Old Videos

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
It seemed innocuous enough at the time. The Democratic speaker of the House and one of her Republican predecessors cozy up on a love seat arranged for them at the bottom of Capitol Hill. They look into the camera, then at each other, and declare that they are really not all that different when it comes to caring about global warming.
What does Newt Gingrich think of his tender moment with Nancy Pelosi now? ''Probably the dumbest single thing I've done in recent years.''
He has good reason to fret. Scenes from that 2008 public service announcement appear in no fewer than four television advertisements now running in Iowa and can be found in numerous videos on the Web, all made by rival Republican presidential campaigns and outside political groups that are trying to sink Mr. Gingrich's candidacy. 
It is the attack-ad technique of choice for the 2012 election: anything you have said or done on film will be held against you. And its prevalence has helped make the Republican primary campaign a ferociously negative contest. Nowhere is that more obvious than in Iowa, where commercials that portray candidates in an unflattering light now account for two-thirds of the money spent on advertising for the caucuses.
It is a shift in emphasis from the days of using depressing montages of carnage abroad and social unrest, like the ads that helped Richard M. Nixon discredit Hubert H. Humphrey in 1968, or the reliance on selective recitations of Congressional votes that have twisted the positions of candidates running from a perch in Washington. It averts the need to shoot much, if any, new footage, and through the use of actual images and the words of the target -- sometimes misleading, sometimes not -- the negative message can be made to appear more credible than mere assertions.
''We don't need to embellish with a nasty announcer,'' said Steve Grand, a Republican media strategist who has helped American Crossroads, a political group backed by Karl Rove, create some of the commercials. ''It's not somebody else saying, 'This person did something.' There they are. See it with your own eyes, hear it with your own ears. And I think it feels more documentary than propaganda.''
Turning the candidates' own words against them is, of course, one of the older tricks in the political playbook. But today more than ever, when a candidate's every kaffeeklatsch, rope-line handshake and editorial board interview is captured on camera, there is a wealth of material. With news outlets like C-Span digitizing their video archives and making them available online, old footage is easy to come by. Anyone with an Internet connection and the patience to conduct a lengthy Google search can be an opposition researcher. And the willingness of some campaigns not only to employ old film but to rip it out of context seems to be greater than ever.
According to the Kantar Media Campaign Media Analysis Group, Iowans have been subjected to commercials about candidates 17,151 times this year. Of those, 10,591 were negative. In dollar terms, the overwhelmingly negative tone of the advertising war is just as glaring: $3.3 million spent on negative ads versus $1.7 spent on positive ones.
The negativity reflects both the wide-open nature of the race and the advent of the ''super PAC.'' Those outside groups operate without coordinating with the campaigns and have taken on much of the dirty work of tearing down opponents.
Over the past week, Mr. Gingrich has borne the brunt of the attacks, and his support among likely Republican voters showed signs of eroding as a result.
Mitt Romney employs a small team of video- and film-savvy staff members who produce ads from three editing suites at the campaign's headquarters in Boston's North End. Their recent productions include one 30-second Web video that shows Mr. Gingrich telling the Conservative Political Action Conference in 2010 that ''Governor Romney, in his business career, created more jobs than the entire Obama cabinet combined.'' Another, titled ''Newt and Nancy,'' ends with the words, ''With friends like Newt, who needs The Left'' splashed on the screen.
This Romney ad team also produced one of the more misleading commercials produced by a presidential candidate this year. That spot, called ''Believe in America,'' featured Mr. Obama quoting an associate of Senator John McCain. ''If we keep talking about the economy,'' Mr. Obama says, ''we're going to lose.'' The ad makes it appear as if the president, who was speaking in 2008 about his rival's campaign, was referring to his own political fate in the 2012 election.
Rick Perry's campaign went after Mr. Obama with a similarly deceptive ad that takes an out-of-context approach to the president's remarks that American businesses have been lazy about attracting foreign investment.
But as Mr. Romney has learned, the in-your-own-words game is a double-edged sword. He has been subject to relentless skewering by the video staff at the Democratic National Committee, which, like Mr. Romney's team, trawls the Internet for footage.
The committee's most attention-grabbing ad was one called ''Trapped'' that showed Mr. Romney making contradictory statements on issues like abortion.
Mr. Romney also saw himself skewered in a commercial produced by a little-known political group called American LP. It contains footage of him welcoming volunteers to the Salt Lake City Olympics in French. Along the bottom are what are purported to be subtitles but are actually quotes from previous statements that Mr. Romney has made, like his comment that he is politically independent.
One benefit from producing such provocative ads is that the groups and campaigns broadcasting them are able to generate publicity while spending little or no money buying time on television. The Romney ''Believe'' ad was broadcast on a single station in New Hampshire just a handful of times. And the Democratic National Committee spent only about $20,000 to broadcast ''Trapped.'' The ad with Mr. Romney speaking French was barely shown at all.
But they all got plenty of play on cable news and in blogs.
In that sense, the use of old footage in campaign ads mirrors the larger shift in the way voters are getting their campaign news. Some strategists see it as an extension of the way the primary process is evolving as it moves beyond Iowa pizza restaurants and church basements and is played out almost exclusively on national television.
''Voters are looking more discretely at the messages being presented by campaigns, and I think that's one of the reasons the debates are more impactful this time,'' said Tad Devine, a Democratic media strategist. As voters grow more wary of messages relayed through official filters, Mr. Devine added, ''I think the ad makers are observing that and saying, 'Well, why don't we move toward this in our own advertising?' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Newt Gingrich says he regrets his public service announcement with Nancy Pelosi. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YOUTUBE) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (69%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (67%); GLOBAL WARMING (56%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (55%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (88%); NANCY PELOSI (73%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); KARL ROVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1069 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2034 words

HEADLINE: Paul Disowns Extremists' Views But Doesn't Disavow the Support

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and SERGE F. KOVALESKI; Kitty Bennett and Jack Begg contributed research.

 BODY:
The American Free Press, which markets books like ''The Invention of the Jewish People'' and ''March of the Titans: A History of the White Race,'' is urging its subscribers to help it send hundreds of copies of Ron Paul's collected speeches to voters in New Hampshire. The book, it promises, will ''Help Dr. Ron Paul Win the G.O.P. Nomination in 2012!''
Don Black, director of the white nationalist Web site Stormfront, said in an interview that several dozen of his members were volunteering for Mr. Paul's presidential campaign, and a site forum titled ''Why is Ron Paul such a favorite here?'' has no fewer than 24 pages of comments. ''I understand he wins many fans because his monetary policy would hurt Jews,'' read one.
Far-right groups like the Militia of Montana say they are rooting for Mr. Paul as a stalwart against government tyranny. 
Mr. Paul's surprising surge in polls is creating excitement within a part of his political base that has been behind him for decades but overshadowed by his newer fans on college campuses and in some liberal precincts who are taken with his antiwar, anti-drug-laws messages.
The white supremacists, survivalists and anti-Zionists who have rallied behind his candidacy have not exactly been warmly welcomed. ''I wouldn't be happy with that,'' Mr. Paul said in an interview Friday when asked about getting help from volunteers with anti-Jewish or antiblack views.
But he did not disavow their support. ''If they want to endorse me, they're endorsing what I do or say -- it has nothing to do with endorsing what they say,'' said Mr. Paul, who is now running strong in Iowa for the Republican nomination.
The libertarian movement in American politics has long had two overlapping but distinct strains. One, backed to some degree by wealthy interests, is focused largely on economic freedom and dedicated to reducing taxes and regulation through smaller government. The other is more focused on personal liberty and constraints on government built into the Constitution, which at its extreme has helped fuel militant antigovernment sentiment.
Mr. Paul has operated at the nexus of the two, often espousing positions at odds with most of the Republican Party but assembling a diverse and loyal following attracted by his adherence to libertarian principles.
Mr. Paul's calls for the end of the Federal Reserve system, a cessation of aid to Israel and all other nations and an overall diminishment of government power have natural appeal among far-right, niche political groups. Aides say that much of the support is unsolicited and that it is unfair to overlook the larger number of mainstream voters now backing him.
But a look at the trajectory of Mr. Paul's career shows that he and his closest political allies either wittingly or unwittingly courted disaffected white voters with extreme views as they sought to forge a movement from the nether region of American politics, where the far right and the far left sometimes converge.
In May, Mr. Paul reiterated in an interview with Chris Matthews of MSNBC that he would not have voted for the Civil Rights Act of 1964 outlawing segregation. He said that he supported its intent, but that parts of it violated his longstanding belief that government should not dictate how property owners behave. He has been featured in videos of the John Birch Society, which campaigned against the Civil Rights Act, warning, for instance, that the United Nations threatens American sovereignty.
In the mid-1990s, between his two stints as a Texas congressman, Mr. Paul produced a newsletter called The Ron Paul Survival Report, which only months before the Oklahoma City bombings encouraged militias to seek out and expel federal agents in their midst. That edition was titled ''Why Militias Scare the Striped Pants Off Big Government.''
An earlier edition of another newsletter he produced, The Ron Paul Political Report, concluded that the need for citizens to arm themselves was only natural, given carjackings by ''urban youth who play whites like pianos.'' The report, with no byline but written in the first person, said: ''I've urged everyone in my family to know how to use a gun in self-defense. For the animals are coming.''
Mike Holmes, former editor of The American Libertarian, who has known Mr. Paul from libertarian circles since the 1970s, contended that the newsletters did not ''rise to the level of hate speech.'' He added: ''It goes more to the level of social commentary. There was no use of any 'N'-words. It amounted to the style of foul-mouthed punks trying to get inside the gang of paleoconservatives.''
Those newsletters have drawn new scrutiny through Mr. Paul's two recent presidential campaigns. The New Republic posted several of them online in 2008 and again recently, including a lament about ''The Disappearing White Majority.'' The conservative Weekly Standard ran an article highlighting the newsletters last week.
Mr. Paul has long repudiated the newsletters, contending that they were written by the staff of his company, Ron Paul & Associates, while he was tending to his obstetrician's practice and that he did not see some of them until 10 years later. ''I disavow those positions,'' he said in the interview. ''They're not my positions, and anybody who knows me, they've never heard a word of it.''
But production of the newsletters was partly overseen by Lew Rockwell, a libertarian activist who has been a close political aide and adviser to Mr. Paul over the course of decades. At the same time that he was a director for Mr. Paul's company, Mr. Rockwell called on libertarians to reach out to ''cultural and moral traditionalists,'' who ''reject not only affirmative action, set-asides and quotas, but the 1964 Civil Rights Act and all subsequent laws that force property owners to act against their will.''
Mr. Rockwell and Mr. Paul came to know each other as followers of the free-market Austrian economists Ludwig von Mises and Friedrich A. Hayek, who argued against socialism and centralized economic planning, a spokesman for Mr. Paul said. They joined with the libertarian theorist Murray Rothbard in the 1970s and 1980s during the early attempts to forge libertarianism into a national party.
Mr. Rockwell was listed in business filings as a director of Ron Paul & Associates from its founding in 1984 through its dissolution in 2001, and was a paid Paul campaign consultant through at least 2002, according to federal campaign records. He was Mr. Paul's chief of staff during the congressman's first period in Congress, which began in the 1970s, and championed his successful bid in 1988 for the Libertarian Party's presidential nomination.
During that nominating battle, a flier produced by Mr. Paul's opponents accused him of gay-baiting by reporting in one of his newsletters that the government was ''lying'' about the threat of AIDS and that the virus could be transmitted through ''saliva, tears, sweat.'' It said that some ''AIDS carriers -- perhaps out of a pathological hatred -- continue to give blood.''
Mr. Paul said Friday ''that was never my view at all,'' and again blamed his staff. Still, that same year he was quoted in The Houston Post as saying that schools should be free to bar children with AIDS and that the government should stop financing AIDS research and education.
As the Libertarian standard bearer, Mr. Paul won less than 1 percent of the vote. After the election, as libertarians searched for ways to broaden the appeal of their ideology, Mr. Rockwell and Mr. Rothbard advocated a coalition of libertarians and so-called paleoconservatives, who unlike hawkish ''neocons'' were socially conservative, noninterventionist and opposed to what they viewed as state-enforced multiculturalism.
In the Rothbard-Rockwell Report they started in 1990, Mr. Rothbard called for a ''Right Wing Populism,'' suggesting that the campaign for governor of Louisiana by David Duke, the founder of the National Association for the Advancement of White People, was a model for ''paleolibertarianism.''
''It is fascinating that there was nothing in Duke's current program or campaign that could not also be embraced by paleoconservatives or paleolibertarians,'' he wrote.
Arguing that too many libertarians were embracing a misplaced egalitarianism, Mr. Rockwell wrote in Liberty magazine: ''There is nothing wrong with blacks preferring the 'black thing.' But paleolibertarians would say the same about whites preferring the 'white thing' or Asians the 'Asian thing.' ''
Their thinking was hardly embraced by all libertarians. ''It was just something that we found abhorrent, and so there was a huge divide,'' said Edward H. Crane, the founder of the Cato Institute, a prominent libertarian research center.
Mr. Crane, a longtime critic of Mr. Rockwell, called Mr. Paul's close association with him ''one of the more perplexing things I've ever come across in my 67 years.'' He added: ''I wish Ron would condemn these fringe things that float around because of Rockwell. I don't believe he believes any of that stuff.''
Mr. Paul said in the interview that he did not, but he declined to condemn Mr. Rockwell, saying he did not want to get in the middle of a fight. ''I could understand that, but I could also understand the Rothbard group saying, Why don't you quit talking to Cato?'' he said.
Mr. Paul described Mr. Rockwell and Mr. Rothbard as political provocateurs. ''They enjoyed antagonizing people, to tell you the truth, and trying to split people,'' he said. ''I thought, we're so small, why shouldn't we be talking to everybody and bringing people together?''
Nonetheless, Mr. Paul's newsletters veered into language that would most likely appeal to Mr. Duke's followers, including the suggestion in 1994 that Mossad, the Israeli intelligence service, was responsible for the 1993 World Trade Center bombing.
He said he did not discuss the content of the newsletters with Mr. Rockwell because readers never complained. ''I was pretty careless about what was going in my own newsletter -- that was my biggest fault,'' he said.
Mr. Rockwell did not respond to interview requests. Carol Moore, a libertarian opponent of his at the time, said he and his allies had ''all evolved'' and moderated their views since.
Still, the newsletters had a lasting appeal with the audience Mr. Rockwell and Mr. Rothbard talked about reaching.
Mr. Black of Stormfront said the newsletters helped make him a Ron Paul supporter. ''That was a big part of his constituency, the paleoconservatives who think there are race problems in this country,'' Mr. Black said.
''We understand that Paul is not a white nationalist, but most of our people support him because of his stand on issues,'' Mr. Black said. ''We think our race is being threatened through a form of genocide by assimilation, meaning the allowing in of third-world immigrants into the United States.''
Mr. Black said Mr. Paul was attractive because of his ''aggressive position on securing our borders,'' his criticism of affirmative action and his goal of eliminating the Federal Reserve, which the Stormfront board considers to be essentially a private bank with no government oversight. ''Also, our board recognizes that most of the leaders involved in the Fed and the international banking system are Jews.''
Mr. Paul is not unaware of that strain among his supporters. Mr. Crane of the Cato Institute recalled comparing notes with Mr. Paul in the early 1980s about direct mail solicitations for money. When Mr. Crane said that mailing lists of people with the most extreme views seemed to draw the best response, Mr. Paul responded that he found the same thing with a list of subscribers to the Spotlight, a now-defunct publication founded by the holocaust denier Willis A. Carto.
Mr. Paul said he did not recall that conversation, which was first reported in the libertarian publication Reason, and doubted that he would have known what lists were being used on his behalf. Yet he said he would not have a problem seeking support from such a list.
''I'll go to anybody who I think I can convert to change their viewpoints -- so that would be to me incidental,'' he said. ''I'm always looking at converting people to look at liberty the way I do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Ron Paul (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
Ron Paul at an event last week in Iowa, where he has been gaining ground in his bid for the Republican nomination for president.
Mr. Paul often espouses positions at odds with most of the Republican Party but has assembled a diverse and loyal following. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A Ron Paul Political Report labeled ''A Special Issue on Racial Terrorism.'' Mr. Paul has repudiated such newsletters. (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LIBERALISM (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); MONETARY POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%)

PERSON: RON PAUL (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1070 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, Securities Overseer Spreads Gospel of Streamlined Regulation

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Steven Maijoor crisscrosses the Continent, meeting with politicians and investors to develop one set of securities rules for the European Union. 

 BODY:
PARIS - Steven Maijoor, the chairman of Europe's new securities regulator, has been piling up the frequent flier miles.
On a recent three-day trip, Mr. Maijoor, a former college professor, met fellow regulators in Frankfurt, spoke to institutional investors in Tallinn, Estonia, and held meetings with European politicians in Brussels.
"I knew this would be a hard job," Mr. Maijoor said in his newly furnished office in central Paris with views of local landmarks, including the Sacre-Coeur Basilica and the Louvre. "Sometimes I tend to leave the office late, and I'm certainly still not the last one out of the door."
 As chairman of the new European Securities and Markets Authority, Mr. Maijoor faces a big task ahead. The organization, which started work at the beginning of 2011, is trying to create one set of securities rules for all 27 members of the European Union.
The streamlined regulation is long overdue. While much of Europe's financial services industry has been integrated over the last decade, the Continent's regulation is still largely carried out at a domestic level. During the sovereign debt crisis, for example, investors in some European Union countries were able to bet against banking stocks, while such short-selling activity was banned in other jurisdictions.
The lack of coordination has proved problematic. As markets struggled in the aftermath of the financial crisis, European authorities did not have a clear picture about the performance of complicated financial instruments, like credit-default swaps.
"There's a likelihood that the impact on the financial system could have been smaller if we had access to more information," Mr. Maijoor said. "Now, we're in a much better position than before the credit crisis."
Mr. Maijoor, previously managing director at the Dutch financial markets regulator, has spent much of his first year in charge getting national regulators to share more information. Along with constant trips across the Continent to meet local authorities, he also heads the organization's board of supervisors, comprising representatives from the European Union's 27 national regulators, which meets regularly to decide on new regulation.
Mr. Maijoor, the former dean of Maastricht University's School of Business in the Netherlands, has also consulted with international counterparts, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, as part of a global effort to increase transparency in the financial markets. That includes weekly discussions with authorities to iron out differences that could potentially lead to regulatory arbitrage between the United States and Europe.
"We already have a pan-European financial market, so it's crucial there's an institution that can coordinate all the regulation," said Diego Valiante, a research fellow at the Center for European Policy Studies in Brussels. "It's highly dangerous to have fragmented supervisory mechanisms."
But Mr. Maijoor's efforts could to be hampered by limited resources. The regulator's 2011 budget is 16.9 million euros, or $22.1 million, compared with $1.1 billion the S.E.C. receives. It has a permanent staff of 60, which will rise to 200 over the next three years. Its counterpart in the United States employs more than 4,000.
Bureaucratic challenges also may take their toll. The European agency's legal structure gives all 27 of the European Union's national regulators a vote in rulemaking. Disagreements could delay reforms or force stand-offs between countries that differ on new legislation.
Market participants also are concerned about the agency's close ties to European politicians, many of whom vocally criticize the financial services sector's role in the Continent's debt crisis. The regulator is overseen by the European Commission, the nonelected executive branch of the European Union that is appointed by national governments.
"People are worried that decisions critical to the future of Europe's economic union are being taken in a nontransparent forum," said Etay Katz, a banking regulatory partner at the law firm Allen & Overy in London. The securities agency "faces a steep change in European financial regulation. There's a big question whether it has the capacity to stand on its own."
Despite the lingering concerns, Mr. Maijoor and his team are moving ahead. Two months ago, the organization, whose staff is drawn from more than 15 European nationalities, started supervising credit ratings agencies in Europe.
It has been an especially thorny issue. European politicians have been critical of the big American players like Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's for failing to catch problems with subprime securities before they started to implode during the financial crisis.
Now, companies offering ratings on financial products to European investors must register with the new authority. It will carry out inspections on their internal governance and risk mitigation practices. If inspectors find problems, the regulator has the right to fine, sanction or even withdraw a firm's license. The initial checks are expected to start in early 2012.
This is the first time ratings agencies in Europe have been regulated. The regulator will soon get similar powers to supervise the Continent's trade repositories, institutions that collect data on opaque over-the-counter derivatives contracts.
"We're going to be knocking on rating agencies' doors to see what's been going on," Mr. Maijoor said.
The major ratings agencies declined to comment. A market participant familiar with the regulator's new role said the pan-European approach would help improve regulatory consistency, but expressed concerns that it could be subject to political influence.
"Right now, E.S.M.A. doesn't have direct regulatory responsibility for anything else, so the ratings agencies are being treated like guinea pigs," the person said.
Mr. Maijoor's agenda for next year is packed. As part of the push to increase oversight of the financial markets, the new organization has been charged by the European Commission with writing dozens of new regulations. It is the first time a pan-European institution has been given specific powers to draft rules that affect all of the Continent's markets.
The authority "has taken on a special role because of its powers to set rules," said Bert Van Roosebeke, head of the financial services division at the Center for European Policy, a policy research organization based in Freiburg, Germany. "In the future, they will want to flex their muscle to show that they're in charge."
The organization is in the process of writing new standards for short-selling practices across Europe. The regulator has the power to ban financial products that it believes are a threat to European investors or market stability. This year, Mr. Maijoor helped to coordinate a temporary ban of short-selling in some euro zone countries.
Standards are also expected on the expanded role for clearinghouses - financial intermediaries that guarantee trades if one side defaults - and trade repositories in the over-the-counter derivatives markets. Under current proposals, derivatives contracts traded over the counter will be moved to exchanges and forced to use clearinghouses, as regulators try to increase oversight of the market.
"The flow of regulation that E.S.M.A. has to draft is a huge amount for such a small number of people," said Mr. Valiante of the Center for European Policy Studies. "It's going to be very busy during 2012."

        
One Option for Corzine in MF Global Inquiry: the Fifth Amendment
        
Corzine Out as Search for MF Global Funds Continues

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SECURITIES LAW (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); DEREGULATION (88%); EXTERNAL DEBT (87%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (84%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); MAJOR UK LAW FIRMS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (72%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%) Allen & Overy; Center for European Policy Studies; European Commission; European Securities and Markets Authority; Moody's; Securities and Exchange Commission; sovereign debt crisis; Standard & Poor's; Steven Maijoor; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Maijoor, Steven; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (61%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%) ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (90%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); BELGIUM (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); ESTONIA (90%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2011



1071 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Utopian Capitalism

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: It's time to contemplate new economic systems to remove the destructive incentives embodied in our modern capitalism, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
The blond prince hasn't renounced his throne, but now criticizes the system that put him there. The superstar capitalist Richard Branson, founder of the global Virgin corporate empire, announced in November that the "short-term focus on profit has driven most businesses to forget about the long-term role in taking care of people." 
His new book urges businesses to embrace morality through "philanthrocapitalism."
He does have a point. If all owners, bankers and corporate executives were virtuous souls, capitalism might function flawlessly. Adam Smith outlined a similar argument in the mid-18th century, in "The Theory of Moral Sentiments." The pursuit of economic self-interest, he explained, would generally be tempered by natural morality. The economist Russell Roberts offers a modern version of this argument in his novella "The Invisible Heart." 
Socialists are usually the ones accused of having an overly optimistic view of human nature. Today, some capitalists have started to sound utopian.

Most economists, whatever their political stripes, generally put more emphasis on incentives than on virtue. And most ordinary people understand that the incentives built into the global capitalist system tend to reward some very bad behaviors. 
Large corporations can often squelch their competition. They can minimize their costs by dumping waste products into the environment, contributing to pollution and global warming. They can use their profits to buy political influence. If they don't like the regulatory policies of one nation-state, they can simply shift their operations to another. 
Not all capitalists engage in bad behavior. But those who do often outcompete those who don't. The structure of corporate ownership and governance allows short-term profits to trump long-run efficiency. 
Recognition of these problems helps explain why the term "capitalism" doesn't poll nearly as well as other terms describing our economic system. A Gallup poll conducted last January found that 33 percent of Americans had a negative image of capitalism, but only 10 percent had a negative image of free enterprise or entrepreneurship and only 4 percent a negative view of small business.
Big business and big government were essentially tied for disapproval (49 percent and 51 percent, respectively) - not surprising, since they currently enjoy a symbiotic relationship. 
Republicans and Democrats differ far more on their images of capitalism (and socialism) than on free enterprise, entrepreneurship or small business. 
More than a third of Americans but more than half of Democrats and Democratic-leaning respondents have a positive image of socialism. 
The poll results suggest the political potential to develop a better hybrid system. Can we do something to minimize the perverse incentives that our current form of capitalism creates and move closer to our free enterprise ideals? 
In his new book, "America Beyond Capitalism," and in a recent opinion article in The New York Times, Gar Alperovitz makes a strong case for promoting cooperatives and worker-owned businesses.
A group of essays published during the summer in The Nation provides a longer list of strategies, asking, "If you had the ability to reinvent American capitalism, where would you start?" 
Answers ranged from putting public directors on corporate boards to taxing financial transactions to promoting full employment. Overlapping Mr. Branson's priorities, Jamie Raskin calls for changes to articles of incorporation that would allow companies to pursue social missions without fear of shareholder litigation. 
Readers also weigh in with a remarkable variety of suggestions. 
Maybe we should get some reinvention under way, just in case Mr. Branson fails to convert all his fellow capitalists to his cause. 

        
Occupy Economics
        
Comics for Economics
        
Sin Cycle: When Greed Isn't Good
        
Feminism's Uneven Success
        
Welfare Reform Revisited

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); POLLS & SURVEYS (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (85%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%) capitalism; Daily Economist; incentives; Nancy Folbre; socialism; Branson, Richard; Capitalism (Theory and Philosophy); United States Economy; Today's Economist

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (90%); ADAM SMITH (55%) Branson, Richard

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2011



1072 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: Romney Pushes Economic Agenda in New Ad

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney began the post-Christmas week with a new television advertisement stressing his conservative economic credentials and promising to get rid of President Obama's health care program. 

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- Mitt Romney won't arrive back in Iowa until Tuesday evening. But his campaign began the final week before the caucuses with a new television advertisement stressing his conservative economic credentials and promising to get rid of President Obama's health care program.
The ad, which the campaign said would begin running on television stations in the Hawkeye State this week, features Mr. Romney pledging to make government "simpler and smaller and smarter."
"It is a moral imperative for America to stop spending more money than we take in," Mr. Romney says in the 30-second spot. "It's killing jobs and it's keeping our kids from having the bright prospects they deserve."
Faced with an Iowa electorate that has not settled on a Republican favorite, Mr. Romney is making an aggressive push in the state even as he continues to campaign in New Hampshire, a state that his campaign has long said he must win.
Mr. Romney will hold two events in New Hampshire on Tuesday before flying to Davenport, Iowa for an event there in the afternoon. 
The new television commercial, which does not criticize any of Mr. Romney's Republican rivals, reflects the campaign's belief that Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, and Representative Ron Paul of Texas, his main rivals in Iowa, are receiving plenty of criticism from elsewhere.
Mr. Gingrich has been under a relentless assault from a "super PAC" supporting Mr. Romney and from the campaigns of Mr. Paul, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas and Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota. Mr. Paul has faced increasing scrutiny for political newsletters that contained racist statements, and about support for his campaign from white supremacist organizations.
That has left Mr. Romney able to focus almost entirely on his own record.
"The experience of balancing budgets is desperately needed in Washington and I will take it there," he says in the ad.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (91%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CHRISTMAS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); BUDGETS (77%) Romney, Mitt; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; Iowa; Ad Watch

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RON PAUL (77%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); RICK PERRY (57%); MICHELE BACHMANN (57%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: DAVENPORT, IA, USA (58%) IOWA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2011



1073 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Gingrich Unlikely to Get on Virginia Ballot

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL


HIGHLIGHT: Newt Gingrich, about a week away from the caucuses, has a nine-day bus tour planned in Iowa in which he will highlight his economic agenda 

 BODY:
6:03 p.m. | Updated Continuing to smart from its failure to get on the primary ballot in Virginia, Newt Gingrich's campaign said it would explore ways to persuade the Republican Party of Virginia to bend its rules and allow Mr. Gingrich and Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, who also failed to qualify, to join the only two names now on the ballot: Mitt Romney and Ron Paul.
"It does call into question whether or not there are some flaws in the system," said R. C. Hammond, a spokesman for Mr. Gingrich. He said he hoped that either Mr. Gingrich would appear on the ballot or that there would be a provision to write in his name.
But experts said Mr. Gingrich's prospects were all but nil, requiring either an emergency act of the state legislature or a court ruling. To change the state's election law on such short notice would require supermajorities in both houses once they re-convene Jan. 11. Ballots must be printed Jan. 21. Even though Republicans have a supermajority in the House, the Senate is evenly split 20-20 between the parties. 
The chances of a court ruling that would put Mr. Gingrich on the ballot or allow a write-in "seems like an incredibly long shot," said Carl Tobias a professor at the University of Richmond School of Law. "The courts are not likely to act on an emergency basis to entertain his suit. Maybe there's a constitutional problem with Virginia laws, but I doubt a court would rule that way.''
The Gingrich campaign, after first announcing it had gathered enough signatures to qualify for the Virginia primary ballot, was embarrassed when the organizers of the vote said it had missed the mark, and that there was no provision for a write-in.
The Gingrich campaign drew criticism over the Christmas weekend for comparing the failure to get on the ballot to the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor.
"Newt and I agreed that the analogy is December 1941: We have experienced an unexpected setback, but we will regroup and refocus with increased determination, commitment and positive action," the national campaign director, Michael Krull, wrote on the campaign's Facebook page.

The failure pointed to hurdles in organizing that have beset the campaign since Mr. Gingrich suddenly surged to become a leading candidate, without the infrastructure that better-financed and organized rivals have had in place.
The next test of the Gingrich organization begins in Dubuque, Iowa, on Tuesday, when Mr. Gingrich kicks off a nine-day bus tour of the state in which he will highlight his economic agenda. It was originally announced as a 44-stop barnstorming tour, but the schedule has been scaled back to about three stops a day. This will be the first time Mr. Gingrich has traveled by campaign bus. He also plans to let members of the news media aboard what the campaign earlier dubbed, in jest, the "Newt Talk Express."
Also riding along will be members of Mr. Gingrich's and his wife, Callista's, family. Mrs. Gingrich's mother, Bernita Bisek, who lives in Wisconsin, will be aboard at the start of the tour.

        
2008: The Edwards Couple to Talk at Noon
        
2008 Like It's Today: Politics and Friendship
        
2008 Like It's Today: Primary Polls
        
2008 Like It's Today
        
Christmas May Offer Respite for Gingrich

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); BALLOTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); WORLD WAR II (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Iowa; Iowa caucuses; newt gingrich; primaries; Virginia; Gingrich, Newt; Elections; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND (54%) Republican Party

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (94%); MITT ROMNEY (72%); RON PAUL (57%); RICK PERRY (57%) Gingrich, Newt

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (95%); IOWA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) Iowa; Virginia

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2011



1074 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Airlines Are Retrenching, And Alternatives Are Slim

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE coming year will be a time of reckoning in business travel, as airlines reduce service at many airports and prospects fade for practical alternatives to flying, including the long-term promises of high-speed rail.
Consider the new realities of air travel. Competition is decreasing, fares are rising and airlines are adjusting routes (and charging extra fees) in ruthless calculations to extract the greatest possible revenue per mile flown.
Michael Boyd, the president of the consulting company Boyd Group International, sums up the phenomenon succinctly. ''The cost of flying airplanes across the sky has eclipsed the ability to support it at many communities,'' he said in a recent forecast. In 2012, he predicts, airlines will accelerate the mothballing of smaller 50-seat jets, the workhorses for connecting service between many midsize airports, and even some big ones. 
Many airlines will continue shrinking overall capacity and trimming domestic routes in 2012, and the Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing of AMR, the parent company of American Airlines, will merely exacerbate the situation. In 2012, American will ''ground some planes and resize our network,'' the company's chief executive, Thomas W. Horton, recently told employees.
In addition, John P. Heimlich, the chief economist of the trade group Airlines for America, said, ''Capacity reduction is one of the steps the industry is taking to preserve profitability.''
Some business travelers are driving more often on some trips for which they would once fly. But what about trains? I got a lot of enthusiastic reader reaction a couple of weeks ago, after I wrote about taking a pleasant overnight trip in a cozy sleeper compartment on Amtrak's Silver Star from Tampa to New York City. The fare was $480.80.
Measured by time and money, that's not remotely competitive with flying, where the best one-way fare I found for the same trip was $301, on a flight that takes about two and a half hours, airport to airport.
On the other hand, the train fare included four meals in the diner car, as well as the overnight accommodations. For business travelers like Gary Brown, a consultant, such a rail option sometimes works.
Last year, Mr. Brown took trains round-trip from Minneapolis to Tampa, with stops in Chicago and Washington. ''Yes, a long, long ride, but I loved every minute of it,'' he said.
Mr. Brown said the rail alternative could make sense on itineraries where the train was convenient even if time-consuming. With cutbacks that often require more connecting flights, and given the need to arrive at airports well before departure time, Mr. Brown says he often has to fly the day before a business meeting and ''stay overnight if I'm to give my customers a full day of my consulting.''
He added, ''With Amtrak, I can often spend the night on the train instead of in a hotel room.''
Ah, what a joy it would be if the trains in this country actually went to all the places we need to go. Since we're dreaming, let's add that it would be such a joy if the trains went there a lot faster, too -- as in high-speed rail, which is usually defined as about 150 miles an hour or more.
Remember, my pleasant train trip from Tampa to New York City took 26 hours. Google Maps informs me that driving the same 1,125-mile route would take 19 and a half hours. The train is obviously more comfortable, but the fact is that the automobile goes faster, all things considered.
Alas, I predict 2012 will also be the year when we come to the collective realization that for the foreseeable future we may be stuck with the air, train and car transportation system as it is, given economics and politics.
Prospects are dim for improving existing train travel, let alone expanding it into national networks of high-speed intercity routes.
A week after my overnight train trip, the House Transportation Committee held another hearing on the rapidly dimming prospects for domestic high-speed rail. It focused on the most ambitious major project that is still alive, the proposed high-speed system linking California cities from San Francisco to San Diego. At a cost now estimated at $98.5 billion, that project, still in the planning phase, is already 13 years behind schedule.
It also appears to be as dead as the Concorde supersonic jet. The project is a ''disaster'' that's ''imploding,'' said John L. Mica, the committee chairman who, like many other planners, now thinks our best bet for intercity rail service is to improve it in the one place where it demonstrably already works well, the Northeast Corridor between Boston and Washington.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); TRAINS (89%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); AIR SERVICE (78%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (77%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); AIR FARES (73%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (53%)

COMPANY: AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (67%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (67%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (53%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1075 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2431 words

HEADLINE: Guns in Public, and Out of Sight

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO; Tom Torok contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Alan Simons was enjoying a Sunday morning bicycle ride with his family in Asheville, N.C., two years ago when a man in a sport utility vehicle suddenly pulled alongside him and started berating him for riding on the highway.
Mr. Simons, his 4-year-old son strapped in behind him, slowed to a halt. The driver, Charles Diez, an Asheville firefighter, stopped as well. When Mr. Simons walked over, he found himself staring down the barrel of a gun.
''Go ahead, I'll shoot you,'' Mr. Diez said, according to Mr. Simons. ''I'll kill you.''
Mr. Simons turned to leave but heard a deafening bang. A bullet had passed through his bike helmet just above his left ear, barely missing him. 
Mr. Diez, as it turned out, was one of more than 240,000 people in North Carolina with a permit to carry a concealed handgun. If not for that gun, Mr. Simons is convinced, the confrontation would have ended harmlessly. ''I bet it would have been a bunch of mouthing,'' he said.
Mr. Diez, then 42, eventually pleaded guilty to assault with a deadly weapon with intent to kill.
Across the country, it is easier than ever to carry a handgun in public. Prodded by the gun lobby, most states, including North Carolina, now require only a basic background check, and perhaps a safety class, to obtain a permit.
In state after state, guns are being allowed in places once off-limits, like bars, college campuses and houses of worship. And gun rights advocates are seeking to expand the map still further, pushing federal legislation that would require states to honor other states' concealed weapons permits. The House approved the bill last month; the Senate is expected to take it up next year.
The bedrock argument for this movement is that permit holders are law-abiding citizens who should be able to carry guns in public to protect themselves. ''These are people who have proven themselves to be among the most responsible and safe members of our community,'' the federal legislation's author, Representative Cliff Stearns, Republican of Florida, said on the House floor.
To assess that claim, The New York Times examined the permit program in North Carolina, one of a dwindling number of states where the identities of permit holders remain public. The review, encompassing the last five years, offers a rare, detailed look at how a liberalized concealed weapons law has played out in one state. And while it does not provide answers, it does raise questions.
More than 2,400 permit holders were convicted of felonies or misdemeanors, excluding traffic-related crimes, over the five-year period, The Times found when it compared databases of recent criminal court cases and licensees. While the figure represents a small percentage of those with permits, more than 200 were convicted of felonies, including at least 10 who committed murder or manslaughter. All but two of the killers used a gun.
Among them was Bobby Ray Bordeaux Jr., who had a concealed handgun permit despite a history of alcoholism, major depression and suicide attempts. In 2008, he shot two men with a .22-caliber revolver, killing one of them, during a fight outside a bar.
More than 200 permit holders were also convicted of gun- or weapon-related felonies or misdemeanors, including roughly 60 who committed weapon-related assaults.
In addition, nearly 900 permit holders were convicted of drunken driving, a potentially volatile circumstance given the link between drinking and violence.
The review also raises concerns about how well government officials police the permit process. In about half of the felony convictions, the authorities failed to revoke or suspend the holder's permit, including for cases of murder, rape and kidnapping. The apparent oversights are especially worrisome in North Carolina, one of about 20 states where anyone with a valid concealed handgun permit can buy firearms without the federally mandated criminal background check. (Under federal law, felons lose the right to own guns.)
Ricky Wills, 59, kept his permit after recently spending several months behind bars for terrorizing his estranged wife and their daughter with a pair of guns and then shooting at their house while they, along with a sheriff's deputy who had responded to a 911 call, were inside. ''That's crazy, absolutely crazy,'' his wife, Debra Wills, said in an interview when told that her husband could most likely still buy a gun at any store in the state.
Mr. Wills's permit was revoked this month, after The Times informed the local sheriff's office.
Growing National Trend
Gun laws vary across the country, but in most states, people do not need a license to keep firearms at home. Although some states allow guns to be carried in public in plain sight, gun rights advocates have mostly focused their efforts on expanding the right to carry concealed handguns.
The national movement toward more expansive concealed handgun laws began in earnest in 1987, when Florida instituted a ''shall issue'' permit process, in which law enforcement officials are required to grant the permits as long as applicants satisfy certain basic legal requirements.
The authorities in shall-issue states deny permits to certain applicants, like convicted felons and people who have been involuntarily committed to a mental health institution, unless their gun rights have been restored. North Carolina, which enacted its shall-issue law in 1995, also bars applicants who have committed violent misdemeanors and has a variety of other disqualifiers; it also requires enrollment in a gun safety class.
Today, 39 states either have a shall-issue permit process or do not require a permit at all to carry a concealed handgun. Ten others are ''may issue,'' meaning law enforcement agencies have discretion to conduct more in-depth investigations and exercise their judgment. For example, the authorities might turn down someone who has no criminal record but appears to pose a risk or does not make a convincing case about needing to carry a gun. Gun rights advocates argue, however, that such processes are rife with the potential for abuse.
For now, the permits are good only in the holder's home state, as well as others that recognize them. The bill under consideration in Congress would require that permits be recognized everywhere, even in jurisdictions that might bar the holder from owning a gun in the first place.
In recent years, a succession of state legislatures have also struck down restrictions on carrying concealed weapons in all sorts of public places. North Carolina this year began allowing concealed handguns in local parks, and next year the legislature is expected to consider permitting guns in restaurants.
Efforts to evaluate the impact of concealed carry laws on crime rates have produced contradictory results.
Researchers acknowledge that those who fit the demographic profile of a typical permit holder -- middle-age white men -- are not usually major drivers of violent crime. At the same time, several states have produced statistical reports showing, as in North Carolina, that a small segment does end up on the wrong side of the law. As a result, the question becomes whether allowing more people to carry guns actually deters crime, as gun rights advocates contend, and whether that outweighs the risks posed by the minority who commit crimes.
Gun rights advocates invariably point to the work of John R. Lott, an economist who concluded in the late 1990s that the laws had substantially reduced violent crime. Subsequent studies, however, have found serious flaws in his data and methodology.
A few independent researchers using different data have come to similar conclusions, but many other studies have found no net effect of concealed carry laws or have come to the opposite conclusion. Most notably, Ian Ayres and John J. Donohue, economists and law professors, concluded that the best available data and modeling showed that permissive right-to-carry laws, at a minimum, increased aggravated assaults. Their data also showed that robberies and homicides went up, but the findings were not statistically significant.
In the end, most researchers say the scattershot results are not unexpected, because the laws, in all likelihood, have not significantly increased the number of people carrying concealed weapons among those most likely to commit crimes or to be victimized.
Crimes by Permit Holders
Gun advocates are quick to cite anecdotes of permit holders who stopped crimes with their guns. It is virtually impossible, however, to track these episodes in a systematic way. By contrast, crimes committed by permit holders can be.
The shooting at the Hogs Pen Pub in Macclesfield, N.C., in August 2008 took place after two men, Cliff Jackson and Eddie Bordeaux, got into a scuffle outside the bar. John Warlick, who was there with his wife, helped separate them, only to see Eddie's brother, Bobby Ray, fatally shoot Mr. Jackson in the back of the head. Mr. Bordeaux then shot Mr. Warlick in the upper torso, wounding him.
Bobby Ray Bordeaux had obtained a concealed carry permit in 2004 and used to take a handgun everywhere. He was also an alcoholic and heavy user of marijuana with a long history of depression, according to court records. He had been hospitalized repeatedly for episodes related to his drinking, including about a year before, when he shot himself in the chest with a pistol while drunk in an apparent suicide attempt. Mr. Bordeaux, then 48, started drinking heavily at age 13. He had been taking medication for depression but had not taken it the day of the shooting, he later told the police. He also said he had 15 beers and smoked marijuana that night and claimed to have no memory of what occurred. He was eventually convicted of first-degree murder and assault with a deadly weapon inflicting serious injury.
John K. Gallaher III, a permit holder since 2006, was also an alcoholic with serious mental health issues, said David Hall, the assistant district attorney who prosecuted him for murder. In May 2008, Mr. Gallaher, then 24, shot and killed a friend, Sean Gallagher, and a woman, Lori Fioravanti, with a .25-caliber Beretta after an argument at his grandfather's home. The police found 22 guns, including an assault rifle, at his home. Mr. Gallaher pleaded guilty to two counts of first-degree murder last year.
Among the other killings: three months after receiving his permit in July 2006, Mark Stephen Thomas killed Christopher Brynarsky with a handgun after an argument at Mr. Brynarsky's custom detail shop. In 2007, Jamez Mellion, a permit holder since 2004, killed Capt. Paul Burton Miner III of the Army by shooting him 10 times with two handguns after finding him with his estranged wife. William Littleton, who obtained a permit in 1998 and was well known to the police because of complaints about him, shot his neighbor to death with a rifle in 2008 over a legal dispute.
More common were less serious gun-related episodes like these: in July 2008, Scotty L. Durham, who got his permit in 2006, confronted his soon-to-be ex-wife and another man in the parking lot of Coffee World in Durham and fired two shots in the air with a .45-caliber Glock. Antoine Cornelius Whitted, a permit holder since 2009, discharged his semiautomatic handgun during a street fight in Durham last year. Jerry Maurice Thomas, a permit holder since 2009 whose drinking problems were well known to the authorities, held a gun to his girlfriend's head at his house in Asheville last year, prompting a standoff with the police.
Falling Through the Cracks
Gun rights advocates in North Carolina, as well as elsewhere, often point to the low numbers of permit revocations as evidence of how few permit holders break the law. Yet permits were often not suspended or revoked in North Carolina when they should have been.
Charles Dowdle of Franklin was convicted of multiple felonies in 2006 for threatening to kill his girlfriend and chasing her to her sister's house, where he fired a shotgun round through a closed door. He then pointed the gun at the sister, who knocked it away, causing it to fire again. Mr. Dowdle was sentenced to probation, but his concealed handgun permit remained active until it expired in 2009.
Mr. Dowdle, 63, said in a telephone interview that although he gave away his guns after his conviction, no one had ever done anything about his permit. He said he ''could probably have purchased'' a gun with it but had not done so because federal law forbade it.
Besides felons like Mr. Dowdle, The Times also found scores of people who kept their permits after convictions for violent misdemeanors. They included more than half of the roughly 40 permit holders convicted in the last five years of assault by pointing gun and nearly two-thirds of the more than 70 convicted of a common domestic violence charge, assault on a female.
Precisely how these failures of oversight occurred is not clear. The normal protocol would be for the local sheriff's office to suspend and eventually revoke a permit after a holder is arrested and convicted of a disqualifying crime, the authorities said. The State Bureau of Investigation, which maintains a computerized database of permits, also tries to notify individual sheriffs when it discovers that a holder has been arrested for a serious crime, according to a spokeswoman, but the process is not formalized.
In Ricky Wills's case, he not only threatened his wife and daughter last May with a handgun and a rifle, but he shot at their house while a Union County sheriff's deputy was inside. It led to convictions on two charges: assault with a deadly weapon with intent to kill and assault on a police officer.
Soon after the shooting, Mr. Wills's wife obtained a restraining order, which also should have led to his permit being suspended.
Sgt. Lori Pierce, who handles concealed handgun permits in Union County, said no one ever notified her about Mr. Wills, who was released from prison in November. And as the sole person handling permits in her county, she said, she does not have time to conduct regular criminal checks on permit holders, unless they are up for a five-year renewal.
As it is, she said, she can barely keep up with issuing permits. She has granted about 1,300 this year.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 29, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Tuesday about North Carolina's concealed-handgun permit program misstated the name of the town that is home to the Hogs Pen Pub, the site of a fatal shooting in 2008 by the holder of one such permit. It is Macclesfield, not Macclesville.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A DANGEROUS ENCOUNTER: Alan Simons and his family were riding their bikes in Asheville, N.C., when a driver, Charles Diez, top left, pulled up next to him and started berating him. Mr. Diez, who had a concealed weapon permit, shot at Mr. Simons. The bullet passed through his helmet, bottom left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASHEVILLE POLICE DEPARTMENT) (A13) MAPS: Easing Restrictions on Gun Permits: In the past 30 years, states across the country have made it easier for people to obtain permits to carry concealed guns. State laws vary but are primarily distinguished by whether the permit process is ''shall issue,'' in which the authorities must grant a license to anyone who meets certain basic legal requirements, or ''may issue,'' in which they are afforded discretion in their decisions. (Source: Legal Community Against Violence) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); GUN CONTROL (89%); CONCEALED WEAPONS (89%); FIREARMS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (87%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (85%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CYCLING (78%); APPROVALS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (72%); MISDEMEANORS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); FELONIES (71%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (70%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (70%); LICENSES & PERMITS (68%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (66%)

PERSON: CLIFF STEARNS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (95%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011



1076 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; BASICS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: Now We Are Six

BYLINE: By NATALIE ANGIER

 BODY:
VIEWED superficially, the part of youth that the psychologist Jean Piaget called middle childhood looks tame and uneventful, a quiet patch of road on the otherwise hairpin highway to adulthood.
Said to begin around 5 or 6, when toddlerhood has ended and even the most protractedly breast-fed children have been weaned, and to end when the teen years commence, middle childhood certainly lacks the physical flamboyance of the epochs fore and aft: no gotcha cuteness of babydom, no secondary sexual billboards of pubescence.
Yet as new findings from neuroscience, evolutionary biology, paleontology and anthropology make clear, middle childhood is anything but a bland placeholder. To the contrary, it is a time of great cognitive creativity and ambition, when the brain has pretty much reached its adult size and can focus on threading together its private intranet service -- on forging, organizing, amplifying and annotating the tens of billions of synaptic connections that allow brain cells and brain domains to communicate. 
Subsidizing the deft frenzy of brain maturation is a distinctive endocrinological event called adrenarche (a-DREN-ar-kee), when the adrenal glands that sit like tricornered hats atop the kidneys begin pumping out powerful hormones known to affect the brain, most notably the androgen dihydroepiandrosterone, or DHEA. Researchers have only begun to understand adrenarche in any detail, but they see it as a signature feature of middle childhood every bit as important as the more familiar gonadal reveille that follows a few years later.
Middle childhood is when the parts of the brain most closely associated with being human finally come online: our ability to control our impulses, to reason, to focus, to plan for the future.
Young children may know something about death and see monsters lurking under every bed, but only in middle childhood is the brain capable of practicing so-called terror management, of accepting one's inevitable mortality or at least pushing thoughts of it aside.
Other researchers studying the fossil record suggest that a prolonged middle childhood is a fairly recent development in human evolution, a luxury of unfolding that our cousins the Neanderthals did not seem to share. Still others have analyzed attitudes toward middle childhood historically and cross-culturally. The researchers have found that virtually every group examined recognizes middle childhood as a developmental watershed, when children emerge from the shadows of dependency and start taking their place in the wider world.
Much of the new work on middle childhood was described in a recent special issue of the journal Human Nature. As a research topic, ''middle childhood has been very much overlooked until recently,'' said David Lancy, an anthropologist at Utah State University and a contributor to the special issue. ''Which makes it all the more exciting to participate in the field today.''
The anatomy of middle childhood can be subtle. Adult teeth start growing in, allowing children to diversify their diet beyond the mashed potatoes and parentally dissected Salisbury steak stage. The growth of the skeleton, by contrast, slows from the vertiginous pace of early childhood, and though there is a mild growth spurt at age 6 or 7, as well as a bit of chubbying up during the so-called adiposity rebound of middle childhood, much of the remaining skeletal growth awaits the superspurt of puberty.
''Adulthood is defined by being skeletally as well as sexually mature,'' said Jennifer Thompson of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. ''A girl may have her first period at 11 or 12, but her pelvis doesn't finish growing until about the age of 18.''
The 18-year time frame of human juvenility far exceeds that seen in any other great ape, Dr. Thompson said. Chimpanzees, for example, are fully formed by age 12. With her colleague Andrew J. Nelson of the University of Western Ontario, Dr. Thompson analyzed fossil specimens from Neanderthals, Homo erectus and other early hominids, and concluded that their growth pattern was more like that of a chimpanzee than a modern human: By age 12 or 14, they had reached adult size.
Life for Neanderthals was nasty and short, Dr. Thompson said, and Neanderthal children had to get big fast, which is why they hurtled through adolescence at the equivalent of today's chapter-book age. Our extreme form of dilated childhood didn't appear until the advent of modern Homo sapiens roughly 150,000 years ago, Dr. Thompson said, when adults began living long enough to ease pressure on the young to hurry up and breed.
And what an essential luxury item middle childhood has proved to be. ''It's consistent across societies,'' Benjamin Campbell, an anthropologist at the University of Wisconsin in Milwaukee said. ''In middle childhood, kids start making sense.''
Parental expectations rise accordingly. ''Kids can do something now,'' said Dr. Campbell, who edited the special issue. ''They can do tasks. They have economic value.''
Boys are given goats to herd and messages to deliver. They hunt and fish. Girls weave, haul water, grind corn, chop firewood, serve as part-time mothers to their younger siblings; a serious share of baby care in the world is performed by girls not yet in their teens.
Workloads and expectations vary substantially from one culture to the next. Karen Kramer and Russell Greaves of Harvard compared the average number of hours that girls in 16 different traditional cultures devoted each day to ''subsistence'' tasks apart from child care. Girls of the Ariaal pastoralists in northern Kenya worked the hardest, putting in 9.6 hours daily. Agriculturalist girls in Nepal worked 7.5 hours a day.
Then you come to the more laid-back lives of the foragers. The researchers focused on the Pume, a foraging group in west-central Venezuela, where preadolescent girls do almost nothing. They forage less than an hour a day, significantly less than their brothers, and are very inefficient in what little they do. They prefer hanging out at the campsite. ''Pume girls spend their time socializing, talking and laughing with their friends, beading and resting,'' Dr. Kramer said.
But most cultures mark the beginning of middle childhood with some new responsibility. Kwoma children of Papua New Guinea are given their own garden plots to cultivate. Berber girls of northern Africa vie to prove their worth by preparing entire family meals unassisted.
In the Ituri forest of Central Africa, Mbuti boys strive to kill their first ''real animal,'' for which they will be honored through ritualized facial scarring. And in the United States, children enter elementary school, for which they will be honored through ritualized gold starring.
In middle childhood, the brain is at its peak for learning, organized enough to attempt mastery yet still fluid, elastic, neuronally gymnastic. Children have lost the clumsiness of toddlerhood and can become physically gymnastic, too, and start practicing their fine motor skills. And because they are still smaller than adults, they can grow adept at a skill like, say, spear-tossing, without fear of threatening the resident men.
Middle childhood is the time to make sense and make friends. ''This is the period when kids move out of the family context and into the neighborhood context,'' Dr. Campbell said.
The all-important theory of mind arises: the awareness that other people have minds, plans and desires of their own. Children become obsessed with social groups and divide along gender lines, girls playing with girls, boys with boys. They have an avid appetite for learning the local social rules, whether of games, slang, style or behavior. They are keenly attuned to questions of fairness and justice and instantly notice those grabbing more than their share.
The mental and kinesthetic pliancy of middle childhood can be traced at least in part to adrenarche, researchers said, when signals from the pea-size pituitary at the base of the brain prod the adrenal glands to unleash their hormonal largess. Adrenal hormones like DHEA are potent antioxidants and neuroprotectants, Dr. Campbell said, and may well be critical to keeping neurons and their dendritic connections youthfully spry.
Evidence also suggests that the adrenal hormones divert glucose in the brain to foster the maturation of the insula and anterior cingulate cortex, brain regions vital to interpreting social and emotional cues.
In middle childhood, the brain is open for suggestions. What do I need to know? What do I want to know? Well, you could take up piano, chess or juggling, learn another language or how to ski. Or you could go outside and play with your friends. If you learn to play fair, friends will always be there.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES) (D1)
 PLAYTIME: In many cultures middle childhood brings added responsibilities, but young Pume hunter-gatherer girls in Venezuela do little work until they are fully grown. (PHOTOGRAPH BY R.D. GREAVES AND K.L. KRAMER) (D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOLOGY (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); BREASTFEEDING (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); NEUROSCIENCE (75%); BRAIN (75%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); ENDOCRINOLOGY (72%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (66%); INTRANETS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1077 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; BOOKS ON SCIENCE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Portraits of the Southwest in the Shadow of Drought

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN

 BODY:
The intense, deep blue skies of the American Southwest, skies that have drawn painters and photographers for a century or more, are a product of the region's extremely dry air.
Yet here's another interesting fact: Though we think of the Southwest as dry -- and it is dry -- its development and population took off during a period in the 20th century when it enjoyed perhaps its wettest weather in hundreds of years. The killing droughts that have lately gripped the region were unusual by recent standards but otherwise all too typical and all too likely to recur -- a prospect the National Research Council has called ''sobering.''
That prospect is the subject of two new books, ''A Great Aridness,'' by William deBuys, a conservationist based in New Mexico, and ''Bird on Fire,'' by Andrew Ross, a social scientist at New York University. 
''The story of the West is essentially a story about water,'' Dr. deBuys writes.
Water, that is, ''and its lack.''
In his hands, it is a sweeping story, encompassing global weather patterns, the mysterious histories and farming practices of the native people whose settlements rose and vanished in the desert, and the firefighters, biologists, anthropologists, water administrators and others who deal with increasing dryness today and seek to plan for an even drier tomorrow.
In interviews in their offices and in the field, they tell him they fear the story will play out -- in forest fires, invasions of insects that prey on trees weakened by drought and heat, die-offs of native grasses, and prolonged dryness and thirst. Rains, when they come, will fall less often in the gentle, soaking precipitation Native Americans call ''female rain'' and instead will be its ''male'' counterpart -- short, sharp downpours that flood the arroyos, erode the canyons and run off before they can do much to recharge underground water supplies already burdened by overuse.
A few steps might alter things, Dr. deBuys writes. Among them are weather modifications like cloud seeding, vegetation management to increase runoff, desalting water or importing it from the Mississippi River. Unfortunately, he tells us, none of these options is good.
Importing water and desalination are ''gluttonous'' in terms of energy and money, he says, and efforts to manipulate vegetation will probably fail in the face of rising temperatures. As for weather modification, wringing water out of the skies over Point A will only deprive the landscape at Point B.
Dr. Ross raises similar issues in ''Bird on Fire.''
This book's focus is narrower -- the city of Phoenix, rather than the area roughly from the Four Corners states to northern Mexico that forms Dr. deBuys's canvas. But Dr. Ross also casts a wider net, considering issues like air quality, the unjust confluence of noxious manufacturing and low-income neighborhoods, and the circular economics of a city whose population growth was fueled by the need for construction workers to build the houses required by the influx of construction workers.
Dr. Ross quotes with approval a Tucson essayist who says there's no lack of water in the region, ''unless you try to establish a city where no city should be.'' For him, Phoenix's history of ''self-destructive decisions'' has left it facing ''urban collapse from some extreme state of resource scarcity.''
Both authors cite the work of Jonathan Overpeck, a geologist and a director of the Institute of the Environment at the University of Arizona, whose tracking of simultaneously increasing temperatures and decreasing rainfall leads him to conclude that a new era of drought is dawning in many regions. He is not alone. The NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies had already predicted that extreme droughts would be an every-other-year phenomenon in the United States by the middle of this century.
And of course, the American Southwest is not the only region experiencing drought apparently tied to climate change. According to the journal Science, of the 12 driest winters the Mediterranean has experienced since 1902, 10 have occurred in the last 20 years. Researchers from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration say climate change can explain half of the added dryness.
''The coming droughts ought to be a major driver -- if not the major driver -- of climate policies,'' Joseph Romm wrote in a recent issue of the journal Nature. Dr. Romm, a physicist who edits the blog Climate Progress, added, ''Raising public awareness of, and scientific focus on, the likelihood of severe effects of drought is the first step to prompting action.''
People who read these books will understand that message.
One step, Dr. Ross writes, would be to begin rectifying the environmental inequality that already consigns the poor to bad air, polluted water and general environmental degradation.
''Can the well-provisioned respond in kind to the environmentalist claims of the poor?'' he asks. If an era of real water scarcity dawns, as many scientists now predict it inevitably will, the ability of states and localities to allocate supplies fairly will be a telling test. If they fail that test, Dr. Ross writes, they face a future of ''eco-apartheid.''
Dr. deBuys puts it somewhat differently. History teaches that people have difficulty adapting to prolonged, extreme drought, he writes. Faced with it, they typically abandon efforts to cope and simply abandon their homes. That is why we call dry places deserts -- they are deserted.
Is that tactic likely for today's Southwest? No. But, he writes, any answers to the water challenge will require ''strong social will and collective commitment.''
At the moment, though, the region's politics tend to embrace the idea that collective action of any kind is inherently suspicious or even evil; government is the problem, never the solution; and regulation is the bane of economic growth.
These ideas are not in accord with Dr. deBuys's prescription, which is to ''get on with what we should have been doing all along, including limiting greenhouse gases.''
There is no silver bullet, he writes. ''There is only the age-old duty to extend kindness to other beings, to work together and with discipline on common challenges.''
A GREAT ARIDNESS
Climate Change and the Future of the American Southwest. By William deBuys. Oxford University Press. 384 pages. $27.95.
BIRD ON FIRE
Lessons From the World's Least Sustainable City. By Andrew Ross. Oxford University Press. 312 pages. $27.95.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DROUGHT (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); WEATHER (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); FOREST FIRES (73%); BIOLOGY (69%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (68%); FIRES (68%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (66%); INTERVIEWS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1078 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Plummeting TV Prices Squeeze Makers and Sellers

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
It's a great time to buy a television, and Ram Lall, a television salesman, isn't happy about it. In a basement showroom of J&R, the huge electronics store in Lower Manhattan, Mr. Lall says the days of making big money from televisions are in the past. Pointing to a top-of-the line, 55-inch Sony television, Mr. Lall said it would have sold for $6,000 a few years ago. The current price? $2,599.
''We are making less money because the company is forcing us to slash prices,'' Mr. Lall said, standing amid rows of flickering television sets. 
Televisions have become so inexpensive that the profits have largely been squeezed out of them, a result of a huge increase in manufacturing capacity that has led to an oversupply and continued downward pressure on prices from low-cost manufacturers and online retailers.
The near fire-sale prices are great for consumers, who can now buy a television for a fraction of what one cost just a few years ago.
But what is good news for consumers has been a nightmare for manufacturers of TVs and retailers that sell them. The earnings of mainstay television manufacturers like Panasonic, Toshiba and Sony have been hammered. Sony, for instance, is overhauling its television operations because of what one executive said recently was a ''grave sense of crisis that we have continued to post losses in TVs.'' Even newer and more nimble competitors like Samsung and LG have struggled to make much money on TVs, if any.
Seeking to stanch its losses, Sony on Monday said it would end its flat-panel joint venture with Samsung, which was set up in 2004 to capture the boom in televisions with liquid-crystal displays. Samsung, based in South Korea, will pay about $940 million for Tokyo-based Sony's 50 percent stake; Sony aims to save on manufacturing costs while still buying panels from Samsung.
For retailers, the picture is not much better. This month, Best Buy reported a 29 percent drop in net income for the third quarter, in part because the retail chain had slashed prices on televisions and other electronics.
Perhaps even more ominously for the long term, the future of televisions appears to be more about what content they can provide, like Netflix and iTunes, than new hardware features like flat screens or 3-D technology. It is an area where television manufacturers have struggled with little success to get an edge, even as Apple and Google vow to upend the industry.
''Everybody is fighting for a limited amount of consumer dollars,'' said Gregg Richard, president of PC Richard and Son, which has 66 electronics and appliance stores. ''We are selling more TVs, more units, at lower retail prices.''
It does not help that consumers are reluctant to pay much more for the latest features, like 3-D and Internet connectivity. Instead, they are likely to wait patiently for a few months until the price inevitably comes down.
''People used to pay additional to get a Sony Trinitron,'' said Riddhi Patel, director of television systems at IHS iSuppli, a market research firm. ''But the industry has trained the consumer that any time there is a new technology, if they wait six months the price will come down.''
Paul Gagnon, director of North America TV research for DisplaySearch, which tracks the market, noted that a 60-inch LCD television by Sharp was now selling for as little as $799 -- about half of what it was selling just a year ago. ''Absolutely amazing,'' he said.
The slump is a hangover of sorts for an industry that binged on years of double-digit growth, as consumers rushed to replace old television sets with flashy new models with new features like high definition and flat screens.
There were roughly 32 million television sets sold in North America in 2004, for an average cost of $400, Mr. Gagnon said. The average size of a television was 27 inches. Today, 44 million sets are sold a year in North America, with an average cost of $460 and an average size of 38 inches.
Consumers buy a new television set every seven years or so, and an average household owns 2.8 TVs, he said. While those numbers would suggest a bonanza for television manufacturers, Mr. Gagnon said the larger, more sophisticated sets were expensive to manufacture and cut into manufacturers' profit margins.
To help reduce costs, manufacturers invested heavily in sophisticated new factories or retrofitted old ones that were capable of cranking out more televisions at lower cost. The problem is that the factories became operational about the time the recession hit, creating a glut of televisions and forcing prices down.
A strong yen, relative to the dollar, has further hurt Japanese manufacturers like Sony and Panasonic, while Korean manufacturers like Samsung have benefited from a weak won.
Tablet devices like iPads that can be used like televisions are also cutting into sales.
Ms. Patel, who makes her living from the TV industry, said she had a flat-panel TV and a couple of iPads in her household. ''Guess what? The price of an iPad is the same as a 42-inch LCD TV. It is more personal, yet everyone can use it.''
Despite the success of the iPad, Apple has not yet transformed the television in the same manner that it did music players and mobile phones, despite years of effort. Apple introduced a television accessory in 2007 that allowed users to stream iTunes content, but consumers were not enamored. Still, Steve Jobs vowed before his death to create a television with ''the simplest user interface you can image.''
Google, meanwhile, offered a second version of Google TV in October that includes apps so viewers can search cable and Web sites for movies and shows and even live concerts.
At a conference in Paris this month, Google's chairman, Eric E. Schmidt, boldly predicted that Google TV would be offered on the majority of new televisions by the summer.
While it is too soon to know whether Apple or Google's television ventures will succeed, Mr. Gagnon said traditional TV makers would be wise to focus on ''a more intuitive user interface that just works right out of the box with other products.''
''If Apple is going to enter the space, it certainly is going to raise the bar in terms of user experience,'' he said. ''Traditional TV makers will have some catching up to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Best Buy in Texas. Best Buy's quarterly profit declined in part after cuts in TV prices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY W. SMITH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B1)
 Shoppers in a Target store in Chicago. Consumers are less inclined to pay more for new technology like 3-D or flat-screen TVs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN GRESS/REUTERS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (91%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); RETAILERS (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (78%); PRICE CUTTING (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); PLANT CAPACITY (68%); JOINT VENTURES (63%)

COMPANY: LG CORP (84%); TOSHIBA CORP (55%); NETFLIX INC (53%); GOOGLE INC (51%); P C RICHARD & SON CORP (50%); PC RICHARD & SON INC (50%)

TICKER: 003550 (KSE) (84%); TOS (LSE) (55%); 6502 (TSE) (55%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (53%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (84%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (84%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (53%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (53%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (50%); NAICS443141 HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (50%); SIC3631 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (77%); JAPAN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1079 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, Securities Overseer Spreads Gospel of Streamlined Regulation

BYLINE: By MARK SCOTT

 BODY:
PARIS - Steven Maijoor, the chairman of Europe's new securities regulator, has been piling up the frequent flier miles.
On a recent three-day trip, Mr. Maijoor, a former college professor, met fellow regulators in Frankfurt, spoke to institutional investors in Tallinn, Estonia, and held meetings with European politicians in Brussels.
''I knew this would be a hard job,'' Mr. Maijoor said in his newly furnished office in central Paris with views of local landmarks, including the Sacre-Coeur Basilica and the Louvre. ''Sometimes I tend to leave the office late, and I'm certainly still not the last one out of the door.''
As chairman of the new European Securities and Markets Authority, Mr. Maijoor faces a big task ahead. The organization, which started work at the beginning of 2011, is trying to create one set of securities rules for all 27 members of the European Union. 
The streamlined regulation is long overdue. While much of Europe's financial services industry has been integrated over the last decade, the Continent's regulation is still largely carried out at a domestic level. During the sovereign debt crisis, for example, investors in some European Union countries were able to bet against banking stocks, while such short-selling activity was banned in other jurisdictions.
The lack of coordination has proved problematic. As markets struggled in the aftermath of the financial crisis, European authorities did not have a clear picture about the performance of complicated financial instruments, like credit-default swaps.
''There's a likelihood that the impact on the financial system could have been smaller if we had access to more information,'' Mr. Maijoor said. ''Now, we're in a much better position than before the credit crisis.''
Mr. Maijoor, previously managing director at the Dutch financial markets regulator, has spent much of his first year in charge getting national regulators to share more information. Along with constant trips across the Continent to meet local authorities, he also heads the organization's board of supervisors, comprising representatives from the European Union's 27 national regulators, which meets regularly to decide on new regulation.
Mr. Maijoor, the former dean of Maastricht University's School of Business in the Netherlands, has also consulted with international counterparts, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, as part of a global effort to increase transparency in the financial markets. That includes weekly discussions with authorities to iron out differences that could potentially lead to regulatory arbitrage between the United States and Europe.
''We already have a pan-European financial market, so it's crucial there's an institution that can coordinate all the regulation,'' said Diego Valiante, a research fellow at the Center for European Policy Studies in Brussels. ''It's highly dangerous to have fragmented supervisory mechanisms.''
But Mr. Maijoor's efforts could to be hampered by limited resources. The regulator's 2011 budget is 16.9 million euros, or $22.1 million, compared with $1.1 billion the S.E.C. receives. It has a permanent staff of 60, which will rise to 200 over the next three years. Its counterpart in the United States employs more than 4,000.
Bureaucratic challenges also may take their toll. The European agency's legal structure gives all 27 of the European Union's national regulators a vote in rulemaking. Disagreements could delay reforms or force stand-offs between countries that differ on new legislation.
Market participants also are concerned about the agency's close ties to European politicians, many of whom vocally criticize the financial services sector's role in the Continent's debt crisis. The regulator is overseen by the European Commission, the nonelected executive branch of the European Union that is appointed by national governments.
''People are worried that decisions critical to the future of Europe's economic union are being taken in a nontransparent forum,'' said Etay Katz, a banking regulatory partner at the law firm Allen & Overy in London. The securities agency ''faces a steep change in European financial regulation. There's a big question whether it has the capacity to stand on its own.''
Despite the lingering concerns, Mr. Maijoor and his team are moving ahead. Two months ago, the organization, whose staff is drawn from more than 15 European nationalities, started supervising credit ratings agencies in Europe.
It has been an especially thorny issue. European politicians have been critical of the big American players like Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's for failing to catch problems with subprime securities before they started to implode during the financial crisis.
Now, companies offering ratings on financial products to European investors must register with the new authority. It will carry out inspections on their internal governance and risk mitigation practices. If inspectors find problems, the regulator has the right to fine, sanction or even withdraw a firm's license. The initial checks are expected to start in early 2012.
This is the first time ratings agencies in Europe have been regulated. The regulator will soon get similar powers to supervise the Continent's trade repositories, institutions that collect data on opaque over-the-counter derivatives contracts.
''We're going to be knocking on rating agencies' doors to see what's been going on,'' Mr. Maijoor said.
The major ratings agencies declined to comment. A market participant familiar with the regulator's new role said the pan-European approach would help improve regulatory consistency, but expressed concerns that it could be subject to political influence.
''Right now, E.S.M.A. doesn't have direct regulatory responsibility for anything else, so the ratings agencies are being treated like guinea pigs,'' the person said.
Mr. Maijoor's agenda for next year is packed. As part of the push to increase oversight of the financial markets, the new organization has been charged by the European Commission with writing dozens of new regulations. It is the first time a pan-European institution has been given specific powers to draft rules that affect all of the Continent's markets.
The authority ''has taken on a special role because of its powers to set rules,'' said Bert Van Roosebeke, head of the financial services division at the Center for European Policy, a policy research organization based in Freiburg, Germany. ''In the future, they will want to flex their muscle to show that they're in charge.''
The organization is in the process of writing new standards for short-selling practices across Europe. The regulator has the power to ban financial products that it believes are a threat to European investors or market stability. This year, Mr. Maijoor helped to coordinate a temporary ban of short-selling in some euro zone countries.
Standards are also expected on the expanded role for clearinghouses - financial intermediaries that guarantee trades if one side defaults - and trade repositories in the over-the-counter derivatives markets. Under current proposals, derivatives contracts traded over the counter will be moved to exchanges and forced to use clearinghouses, as regulators try to increase oversight of the market.
''The flow of regulation that E.S.M.A. has to draft is a huge amount for such a small number of people,'' said Mr. Valiante of the Center for European Policy Studies. ''It's going to be very busy during 2012.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steven Maijoor leads the recently formed European Securities and Markets Authority, which is charged with financial rulemaking for 27 nations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JERRY LAMPEN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (87%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (72%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); EXTERNAL DEBT (66%); DEBT CRISIS (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (91%) ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (90%) EUROPE (97%); BELGIUM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (90%); ESTONIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1080 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: As Indonesia Grows, Discontent Sets In Among Workers

BYLINE: By SARA SCHONHARDT

 BODY:
JAKARTA -- As a flare-red sun set, a group of laborers in their 20s and 30s gathered on the bare floor of a battered house wedged beneath power lines in an industrial part of Jakarta. They were members of a confederation of multisector workers, one of the largest trade unions in Indonesia, whose slogan is ''Young, brave, militant.''
The men -- all employees of the biggest hypermarket chain in the nation, run by the French retail giant Carrefour -- said the company was violating their rights by paying them as contract workers, unprotected by strict Indonesian labor laws.
''Cheap wages and outsourcing, these are the main issues in Indonesia,'' said Abdul Rahman, a Carrefour employee and the secretary general of the union, known as Kasbi, which represents about 130,000 workers. 
He and others have been negotiating with the company for improved contracts since a strike by 1,000 workers in late August, but talks have gone nowhere. The same cycle has played out repeatedly since Carrefour entered Indonesia in 1998, said Mr. Rahman, 33, who has worked at the company for 11 years.
United by discontent, Mr. Rahman and his fellow activists are far from alone. Indonesia, the largest economy in Southeast Asia, is among the top 20 economies in the world, with growth this year of around 6 percent.
More than half of its 240 million inhabitants have entered the middle class, according to the World Bank, which defines middle class as those who spend $2 to $20 a day. Still, many of them toil for barely a living wage, offering some of the cheapest labor in Asia.
In recent years, though, this labor force has watched certain sectors grow wealthy on rising commodity prices and booming domestic demand, and increasingly, it is pushing for a greater share of company profits.
The greatest pressure has come from workers employed by Freeport-McMoRan, which is based in Arizona and controls the world's largest recoverable gold and copper reserves in Timika, in Papua Province. This month, its workers' union agreed to a 37 percent increase in wages after a three-month strike.
Affordable labor is a main reason investors are attracted to Indonesia, in part to offset wage increases in China, said Gita Wirjawan, currently the country's trade minister and formerly the head of its investment coordinating board.
But recent strikes for higher wages by mine workers and supermarket clerks, not to mention pilots of the state-owned airline, Garuda, have disrupted business operations -- and could potentially deter foreign investments.
According to the Manpower Ministry, Indonesia had 53 strikes in the first seven months of 2010, the last period for which figures are available. By comparison, in 2008 the International Labor Organization recorded five apiece in the nearby countries of Thailand and the Philippines.
Muhammad Chatib Basri, an economist at the University of Indonesia and the director of the Institute for Economic and Social Research, said that frequent and prolonged strikes reduced profit margins and competitiveness. Sluggish Indonesian industries like garment manufacturing are starting to pick up as wages rise elsewhere, he said. But if the costs of dealing with unrest and lengthy union negotiations increase, that could stem growth in a country that will depend on labor-intensive industries for productive employment for the foreseeable future.
Mr. Basri said that legally mandated high severance payments were another deterrent to investment. ''The labor law acts like a hiring tax, so many companies don't want to absorb permanent workers because if there is downsizing, they have to pay out a lot of money,'' he said.
Many companies get around that regulation by hiring contract workers, like the men of Kasbi demanding better benefits from Carrefour. But typically, big foreign concerns have a more difficult time evading the law in that way, and others, too, are facing worker unrest.
Union representatives at Freeport's large mine in Papua said they had agreed to the latest deal amid concerns about the living conditions of workers who had gone three months without pay.
Workers, who were demanding a wage increase from the lowest rate of $1.50 an hour to $7.50, had rejected Freeport's last offer of a 35 percent salary increase over two years, calling it an inadequate reflection of their contribution to company earnings. For now, the agreement appears to be a win for both sides, but Juli Parorongan, a spokesman for the Confederation of All-Indonesian Workers' Union, which represents the striking miners, said workers would continue fighting for a fairer deal.
''This is not the end of our struggle,'' he said, anticipating future problems over the welfare of workers who will remain among the lowest paid of any at Freeport's global operations.
What initially caused the strike, said Mr. Parorongan, was the realization that employees in the United States receive hourly wages 10 times greater than those of the low-level laborers at its Timika operations, which bring in around 30 percent of the company's global revenue. In 2010, Freeport's Grasberg mine in Papua brought in more than $5 billion, but losses mounted this year because of the strike and damage to pipelines caused during civil unrest.
In late October, the company suspended production to concentrate on repairing those pipelines, said a spokesman, Eric Kinneberg. He said the company was losing two million pounds of copper and 3,000 ounces of gold in daily production.
In a company statement, Richard C. Adkerson, the chief executive of Freeport, said he was pleased the parties had reached ''a mutually satisfactory resolution.'' Mr. Adkerson, who was in Jakarta to help negotiate an end to the strike, had called earlier pay demands of $30 to $200 a day ''excessive.''
The deal is likely to end months of violence at the remote, sprawling mountaintop mine -- one worker was killed in October and at least six were wounded when they clashed with the police while trying to enter the mine site. But analysts say the strike's success could encourage a fresh wave of labor disputes.
''My concern is this will trigger a domino effect,'' said Mr. Basri, of the Institute for Economic and Social Research.
''I understand there is a justification for the rise in wages,'' he said, referring to the discrepancy between Freeport's revenue and the amount it spends on workers' salaries. ''But it may trigger pressure for a rise in wages that not all companies can afford.''
Mr. Basri said there was a political element to the Freeport case that distinguished it -- the company operates in a remote region plagued by a simmering separatist movement.
But factors that galvanized the work stoppage there -- better access to information and a more sophisticated and organized labor movement -- extend to all sectors, analysts say.
''Workers in Indonesia are learning from the current situation,'' said Soeharjono, a program officer in Indonesia with the International Labor Organization. They are getting information from the Internet and spreading their messages through social networks like Facebook and Twitter.
Meanwhile, Mr. Rahman from Kasbi continues working in a Carrefour bakery, making bread for the families that Toyota, Unilever and Nestle are focusing on as sales of cars and consumer goods reach record highs in Indonesia. On his monthly earnings of $175, he cannot afford such products.
Firms outsourcing production to workers without even formal contracts are setting the stage for deeper resentment, he said.
''New employees who are young and ready to enter the work force will take whatever pay they can get,'' he said. ''But every time they negotiate a new contract, their pay drops. If we try to look for different work or move to another company, we must start the fight from the beginning.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers at Freeport-McMoRan's mine in Timika, Indonesia, agreed to a 37 percent increase in wages after a three-month strike. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUHAMMAD YAMIN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); LIVING WAGE (78%); STRIKES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); OUTSOURCING (77%); GOLD MARKETS (77%); METALS MARKETS (76%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); MINE WORKERS (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (71%); RETAILERS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); PRICE INCREASES (63%); MINES & MINING (61%); AIRLINES (60%)

COMPANY: CARREFOUR SA (92%); FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (53%)

TICKER: CRR (BIT) (92%); CA (PAR) (92%); FCX (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (92%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (92%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (92%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (92%); NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (53%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (53%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (53%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (53%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (53%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (53%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (53%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (53%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (53%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (53%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (94%) ARIZONA, USA (79%) INDONESIA (94%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); THAILAND (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1081 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Phys Ed: Slower, Perhaps, but No Less Efficient With Age

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN REYNOLDS

 BODY:
Sometimes it's good news when a study's hypothesis is not proved. That was the case, certainly, with a new study of older runners, in which researchers assumed that athletes over 60 would be noticeably less efficient than their younger counterparts.
For the experiment, published in The Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, researchers at the University of New Hampshire and other institutions recruited 51 competitive runners, ranging in age from 18 to 77. Each trained regularly and had placed in the top three in his or her age group in a local 5-kilometer or 10-kilometer road race. Their goal was to assess running economy, a measure of how much oxygen someone uses to run at a certain pace. Economical runners can continue at a given speed longer than inefficient striders, outdistancing them. 
Going into the study, the researchers had assumed that runners past age 60 would be less economical than youthful athletes, since older runners, as a group, are slower than younger ones. But as it turned out, when scientists fitted the volunteers with masks that measured their oxygen use as they ran on a treadmill and then compared the results by age group, the runners 60 and older were just as physiologically economical as younger runners, even those in their 20s and 30s.
''It was quite a surprise,'' said Timothy Quinn, a professor of exercise science at the University of New Hampshire and lead author of the study. ''Economical runners perform better than less-economical runners. And contrary to our expectations, economy did not decline with age.'' The results are encouraging for older runners, he continued, suggesting that aging lungs and leg muscles have no trouble using oxygen efficiently, and that older runners can still be fast.
Masters runners and, in particular, those 60 and older are the fastest-growing group in the sport, according to most statistics. A recent study of the New York City Marathon from 1980 to 2009, for example, found that ''the percent of finishers younger than 40 years significantly decreased, while the percent of masters runners significantly increased for both males and females,'' said Romuald Lepers, a professor of sports sciences at the University of Burgundy in France who, with his colleague Thomas Cattagni, conducted the study.
In the coming weeks, thanks to New Year's resolutions, many more of us are likely to swell the ranks of well-seasoned runners.
But science is only starting to systematically study older runners, and not everything that is being learned is encouraging. For instance, a sobering examination of running injuries, published in Current Sports Medicine Reports, found that middle-aged and older runners are much more prone to problems with Achilles tendons and hamstring and calf muscles than their whippersnapper counterparts. A possible explanation for the high rate of such injuries among the post-40 set, the study authors speculate, is that the normal muscle wear and tear ''that occurs with training seems to take greater time to repair with aging, and older runners continue running at a frequency similar to that of younger runners.''
So much for age conferring patience and wisdom.
Dr. Quinn's group, too, found that some physiological parameters did worsen with age. Older runners scored poorly on tests of upper-body strength and lower-body flexibility, both of which can affect the ability to compete.
''You need upper-body strength to pump your arms and generate power and velocity, especially on hills,'' Dr. Quinn said. Similarly, flexible tendons and muscles in the lower leg allow full, easy strides. ''We didn't measure step length,'' he said, ''but my guess is that it was shorter'' among the runners who were 60 or older. With tighter tissues, older runners are constrained to choppy strides and, in general, a slower pace.
Happily, Dr. Quinn says, these particular physical detriments can be improved. ''Older runners should try very hard to get to the gym to lift weights a few times a week,'' he said. Concentrate on exercises that build upper-body strength. The sexagenarian and older runners in his study had almost as much leg strength as younger runners, he says, but far less muscle mass, strength and power in their arms and shoulders.
Stretch occasionally after a run, too, he advises. It's not as clear that flexibility aids in running performance among older runners, he says. But to help maintain speed, ''it's probably not a bad idea to work on lower-body flexibility, especially if you used to be more flexible.''
Should you need further inspiration, consider another finding of the study of older New York City marathon racers. The researchers report that in recent years, the average finishing time for the fastest men 60 and older dropped by more than seven minutes; among older women, it plummeted by more than 16 minutes. And the improvements show no sign of slowing. Older runners ''have probably not yet reached their limits in marathon performance,'' Dr. Lepers says, which is worth bearing in mind as you set your 2012 exercise goals.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARL KEHM/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (90%); RUNNING (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS INJURIES (89%); MARATHONS (78%); WEIGHTLIFTING (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); RANKINGS (73%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (73%); WRITERS (72%); SPORTS MEDICINE (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1082 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: Million-Dollar Visas

 BODY:
The federal government's investor visa, created in 1990, gives foreigners a chance at green cards if they invest $1 million to build a business in the United States that creates at least 10 jobs. Investing in an area with high unemployment would cut that price in half. 
The program, known as EB-5, has led foreigners to invest in projects around the country, like factories, resorts, shipyards and other enterprises in designated poor areas in need of jobs. A report in The Times last week found that EB-5 applications have nearly quadrupled in two years, to more than 3,800 in the 2011 fiscal year.
But the program has spawned cynical practices that are stretching the rules and violating the spirit of the law. Some participants in New York, the report found, are pouring money into development zones that are misleadingly labeled as high-unemployment areas to qualify for the lower $500,000 investment threshold, but are not poor or underdeveloped.
For example, a $750 million office tower in the mid-Manhattan diamond district has raised 20 percent of its financing through the EB-5 program. This was made possible through a trick of mapmaking in which state officials counted the number of unemployed people in the census tract next door, which includes Times Square, to justify calling the whole area a high-unemployment zone.
Likewise, the gerrymandered lines of the development zone in Lower Manhattan near Wall Street skirt the wealthy enclaves but cross the East River to enfold a public-housing project in Brooklyn. Visa-seekers have used this district in three separate projects to qualify for the $500,000 discount.
Federal officials issue the visas but they say they have to defer to the state when it comes to drawing boundary lines. State officials say they are following the guidance of federal regulators. The surest fix would be for Congress to amend the 21-year-old law to tighten the rules to stop gerrymandering and make sure investments are steered to places that truly need development.
America has always welcomed not just immigrants seeking refuge but also those seeking and bringing prosperity. That should not happen in a way that subverts the intent of Congress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PASSPORTS & VISAS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); SHIPBUILDING (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); CENSUS (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1083 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: In Madrid's Heart, Park Blooms Where a Freeway Once Blighted

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

 BODY:
MADRID -- Even on a chilly Thursday afternoon in December, the old men, engulfed in cigar smoke and reading newspapers, were sitting around chess tables under tall pines. Nearby, a young woman had strung her line between the trunks of two mulberry trees to practice tightrope walking.
Behind her, hypnotized toddlers stared into a small oval fountain full of swirling water, and cyclists pedaled across new bridges with cement roofs that are shaped like upside-down canoes and also across a new steel forked bridge, an elegant nod to industrial-age steelwork, with a great view of the royal palace on its hill.
The park here, called Madrid Rio, has largely been finished. More than six miles long, it transforms a formerly neglected area in the middle of Spain's capital. Its creation, in four years, atop a complex network of tunnels dug to bury an intrusive highway, also rejuvenates a long-lost stretch of the Manzanares River, and in so doing knits together neighborhoods that the highway had cut off from the city center.
All around the world, highways are being torn down and waterfronts reclaimed; decades of thinking about cars and cities reversed; new public spaces created. 
Most famously, in beauty-mad San Francisco, the 1989 earthquake overcame years of entrenched thinking: the Embarcadero Freeway was taken down, which reconnected the city with its now glorious waterfront. In Seoul, the removal of a stretch of highway along the now-revived Gaecheon stream has made room for a five-mile-long recreation area called Cheonggyecheon. In Milwaukee, the destruction of the Park East freeway spur has liberated acres of downtown for parks and neighborhood development. Even the nearly-30-year, bank-busting Big Dig fiasco made Boston a better place by tunneling a downtown highway, though it was obviously nobody's idea of a stellar urban redevelopment project.
In New York, city and state officials are inching closer to tearing down the Sheridan Expressway, a mile-and-a-quarter-long gash in the South Bronx connecting the Bruckner and Cross Bronx Expressways, perhaps to replace it with homes, commercial spaces, playgrounds, swimming pools and soccer fields arrayed along the Bronx River.
But Madrid Rio is a project whose audacity and scale, following the urban renewal successes of Barcelona, Spain's civic trendsetter, can bring to a New Yorker's mind the legacy of the street-grid plan, which this year celebrates its 200th anniversary. That's because the park belongs to a larger transformation that includes the construction of dozens of new metro and light-rail stations that link far-flung, disconnected and often poor districts on Madrid's outskirts to downtown.
On my way from the park one day I came across Marisa Alvarez, a physical therapist, who told me that her commute from Mostoles, a sprawling, hard-hit suburb to the southwest of the city, took nearly an hour and a half each way before the new metro arrived. Now, it's 45 minutes. The metro had changed her daily life, she said.
''This is like new lungs for us,'' is how Pilar Lopez described what the new park has changed in hers. At 73, she said she has lived for more than a half-century in an apartment in a housing project nearby, suffering the fumes and noise from the highway.
''When the highway was here, I sat on my sofa and watched television all day,'' she told me. ''Now I feel healthy again because I walk with my friends in the park for hours.''
During the 1970s, the M-30, a ring road constructed along both sides of the river, ripped a crippling gash through the city. Neighborhoods on both sides of it declined. Tourists had little or no clue this area of town even existed, and most Madrilenos avoided it, save for trips to the soccer stadium of Atletico Madrid or along the highway, which turned into an infamous bottleneck.
That was then. Two centuries back, Goya painted bucolic picnickers in shaded pastures above the Manzanares. After decades of the highway, they're returning.
The park is still a work in progress. A stretch of highway has yet to be moved underground, and the soccer stadium needs to be torn down. The whole place, in barren weather, anyway, has a slightly rough-and-ready air, which is what you would expect, considering that Alberto Ruiz-Gallardon, the city's populist mayor (who has just been named Spain's justice minister), a conservative, ordered the burying of the M-30 before there was any plan for a park.
Only several years after construction on the tunnels had begun in 2003, with the inevitable traffic snarls provoking a political firestorm, did the city organize a competition. Various big-name architects proposed erecting flashy buildings. The winner was a group of local architects, led by Gines Garrido, who teamed up with Adriaan Geuze and his high-profile Dutch urban design and landscape firm, West 8.
They proposed no grand new time-consuming, budget-breaking monuments, but a suite of modest new bridges, along with the renovation of some great historic ones, amid a variety of green spaces. The park was to be generally informal, low-key and practical, in certain respects more American than European, full of playgrounds and ball fields and bike paths.
Most important, it would be constructed in stages. Every month another section could be rolled out. The mayor wanted to stand with grateful citizens in front of news cameras in the first section of the park before re-election day in 2007. He did. Public grumbling about traffic jams gradually morphed into praise for a new green space.
Of course Madrid is now just about broke, and Mr. Gallardon's opponents point to his civic improvements as one cause. They were indeed expensive, albeit a fraction of what the costs would have been in America. Pilar Martinez, who oversaw the park project in the mayor's office, told me that the official price tag of Madrid Rio hovers near $5 billion, all but $500 million of it spent to bury the highway. Twenty-seven miles of new tunnels were dug; countless tons of granite installed to make paths and fountains; some 8,000 pine trees planted. A new, elegantly simple boathouse has been designed, and a 19th-century complex of brick and glass buildings, including a derelict slaughterhouse and greenhouse, are now being renovated to house art studios and a dance theater.
Add to this wading pools for toddlers that landlocked Madrid parents already fondly call ''the beach,'' and a paved plaza, in patterned tiles, large enough to fit a few hundred thousand people.
New York has recently benefited from the growth and upgrading of its own parks, but much of the city's expanding public realm is now dependent on private investment. At the epicenter of laissez-faire capitalism, a skepticism about big government, a web of well-meaning regulations and opposition groups empowered by easy access to the courts combine to create barriers to the investment of public money in major infrastructural improvements. Change happens slowly and incrementally, certainly compared with what Madrid has accomplished.
The sort of visionary will that produced W.P.A. projects from which the country continues to benefit seems almost anachronistic. It takes the rare political strongman, like Mayor Richard M. Daley of Chicago, to push through something big and great that is entirely for the public, like Millennium Park, 24.5 downtown acres of cultural attractions risen largely from rail yards and parking lots. (And the State of Illinois is now contemplating a 140,000-acre park, potentially the largest urban park in America, on underused and post-industrial land on Chicago's southern edge, but for the moment it's just an idea.)
Like Millennium Park, Madrid Rio needed no commercial justification, though it is clearly a boon to business and development. It arises from a political culture that presumes public service is an end in itself.
''Now people who opened their windows onto the sound of cars, open their windows onto the sound of birds,'' is how Ms. Martinez, the Madrid official, put it. It's only a pity that the city also awarded Dominique Perrault, one of the celebrity architects who lost the competition, a late commission. Evidently nervous about leaving the project without a new architectural landmark, the government approved his costly design for an oversize footbridge. Wrapped in an immense, incongruous spiral of Mr. Perrault's signature stainless-steel mesh, the striking bridge blocks views and conjures up some giant antenna that has crashed in the park.
That said, a decade ago, bringing back the Manzanares River and the neighborhoods around it sounded impossible. As Madrid Rio proves, the question for big public projects should not be what can't be done.
No. It's what can.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Madrid Rio park has transformed a neglected area in the middle of the Spanish capital. (A1)
Madrid Rio restored a stretch of the Manzanares River, knitting together neighborhoods that had been cut off from the city center.
The Arganzuela Bridge. Grumbling about traffic jams from the park's construction gave way to praise for a new green space.
 The park was designed to be informal, low-key and practical, in certain respects more American than European. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES RAJOTTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); CHILDREN (77%); SUBURBS (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (71%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (50%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (69%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) SPAIN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1084 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1559 words

HEADLINE: Power in a Nascent Industry

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
GUANGZHOU, China -- Three years ago, as part of its green-energy policy, the Chinese government set an ambitious goal: by the end of 2011, the nation would be able to produce at least 500,000 hybrid or all-electric cars and buses a year.
With only about a week to go, it is clear China will fall far short of that target. Despite dozens of electric-vehicle demonstration projects around the country, analysts put China's actual annual production capacity at only several thousand hybrid and all-electric cars and buses.
''It's pretty trivial at this stage -- they hardly sell any,'' said Lin Huaibin, the manager of China vehicle sales forecasts at IHS Automotive, a global consulting firm.
Obstacles include continued technological hurdles, disputes over technology transfers by multinational automakers, and a broad wariness by the Chinese public regarding alternative-technology cars. 
But it would be shortsighted to count out China's electric car efforts just yet. Only a few months ago Prime Minister Wen Jiabao called for Beijing to create a new ''road map'' for energy-saving vehicles.
Unlike in other nations, where automakers are leading the push for electric vehicles, in China the effort is being led largely by one of the country's most powerful industries -- the state-run electric companies that operate the national power grid. With China expected to surpass the United States in the number of all vehicles on the road by as early as 2020, the government-run utilities see it as their job to provide an alternative to imported oil as a way to power several hundred million cars, trucks and buses.
This month in this sprawling southern industrial city, for example, the giant China Southern Power Grid company opened a sales and service center for electric cars.
The new three-story building, resembling a giant lizard egg of lime-green glass, is a showcase for technology supplied by Better Place, a start-up based in Palo Alto, Calif. Under the Better Place business model, customers do not recharge their electric cars but instead periodically stop at an electric filling station to swap their nearly depleted batteries for freshly charged ones.
And just because there are no customers kicking the tires now doesn't mean China Southern Grid, as it is commonly known, isn't in the electric-vehicle game for the long haul. The power company and Better Place are in talks to sell electric cars to the Guangzhou municipal government and to taxi fleets, according to Shai Agassi, Better Place's founder and chief executive.
The demonstration project showcases imported Renault Laguna sedans and Nissan Dualis crossover utility vehicles whose gasoline-fueled power trains have been replaced with electric motors and swappable batteries. But the companies are in talks with Chinese automakers to produce battery-powered cars, for which no price has been set.
In a separate bet, meanwhile, China Southern Grid has also built recharging stations in another big southern industrial city, Shenzhen, for electric buses and cars made by a Chinese automaker, BYD, which has Warren E. Buffett among its investors.
Though automakers in other countries have supplied charging equipment to be installed at homes and parking lots, China's power industry has already made it clear that it wants to dictate when and how plug-in gasoline-electric hybrids and all-electric cars are charged, by owning the charging equipment and setting technical standards.
''It is more and more difficult to manage the grid; we need more flexibility,'' by controlling how cars are recharged, said Zhang Diansheng, the deputy general manager of China Southern Grid.
After initially seeking to leapfrog Japan and the West by moving straight from internal combustion engines to cars powered only by batteries, Chinese policy makers are now paying more attention to hybrids that combine gasoline engines with electric motors. (As battery-fire problems with the Chevrolet Volt in the United States have recently indicated, technical problems still bedevil electric automotive technology.)
Even some of the Chinese companies like BYD that have bet most heavily on all-electric cars are now investing in plug-in hybrid cars that have gasoline engines as well as batteries.
''More and more companies are certainly going to do it like this,'' Wang Chuanfu, BYD's founder and chairman, said in an interview at his company's headquarters in Shenzhen. But he quickly added, ''there is still tremendous potential in the Chinese market for electric cars.''
Some of the obstacles that have slowed deployment of all-electric cars in China also exist in other markets. The cars' range, less than 200 miles even under ideal conditions, falls steeply in cold weather, if the air-conditioner is turned on or if the car was not fully charged overnight.
''I'm not interested in them -- I worry I'd run out of electricity and get stuck,'' said Mu Zhongbao, a 31-year-old businessman who paid the equivalent of $130,000 for an Audi Q7 minivan on a recent afternoon here at one of the many dealerships near the Better Place site.
Southern China Grid's Better Place demonstration project indicates that powerful interests in China still back the development of all-electric cars.
''I see the Chinese fully committed on a path toward electric vehicles -- the time frame may shift, the volume numbers may shift,'' said Raymond Bierzynski, the executive director of electrification strategy at General Motors China.
Some executives say that China has fallen behind its schedule for hybrid and all-electric cars because it has put heavy pressure on multinationals to transfer technology to their Chinese partners to be eligible for generous subsidies for the sale of alternative-energy vehicles in China. Some foreign manufacturers have responded by withholding some of their latest models from the Chinese market -- as Nissan has with the electric Leaf.
G.M. has put the Volt on sale in China, despite the Chinese government's decision to make it ineligible for renewable energy subsidies of up to $19,300 per car. That is because G.M. has not transferred enough of the technology to satisfy Beijing, although G.M. did agree this autumn to share some electric technology in the coming years.
''By forcing foreign technology sources into a junior role, that's going to significantly slow the development of the technology in China,'' said Bill Russo, a former auto executive who oversaw the Chinese and Korean markets for Chrysler and is now an industry consultant in Beijing.
But the betting in China is that China Southern Grid and another big grid operator, the State Grid Corporation, and their allies among the country's five main electricity generation companies have much more influence in Beijing than the auto industry.
The Chinese auto industry was tiny until the last decade, and very few of its executives have wound up in senior government positions. By contrast, specializing in electric power has long been a path to the top of the Chinese Communist Party for leaders like Li Peng, the former premier.
And as long as the electric companies are influential, all-battery cars may hold the political edge over hybrids.
But what is not clear is which of three experimental approaches to recharging will eventually dominate the field: the so-called fast charging of vehicle batteries at recharging centers; overnight charging options at homes and parking lots; or battery swapping a la Better Place.
Meantime, World Trade Organization rules are also influencing how China approaches electric cars, said a Chinese official close to the decision-making who insisted on anonymity because he was not authorized to publicly discuss transportation policy.
The government wants to build an electric car industry that can export vehicles all over the world. But it does not want to someday face W.T.O. trade complaints from other countries that might accuse China of violating free-trade export rules by subsidizing the industry's development. With China having raised trade tensions with the United States earlier this month by slapping additional tariffs on a range of American imported autos, Beijing may need to tread more carefully than ever.
The most promising trade strategy for China to avoid legal pitfalls might be for the government first to subsidize the development of a network of charging stations for electric buses and other municipal vehicles, the Chinese official said. Mass transit subsidies are hard to challenge at the W.T.O. because they involve an almost purely domestic government service.
The bus recharging stations, and the lessons learned in building them, might then be used in a more extensive network of electric car recharging stations. Subsidizing the charging stations could help make electric cars more affordable, and in turn help Chinese automakers achieve economies of scale in their home market that would help them build up an export business.
Already BYD is expanding its annual capacity to manufacture all-electric buses -- 1,000 this year, up from 500 last year and with a target of 5,000 next year.
Mr. Agassi of Better Place predicted China would become a large-scale maker of electric cars and then start exporting them. ''This is the fork-in-the-road moment'' for China, Mr. Agassi said. ''You get to a trade deficit on oil imports, or you get to a trade surplus with a lot of car exports.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Charging an electric car, top, at the China Southern Power Grid center in Guangzhou, China. Above, watching a battery replacement. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FORBES CONRAD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (92%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); SEDANS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (76%); PLANT CAPACITY (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); GAS STATIONS (68%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (68%); CITIES (62%); CITY GOVERNMENT (62%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (50%)

COMPANY: CHINA SOUTHERN POWER GRID CO LTD (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (65%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (65%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGZHOU, CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%) SOUTH CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1085 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
FISCAL CRISIS TAKES TOLL
ON HEALTH OF GREEKS
In the last two years, the Greek nation's creditors have pushed hard for drastic cost savings to cut back the deficit. These measures have left public hospitals lacking personnel and supplies, and many citizens without care. Page A4
ARRESTS IN NIGERIA ATTACK 
As Nigerian officials announced arrests in connection with the deadly bombing of a church on Christmas Day, American officials said the violence underscored the increasing ability of a shadowy Islamist insurgency to carry out complex strikes against multiple targets. Page A7
KIM IN SOUTH KOREA
Kim Jong-un, the new leader of North Korea, met with a private delegation of prominent South Koreans, his first face-to-face encounter with any visitors from the South since assuming the top spot a week ago. Page A7
RESPONSE FAULTED IN JAPAN
From inspectors' abandoning of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant as it succumbed to disaster to a delay in disclosing radiation leaks, Japan's response to the nuclear accident caused by the March tsunami fell tragically short, a government-appointed investigative panel said. Page A8
National
CIVIC ORGANIST SURVIVES
TO WELCOME ANOTHER YEAR
Facing serious budget deficits, San Diego officials considered eliminating the one-of-a-kind job of playing a 96-year-old organ, which had been on the city payroll for nearly a century, but civic pride drowned out such talk. The city chips in about $30,000 toward the $56,000 salary of the organist, who plays free concerts each Sunday afternoon. Page A11
DELAYING POLITICAL STRUGGLE
When Congress handily passed a bill to set payroll tax rates, jobless benefits and Medicare doctors' fees for the next two months, it seemed to end an epic political struggle between President Obama and Republicans on Capitol Hill. But every issue in dispute remains unresolved, waiting to be addressed when Congress returns next month. Page A12
New York
COMPTROLLER DISPLAYS CALM
AMID U.S. INVESTIGATION
By most accounts, John C. Liu, once considered a top contender for mayor in 2013, has been badly damaged by the federal investigation into whether illegal donations were funneled into his campaign treasury. But one would never know it watching him go about his days. Page A14
Business
EFFORTS TO TIE NEW DRUGS
TO TESTING FOR BEST USE
It is often not enough for pharmaceutical companies simply to bring a drug to market. Regulators and insurers are also prodding the companies to develop tests to pinpoint which patients are most likely to benefit from a drug, thereby sparing other patients from needless side effects and expense. Page B1
POWER IN A NASCENT INDUSTRY
Three years ago, as part of its green-energy policy, the Chinese government set an ambitious goal: by the end of 2011, the nation would be able to produce at least 500,000 hybrid or all-electric cars and buses a year. With only about two weeks to go, it is clear China will fall far short of that target. Page B1
Sports
TEETERING JETS LAMENT LACK
OF BALANCE ON OFFENSE
In a season that Rex Ryan called disappointing even before his team lost its last game to the Giants, the Jets have eight wins and seven losses, an achievement unlikely to produce a playoff berth. That is the harshest judgment there is in the N.F.L., and one that is likely to carry certain consequences. Page B7
Arts
THE NAME IS DISTINCTIVE,
BUT THE ROLE IS GENERIC
Nickelodeon, beset by tumbling ratings, is betting that its forthcoming series, ''How to Rock,'' has an extra ingredient that can propel it beyond TV into a full-blown pop culture phenomenon: Cymphonique Miller. Page C1
Science
SCIENCE AND CENSORSHIP:
A DUEL LASTING CENTURIES
When a federal panel asked two journals last week to withhold details on bird flu experiments, it was only the latest example of an ages-old conflict often rooted in issues of war and advanced weaponry. Page D1
NEW M.S. DRUGS RAISE HOPE
After decades of basic research on multiple sclerosis, the last five years have brought a rapid rollout of new and sophisticated drugs that are changing how the disease is managed and offering patients new hope. Page D5
Obituaries
ANDREW GELLER, 87
He was an architect who embodied postwar ingenuity and optimism in a series of inexpensive beach houses in whimsical shapes, many of them in the Hamptons, and who helped bring modernism to the masses with prefabricated cottages sold at Macy's. Page A17
OP-ED
Joe Nocera PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (87%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (85%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (73%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (73%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); HOSPITALS (72%); ARRESTS (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); BOMBINGS (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); POWER PLANTS (68%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (68%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (68%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); CORPORATE TAX (63%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (60%); INSURANCE (60%); CHRISTMAS (56%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); KIM JONG UN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%) NIGERIA (94%); JAPAN (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1086 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: Markets Rise While Dollar Loses Ground

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Among the stock markets that were open worldwide on Monday, most climbed, while the dollar maintained losses against higher-yielding peers amid speculation that the United States economy would continue to recover. 
Benchmark equity gauges in Japan, India, Russia and Brazil rose 0.1 percent or more, while many financial markets were closed for Christmas and Boxing Day observations.
The dollar weakened 0.2 percent against the euro, to $1.3074. The Chinese renminbi hit 6.3160 to a dollar, the strongest level since 1993, on speculation that Chinese policy makers would tolerate appreciation to stem capital outflows.
Reports on Tuesday will detail home prices in 20 United States cities, and forecasts suggest that the pace of price declines slowed further. Other recent data point to an American economy that is slowly regaining its strength. Consumer confidence is projected to have risen to a five-month high, and data last week showed durable goods orders jumped in November by the most in four months, while sales of new homes increased to a seven-month high.
''The U.S. economy is improving more than expected,'' said Hideyuki Ishiguro, assistant manager at the investment strategy department at Okasan Securities in Tokyo. ''Pessimism is easing among American consumers due to a recovery in the job market and some stability in the stock market.''
About four shares advanced for every three that declined on Monday on the MSCI global benchmark index, helping that gauge extend its 3.1 percent advance from last week.
The Bovespa index in Brazil slid 0.1 percent after economists cut their 2011 forecasts for a fifth straight week. The IPC in Mexico rose 0.5 percent. In Japan, the Nikkei 225 added 1 percent, and the BSE India Sensitive index jumped 1.5 percent. The Micex index in Russia gained 1 percent.
The Bloomberg GCC 200 index of Persian Gulf shares rose less than 0.1 percent, while the TA-25 index in Israel gained 0.7 percent.
In the United States, property values most likely dropped 3.2 percent in October compared with the same month in 2010, the smallest year-over-year decrease since January, according to the median forecast of 20 economists before a report on the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller indexes.
Consumer confidence is predicted to have climbed to a five-month high of 58.6 in December, from 56 last month, a separate survey showed before a report on Tuesday from the Conference Board.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); DURABLE GOODS (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); CHRISTMAS (71%); BOXING DAY (71%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (70%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); EURO (56%)

COMPANY: OKASAN SECURITIES GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: 8609 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) INDIAN OCEAN (58%) UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (93%); JAPAN (93%); INDIA (93%); CHINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); ISRAEL (79%); GULF STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1087 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; GOTHAM; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: An Unusual Straight Talker Is Back in Good Voice and Looking at City Hall

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL. 
e-mail: powellm@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Long ago, as a young reporter in the depths of the 1991 recession, I was assigned to cover the release of the mayor's management report, that bible of all things municipal.
Buildings inspected? Library hours expanded? Foster care caseloads growing? The four-inch-thick report measured successes and failures. A half-dozen other reporters and I trooped into the mayor's operations office for a briefing, expecting to be spun like reportorial tops.
Then the operations director, Harvey Robins, started talking and I recognized myself as a fool. A bearded and profane municipal monk who once spent months riding garbage trucks to measure services, he believed deeply that a well-managed government could soften New York's hard edges. 
Constitutionally incapable of sugarcoating, he pointed to police overtime. ''The commissioner uses the grease to run his department, but can't he spread it more thinly?''
What about that agency where private contractors were supposed to compete with union workers? ''The commissioner,'' he said, ''folded like a cheap rug in humid weather.''
Because reporters can be nature's cynics, we asked: Are the stats cooked? ''Not only didn't we cook them,'' he replied, ''this year we didn't even put them in the oven.'' His eyebrows hiked, chest heaving with laughter.
You dearly want to avoid the trap of assuming that all looked better long ago. Fine public servants enter government every year. But candor of the skin-peeling Harvey Robins sort is ever diminishing. Mayor Edward I. Koch graded his commissioners and handed out C's alongside A's; Dinkins officials wrestled publicly with frustrations.
''First Deputy Mayor Norman Steisel told me to talk with the press to generate better questions,'' Mr. Robins recalls. ''It affirms government to give the good, the bad and the ugly.''
No more. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo too often view talk of failure as an ice bath to be avoided. Their default position is triumphalism. This is the antithesis of Mr. Robins, who after years of working for a private foundation is unfettered again, free to speak his mind.
Born in Brooklyn, he says his parents ''hijacked me to Long Island at the age of 8.'' He entered the Koch administration and arrived at its social welfare agency as AIDS became a raging killer. He was desperate to hire caseworkers. A budget official refused and said, these patients are dying anyway.
Mr. Robins swallowed rage and used sleight of hand to ''self-fund.'' ''I figured if I can't find enough money,'' he recalled, ''my budget training was no good.'' Hundreds of AIDS patients received care. At year's end he met with Mr. Koch and confessed. The mayor embraced him.
Later, he worked for Richard R. Green, the schools chancellor, a charismatic leader who died too young of asthma. Could you, the chancellor asked, tell me how many work at the 110 Livingston Street headquarters? It was a question out of municipal mythology; the place was a sinkhole of jobs real and imaginary. Mr. Robins instituted a desk audit. ''I said, 'No desk, no paycheck.' ''
It saved millions, which got plowed back into schools.
For Mayor David N. Dinkins, he turned schools into community centers at night, removed thousands of abandoned cars and tires from parks, and hired former welfare recipients, and the city won national awards for innovation.
Mr. Robins, who has a Ph.D. in public administration, had a career plan: he intended to die at his city desk. But when Rudolph W. Giuliani and his crowd took office in 1994, he left. The ensuing eight years constituted his proudest moment. As Mr. Giuliani cowed Democrats and civic leaders into silence, Mr. Robins remained a trenchant critic.
Real income was falling, unemployment was high and Mr. Giuliani did not demand enough in productivity givebacks from unions. Pointing to thickets of statistics, Mr. Robins called for higher taxes on the rich, crackdowns on public authorities and an end to the pension tricks of uniformed employees.
''If we are going to judge the city on how well the people are doing in terms of quality of service and economics, we're failing miserably,'' Mr. Robins said at the time.
I recall phoning an academic. He excoriated Mr. Giuliani but advised that if I wanted this on the record, I should call Mr. Robins. It was disheartening and reaffirming.
A few years ago, Mr. Robins muffled his voice to work at a fine foundation. I felt the loss of honest quotations. That job just ended; this is the city's gain.
As we talk in a Midtown diner, Mr. Robins taps folders thick with numbers. He credits Mr. Bloomberg with pushing for congestion pricing and extending the No. 7 subway line. He applauds the health crusades. The high-tech campus on Roosevelt Island, he says, is genius.
And yet he wonders: Why does the mayor defend Wall Street's ''looters in loafers'' who give so little back? What of higher taxes for the 1 percent? Why not shake awake labor leaders who preserve the sinecures of their least inspired workers rather than ask them to work harder to create a better city?
''I wish Mike was as concerned about wage theft for deliverymen as about the attire of cabdrivers and the noise from the Mister Softee truck,'' he says. ''It's good to know the rating of a restaurant, but if you oppose mandatory sick days, waitresses come to work sick.
''Our city,'' he says, ''has to become more than a trading post.''
Might he return to city employ? He shakes his head; I am not convinced. His beard and hair are in rapid transit between gray and white, but his fires are not banked.
In graduate school, his professors spoke of public service. ''They told us to be comfortable with grade deferral,'' he said. ''Sometimes change doesn't come for decades.''
That struck him as reasonable.
''It doesn't matter if it happens on your watch,'' he said. ''Will it happen in your shadow?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Harvey Robins, a former city official, is again able to talk candidly. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); BUDGETS (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); OVERTIME (77%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); AIDS & HIV (67%); FOUNDATIONS (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); ANDREW CUOMO (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1088 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: Israeli TV Station's Struggle Reflects a Wider Political War

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- An Israeli television station reported last spring on numerous trips Benjamin Netanyahu had taken as an elected official to Paris, London and New York before becoming prime minister in 2009. Accompanied by his wife, he flew first class and stayed in baronial hotel suites. Mrs. Netanyahu had her hair styled and her wardrobe dry-cleaned. The bills, displayed on screen, were paid for by wealthy friends.
Traveling in luxury at the expense of others may violate public service rules and the law. It also doesn't look good. But instead of accolades for its journalism, Channel 10 is now fighting for its life, and Mr. Netanyahu's hostility toward it is being cast as part of a broader cultural and political war in Israel between the left and the right involving efforts to control the judiciary, the reporting of news and public discourse.
It is a battle that most immediately pits the rightist governing coalition against the liberal elite as the government refuses to postpone the station's debt, which could force it to close. 
''The fight over Channel 10 is partly a matter of revenge -- Netanyahu wants to make them pay for what they did to him,'' argued Nachman Shai, a member of Parliament from the opposition party Kadima and a former news executive who helped set up Channel 10 a decade ago. ''But it is also part of a three-front struggle -- over the courts, civil society and the media. The right wants to control every institution. Freedom of expression is at risk.''
Those around Mr. Netanyahu, who filed a million-dollar libel suit against the station, say Channel 10 is a failed business whose payments have been forgiven numerous times and is hiding behind political complaints and inflated concerns about free speech to make the public absorb its debts.
On its face, the request by Channel 10 is modest. It owes $11 million, most of it to an official regulatory body, the rest in taxes. Ayelet Metzger, deputy director general of the regulatory body, said both her agency and the Finance Ministry had agreed to postpone the debt for a year.
But a parliamentary committee this month voted against doing so. Mr. Netanyahu's coalition obliged its members to vote no. This means that Channel 10 will, in theory, shut its doors at the end of January, when its 10-year franchise ends.
In practice, there will be a drawn-out battle to save it because of the belief that it plays a vital role in public debate through its crusading investigative news broadcasts. The only other independent station is Channel 2, which is also facing economic woes.
Otherwise, Mr. Netanyahu has strong influence over other media outlets: the state-owned Channel 1, State Radio and a freely distributed and successful newspaper, Yisrael Hayom, owned by a close American friend, the billionaire Sheldon Adelson.
President Shimon Peres, a member of Kadima, has weighed in, saying that the channel's effort to survive is ''a struggle for Israel's democratic character.'' In a related comment, he also declared himself ''ashamed'' of several bills being considered in Parliament that he believes chip away at democracy in Israel: an antidefamation law, one that silences loudspeakers issuing the Muslim call to prayer and another that prevents foreign governments from financing left-wing Israeli groups.
Last summer, Parliament passed a law making it possible to sue anyone who advocates boycotting things Israeli, including West Bank settlements.
Channel 10 infuriated the Netanyahus over the reports of lavish travel, when he was a member of Parliament and as finance minister, and spurred a continuing investigation by the state comptroller. But the channel also angered previous leaders, playing a key role in exposing the way the 2006 Lebanon war was conducted and publicizing suspicions of corrupt land deals in the family of former Prime Minister Ariel Sharon.
It brought to the screen the fate of a Palestinian doctor in Gaza whose three daughters were killed in the 2008-2009 offensive there by Israeli forces, and showed a minister from the nationalist party Yisrael Beiteinu arriving at the home of a woman suspected to be his mistress and leaving the house the next morning.
''I believe that if we die, the message will be clear that if you have the guts to open a critical news company, you will go bankrupt,'' said Raviv Drucker, the station's chief investigative reporter, who broke the story of Mr. Netanyahu's travels.
An executive of Channel 10 who spoke on the condition of anonymity said that he had been told by a top aide of Mr. Netanyahu that if Mr. Drucker were given a long vacation, postponing the debt would be a lot easier. Mr. Netanyahu's office said no such conversation had occurred.
In previous years, Mr. Netanyahu actually intervened to save Channel 10 twice because, he said, he favors increasing broadcast outlets to expand the marketplace of ideas and debate. The Israeli news media, he and his aides complain, lean to the left and what the country needs is an Israeli version of Fox News.
Some say that is what Mr. Netanyahu thought he was helping to create when about five years ago he persuaded his friend, the American billionaire Ronald S. Lauder, to invest in the ailing Channel 10. But the structure of the channel makes it hard for owners to intervene in content.
Nonetheless, after the broadcast on Mr. Netanyahu's travels was shown, the prime minister cooled his friendship with Mr. Lauder. Mr. Lauder declined to comment.
Another owner of the channel is the Hollywood producer Arnon Milchan. The third and largest shareholder is Yossi Meiman, an Israeli political liberal who has faced financial difficulties because of his investment in a gas pipeline from Egypt that has been repeatedly blown up since the Egyptian revolution.
Amnon Dankner, former editor of the newspaper Maariv and a veteran journalist, said that the threat to Channel 10 worried him deeply.
''For the first time, I fear the end of critical and investigative news as we have known it in Israel,'' he said. ''If Channel 10 closes, Channel 2 will grow tamer. Since childhood I have felt that freedom of the press was marching forward here. Now I feel it is retreating.''
But other journalists say the only thing that has changed is who is in power. Prime ministers from the Labor Party like David Ben-Gurion, Golda Meir and Yitzhak Rabin also held the press tightly, meeting with senior editors regularly.
''When the prime minister was 'one of us,' it seemed totally natural for him to silence his critics,'' Ari Shavit, a columnist for the newspaper Haaretz, wrote in Thursday's issue. ''After 30 years of the media running roughshod over Likud, Likud is tyrannizing the media.''
Nahum Barnea, the main political columnist for the newspaper Yediot Aharonot, said that while the Channel 10 problem was about a failed business, it was part of the struggle for control of public discourse in Parliament.
''Many of the proposed laws have a common denominator,'' he said. ''People in the coalition think it is time for them to change the rules -- the rules regarding the Palestinians, the Arab sector in Israel, the left and the media. The Channel 10 story is part of that. And if we are left with only one commercial channel, we will be a weaker democracy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jacob Eilon, evening news anchor of Channel 10 in Israel, preparing for a broadcast. The station is struggling to stay in business. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RINA CASTELNUOVO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); POLITICS (77%); LIBERALISM (74%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (73%); LIBEL & SLANDER (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); LITIGATION (69%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (67%)

ORGANIZATION: KADIMA (55%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (89%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) ISRAEL (96%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1089 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Dealing With China's Troubles

 BODY:
China's economy seems to be in trouble, which could be a very big problem for the world unless China's leaders and trading partners ensure that economic strains in the world's largest exporting nation do not lead to trade confrontations around the globe. 
China's housing bubble appears to be imploding, steel production is falling along with the demand for new construction and real estate developers are tottering, putting banks at risk. The Chinese government, which had been trying to curtail credit to slow the bubble's rise, abruptly changed course last month, reducing the amount of money banks must keep in reserve at the central bank for the first time since 2008. On top of everything else, foreign demand for Chinese exports has slowed.
A hard landing in China would have an immediate impact from Brazil to Russia, whose exports of steel, lumber and other commodities fed China's construction boom. And it will slow the world economy, which relies on China as one of the only remaining engines of growth.
But the bigger risk could be a trade war. Chinese leaders eager to hang on to power by showing continued economic growth may be tempted to pursue beggar-thy-neighbor strategies and subsidize exports in ways that would further destabilize a fragile world economy already buffeted by a crisis in Europe.
There are worrying signs that Beijing is going the wrong way. Earlier this month, it imposed a volley of duties against American-made sport utility vehicles. It will have little economic importance as few of these vehicles are sold in China. But analysts viewed the move as a warning that China will retaliate against Washington's efforts to combat its subsidized exports. And the pace of appreciation of China's currency has slowed markedly.
The Obama administration must also act with care. It is justified in challenging illegal trade practices, including pursuing its case at the World Trade Organization against illegal subsidies of Chinese makers of solar panels. But it should act multilaterally, including mustering other countries to add to the pressure on Beijing to act by the rules. Unilateral initiatives, like those in Congress to punish China for its cheap currency, are likely to cause more harm than good.
The ball is, however, in China's court. Beijing must understand that it is a bad idea to double-down on an export-led strategy. There are better alternatives, including sensible stimulus measures like investing in low-income housing and expanding government-run health insurance. These would boost consumer spending and growth, reducing China's dependence on export markets and investment bubbles. A policy switch like this would stimulate global growth. Sticking to the old game plan will drag the world down.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); EXPORT PROMOTION (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (76%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (71%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); TRADE DISPUTES (69%); SOLAR ENERGY (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (62%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1090 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: Law to Find Tax Evaders Denounced

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY and BRIAN KNOWLTON; Mia Li contributed research.

 BODY:
Legislation meant to help the United States government locate overseas assets of American tax cheats created little stir when it was quietly slipped into a jobs bill last year.
But the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, or Fatca, as it is known, is now causing alarm among businesses outside the United States that fear they will have to spend billions of dollars a year to meet the greatly increased reporting burdens, starting in 2013. American expatriates also say the new filing demands are daunting and overblown.
''Congress came in with a sledgehammer,'' said H. David Rosenbloom, a lawyer at Caplin and Drysdale in Washington and a former international tax policy adviser for the Treasury Department. ''The Fatca story is really kind of insane.''
Congress created the act after the Justice Department's successful pursuit in 2009 of UBS that resulted in the Swiss bank -- which had encouraged American citizens to set up secret offshore accounts -- paying $780 million and turning over client details to avoid criminal prosecution. 
The law is meant to ensure Americans cannot use hidden trusts overseas to evade taxes, a goal that is widely applauded. But critics say that it amounts to gross legislative overreach, and that the $8 billion the Treasury expects to reap in taxes owed over 10 years pales next to the costs it will impose on foreign institutions. Those entities are being asked, in effect, to pay for the cost of tracking down American tax evaders.
The law demands that virtually every financial firm outside the United States and any foreign company in which Americans are beneficial owners must register with the Internal Revenue Service, check existing accounts in search of Americans and annually declare their compliance.
Noncompliance would be punished with a withholding charge of up to 30 percent on any income and capital payments the company gets from the United States. Under the law, for example, if Deutsche Bank, having agreed to register with the United States authorities in compliance with the law, were to transfer $25 million to a noncompliant Polish bank, Deutsche Bank would be required to withhold part of that sum, transferring it to the I.R.S. The Polish recipient would then have the option of challenging that withholding by filing an American tax return, claiming the money, despite not being an American citizen.
In practice, tax experts say costs like that might drive the Polish bank out of business.
''They're trying to force every financial institution in the world to sign onto this regime,'' said Denise Hintzke, who heads the global tax compliance initiative at Deloitte in New York.
Financial institutions outside the United States also say that the law's costs will be imposed overwhelmingly on them, giving a competitive advantage to United States rivals.
The European Banking Association estimates that its members would have to pay at least $10 to vet each existing account plus overhaul data systems and procedures.
In Japan, where savers often maintain several small accounts, only a tiny minority of the 800 million total accounts are held by Americans. The Japanese Bankers Association has said that manual verification of each account would be ''extremely burdensome.''
The Treasury and I.R.S. say that they are addressing the concerns of Japanese and other institutions and that electronic screening, not manual checks, will be acceptable for most types of accounts.
The I.R.S., under pressure from angry and confused financial officials abroad, has extended the deadline for registration until June 30, 2013, and is struggling to provide more detailed guidance by the end of this year.
But beginning in 2012, many American expatriates -- already the only developed-nation citizens subject to double taxation from their home government -- must furnish the I.R.S. with detailed personal information on their overseas assets.
American Citizens Abroad, an advocacy group, estimates the new form will add three hours to tax preparation. Considering that the law provides harsh penalties for even unintentional errors, the organization says it is ''simply not realistic for a vast swath of the normally law-abiding filer community unable to afford the expensive services of a professional tax adviser.''
Even with the new requirement, American expatriates must continue reporting their foreign financial assets to the Treasury Department, meaning they will be reporting twice, to different arms of the government, according to different standards.
''The Fatca legislation treats all Americans with overseas bank accounts as criminals, even though most of them are honest, hard-working individuals who happen to be living and working or retired abroad,'' said Jacqueline Bugnion, a director of American Citizens Abroad.
United States officials say that in the final version of the law, to be released next summer, the pursuit of information will not be quite as expansive as some fear.
''Searches of the predominant number of pre-existing accounts will be electronic,'' Manal S. Corwin, deputy assistant secretary of the Treasury for international tax affairs, said during a recent interview.
More extensive searches will be conducted mainly in the case of private banks, or individuals holding assets exceeding $500,000, she said, though the details are still being worked out. Ms. Corwin said the United States would not be asking any institution ''to affirmatively ask every one of their account holders the nationality question.''
In Canada, where hundreds of thousands of United States passport holders reside, the outcry has been great. Andrea Taylor, director of the Investment Industry Association of Canada, said compliance costs could prove devastating for smaller investment firms already facing tough times. ''This will kind of be the last nail in the coffin for a lot of them,'' she said.
Mario Frankovich, chief executive of Burgeonvest Bick Securities, said his Toronto firm currently required no data from new clients that would show United States links, so any electronic search ''would be showing zero U.S. passports.'' He said his sense was that Fatca required companies ''to prove your innocence.''
Enforcement of the law will be tricky, as many countries, including the 27 members of the European Union, forbid banks or companies to transfer such information directly to a foreign government.
Emer Traynor, a spokeswoman for Algirdas Semeta, the European Union tax commissioner, said talks were under way with the United States to permit European companies to transfer data to their national authorities, which would then pass that information on to Washington. A United States official confirmed this.
There are also questions about whether the I.R.S. will be ready for millions of complicated new filings each year, with critics charging that Congress failed to provide the agency with the capacity to handle the coming avalanche of data. An I.R.S. spokesman, Dean Patterson, said that the agency was ''allocating the requisite resources and personnel to implement Fatca'' and that ''we are committed to laying out a constructive framework for implementation.''
Then there is a question of reciprocity: Would the United States accept the same demands for information from the tax authorities in other countries -- say Russia or China?
Some analysts nonetheless see hope that, once the initial acrimony and confusion clear away, Fatca could lead to more cooperative information sharing.
Jeffrey Owens, a tax expert at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, said catching tax evaders was ''a concern that many member countries share.'' If countries could agree to new global reporting standards for exchanging information, he said, then ''maybe there's a way forward.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX FRAUD (94%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); LAWYERS (71%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); DELOITTE LLP (58%); CAPLIN & DRYSDALE CHARTERED (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1091 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: When a Penny Saved Is a TV Show

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
On Monday, the day after Christmas, TLC's cameras were cruising Forever 21, Lane Bryant and GameStop stores in Florida and California for a future episode of recession-era entertainment: ''Extreme Couponing.''
At this penny-pinching moment in American history, this reality show about moms (and a few dads) who compulsively clip coupons and stockpile free stuff is a breakout hit for TLC, the cable channel formerly best known for Kate Gosselin. So the channel is trying to make the most of it, filming holiday specials and conceiving two spinoffs that will be shown this week.
The first, ''Extreme Couponing: All-Stars,'' is a series that has its premiere on Tuesday, about people competing to save the most money on their groceries. The second, ''Extreme Cheapskates,'' is a special on Wednesday, about people who barter, Dumpster-dive and forage for free goods and services. If the special receives good ratings, it too could become a series.
''We feel like we've identified a brand-new genre, which is 'found money,' '' said Amy Winter, the general manager of TLC. 
As mundane as it may seem, watching ''Extreme Couponing'' can be addicting, just like couponing. Viewers root for the shoppers, whose stories of economic hardship and shopping salvation are told in 15-minute increments.
''It's doing two things at once,'' said Matt Sharp, an executive producer. ''It's tapping into the unbelievable, yet it's also relatable.''
Almost everyone goes to the supermarket, but almost no one takes home $600 worth of groceries for a nickel. Yet it's an appealing idea, especially at a time of high unemployment and consumer malaise.
''If you had put this show on before the economy took that downturn, I'm not sure that it would have resonated the way that it did,'' Ms. Winter said.
The show's formation follows the recent timeline of the economy. After the financial collapse in 2008, as American households cut back on spending in the recession, a few television stations and newspapers ran features about fanatical coupon cutters. Some were professionals, like Susan Samtur, who had been writing books and articles about couponing for decades and whose pointers were suddenly back in vogue.
''Her weekly grocery bill you'll have to see to believe,'' said Kris Van Cleave of WJLA, a Washington-area TV station, when he interviewed Ms. Samtur in April 2009. With her coupons and rebates filed by category, she saved $144.11 on a trip with Mr. Van Cleave, paying just $9.43 for a week's worth of groceries.
CNN picked up the WJLA report, and Mr. Sharp sent the video to a colleague at his production company, Sharp Entertainment. ''There's a show here,'' Mr. Sharp wrote in an e-mail. ''Something in EXTREME CHEAPLIVING.''
The idea percolated, and in 2010 there were other news reports that ''further piqued our interest,'' he said in an interview. An article in The Wall Street Journal that March called coupon clipping ''the newest extreme sport.'' ABC's ''Nightline'' pitted two shoppers against each other in an ''extreme couponing'' competition.
''The last time I purchased toilet paper at the store was in 2007,'' Nathan Engels, a founder of a couponing Web site, boasted on ''Nightline.'' He was able to stockpile a three-year supply for $30.
TLC ordered one hour of ''Extreme Couponing'' from Mr. Sharp's company and showed it at the end of December last year. In it Mr. Engels and three other avid shoppers were shown trawling through stores for deals; more than two million people watched, immediately making it a hit by TLC's standards.
''I even found myself running to grab this week's circular out of the trash where I had just placed it, hoping to find a deal like those I'd just seen,'' wrote an enthusiastic blogger for Entertainment Weekly the next morning.
A little more than a week later TLC ordered 12 half-hour episodes. When the shows began in April, they continued to attract about two million viewers on average, boosting the channel's prime-time audience over all.
TLC noticed a surge in Google searches for couponing when the episodes were shown. And Mr. Sharp noticed e-mails and Twitter messages from viewers who, he said, ''took notice of coupons for the first time.''
''We're actually really proud of that,'' he said.
Several newspapers have reported an increase in sales attributed to a coupon craze started by the show, while others have reported rashes of thefts. Veteran coupon clippers have implied that some of the people on the show have broken rules because they have appeared to use coupons designated for one product on another product.
Bloggers dissected screen shots of episodes for evidence of fraud, and the trade group for coupon manufacturers said the show ''creates unrealistic expectations about how coupons work and promotes the misuse of coupons.'' TLC has said that the people on the show, who are not paid by the producers, are responsible for their own coupon use.
The second season of ''Extreme Couponing'' slipped in the ratings, with about 1.1 million viewers on average, though it was shown in the fall, when the competition tends to be stiffer.
TLC has high hopes for ''All-Stars,'' which appears to be inspired by the classic game show ''Supermarket Sweep.'' In each episode two people will shop with coupons for charity, and the person with the highest percentage in savings will advance to the final shopping competition. The winner will be named the Ultimate Extreme Couponer and receive a trophy with a grocery cart on top.
''It taps into the notion that life is a game show,'' Mr. Sharp said.
His camera crews were also out the day after Thanksgiving, the so-called Black Friday, and again this Monday for special episodes to be shown throughout the winter. ''Our couponers have to enlist support from their families and friends,'' Mr. Sharp said, ''because they can't hit all of the sales themselves. It's a complete team sport. It's almost like you're in the locker room of a football game.''
Similarly, ''Extreme Cheapskates,'' which comes from a different production company, showcases people who have finely tuned strategies for economizing. One person profiled will gladly box up strangers' leftovers at restaurants to take home himself. That show is not a direct spinoff of ''Extreme Couponing,'' a TLC publicist said, but it is ''another notch in the savertaining belt.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, Michelle Waggoner and her husband, Cory, of Fulton, Mo., in an episode of ''Extreme Couponing: All-Stars'' on TLC. (C1)
 Roy Haynes of Huntington, Vt., retrieves rice in ''Extreme Cheapskates,'' on TLC this Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TLC) (C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); RETAIL COUPONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CHRONOLOGIES (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); SALES REBATES (76%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (76%); CABLE TELEVISION (76%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); HISTORY (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Extreme Couponing: All-Stars (TV Program); Extreme Cheapskates (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1092 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: Indian Pt. and Fukushima: Alike or Not?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Victor Gilinsky, in ''Indian Point: The Next Fukushima?'' (Op-Ed, Dec. 17), doesn't mention major differences between Indian Point and the Fukushima plants, never acknowledges their entirely different physical environments and doesn't mention industry's steps taken since the tragedy at Fukushima in Japan. 
Indian Point, which is owned and operated by Entergy Nuclear, is not susceptible to tsunamis. Still, it can withstand twice the flooding the area around it has ever seen. Fukushima had no such safety margin.
Indian Point's multiple backup electric generators are protected from extreme flooding or sit at very high elevations. Its containment buildings and fuel pools are separate, unlike Fukushima's, and can prevent the spread of contamination as was done at the Three Mile Island meltdown 32 years ago.
In addition, Indian Point has completed reviews of its severe weather and earthquake protections, has in recent years added backup cooling and electric power capabilities and is cooperating with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. on further possible enhancements.
No one dismisses the radiological consequences of Fukushima. On the contrary, Entergy and its dedicated and disciplined operators and engineers are expertly operating Indian Point to prevent anything remotely like Fukushima from ever happening.
JOHN HERRON President and Chief Nuclear Officer Entergy Nuclear Jackson, Miss., Dec. 19, 2011
To the Editor:
Victor Gilinsky, a former member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, has it exactly right. The consequences -- environmental and economic alike -- of land contamination from a large radioactive release from Indian Point should be carefully considered during the license renewal proceedings.
Mr. Gilinsky's recommendation is particularly relevant given the lasting impact that contamination can have on New York City's water supply. Long-term contamination is also an issue for a state that ranks among the nation's biggest producers of dairy goods, wine, apples, corn and cabbage.
The same local food economy that is becoming increasingly important to New Yorkers could be adversely affected by a sizable release of radioactive material.
KYLE RABIN New York, Dec. 17, 2011
The writer is director of water and energy programs for the Grace Communications Foundation, an environmental organization.
To the Editor:
Could a devastating accident happen? Could the sun fail to rise? Could the earth stop spinning?
We've learned to ''never say never,'' but how likely is it that an accident like the one at Fukushima could occur at Indian Point? That didn't just happen -- there was a tsunami. Could that happen here in Westchester County? I'm not a scientist, a meteorologist or a nuclear physicist, but I'm pretty sure we're safe from that.
Indian Point provides about 25 percent of New York City's electricity, and no plans have been made to replace that energy. Will that translate to 25 percent less subway service, less power for air-conditioners, more blackouts and brownouts, fewer street lights? I suggest that those who want Indian Point shut down won't be happy when their commute takes twice as long and subway cars are no longer air-conditioned.
JOAN SIREFMAN Peekskill, N.Y., Dec. 18, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEXANDER GLANDIEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); TSUNAMIS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); METEOROLOGY (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (75%); WRITERS (73%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (71%); WEATHER (70%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (50%)

COMPANY: ENTERGY CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (82%)

TICKER: ETR (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); JACKSON, MS, USA (69%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1093 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Powerful Iraqi Bloc Calls for New Elections in Blow to Government

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and JACK HEALY; Yasir Ghazi, Duriad Adnan and Zaid Thaker contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- A powerful political group led by the anti-American cleric Moktada al-Sadr called on Monday for Parliament to be dissolved and early elections to be held, the first open challenge to Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki from within his Shiite coalition in an escalating political crisis.
Leaders of Mr. Sadr's faction said that scrapping the current government was the only way to steer Iraq out of the crisis, which has put Mr. Maliki, a Shiite, at odds with leaders representing the country's Sunni minority and has quickly exploded since the withdrawal of American troops about a week ago.
The move by the Sadr bloc is not enough to immediately bring down the Maliki government, and new elections could take months to organize. But even the prospect of a new vote adds more uncertainty to Iraq's fragile political landscape, possibly setting the country's main factions -- Shiites, Sunnis and ethnic Kurds -- and its byzantine networks of political allies scrambling for turf, influence, money and votes. 
After the national elections in March 2010 failed to deliver a clear winner, Iraq sank into nine months of political stalemate as parties competed to form a new government. Efforts to deliver electricity and rebuild the economy faltered. Finally, Mr. Maliki built a coalition that relied on the 40 seats in Parliament controlled by the Sadr faction, a nationalist voice for the Shiite working class.
And even if there are no new elections, and the government survives, the political brinkmanship is another blow to Mr. Maliki's stature as a national leader.
On Dec. 19, a day after the last American combat troops left the country, the government issued an arrest warrant for the Sunni vice president, Tariq al-Hashimi, on charges that he ran a death squad. Mr. Hashimi, who has denied the charges, has been in the semiautonomous Kurdish region in Iraq's north, and the Kurds have angered Mr. Maliki by refusing to hand him over.
Many Sunni leaders saw the move against Mr. Hashimi as part of a campaign by the government to arrest or intimidate its sectarian or political opponents. Mr. Maliki has also sought to unseat the Sunni deputy prime minister, and in recent months his security forces have arrested hundreds of people accused of having ties to Saddam Hussein's outlawed Baath Party.
''We have a lot of problems,'' said Baha al-Aaraji, a leading lawmaker with Mr. Sadr's bloc. ''The Americans, when they came to Iraq, they gave power to some blocs and some leaders -- and they had power.''
He added: ''We need new elections.''
The Sadr bloc's call won support from a leading member of the predominantly Sunni Iraqiya coalition, one of Mr. Maliki's main rivals. However, some members of other powerful Shiite groups dismissed the bid as hollow gamesmanship.
''This is ridiculous,'' said Hassoun al-Fatlawi, a member of the Supreme Iraqi Islamic Council. ''The problems we have can be solved, but not this way. Let them sit down together if they really want to solve it.''
Some analysts speculated that the Sadr faction simply wanted to increase Mr. Maliki's troubles.
''My hunch is that the Sadrists are trying to capitalize on the political disarray,'' said Marisa Cochrane Sullivan, the deputy director of the Institute for the Study of War, a research group in Washington, and an expert on Shiite movements. ''While they may have an alliance now, I think Maliki and the Sadrists are headed for a collision in the longer term in the battle for Shi'a dominance of Iraq.''
Before they formed an alliance, Mr. Maliki and Mr. Sadr were bitter foes who squared off for control of several Shiite strongholds.
In 2008, Mr. Maliki, then the prime minister, sent his forces to drive Mr. Sadr's Mahdi Army militiamen from the southern oil city of Basra and forced them to cede control of the city of Amara, a provincial capital in southeastern Iraq. It was a turning point that gave Mr. Maliki standing as a national leader who was willing to confront powerful Shiite forces to secure Iraq.
In recent weeks, Mr. Sadr has been particularly critical of Mr. Maliki. He criticized the handling of the Hashimi case and condemned Mr. Maliki's recent visit to Washington as ''a submission and political weakness'' and an insult to ''the blood that flowed in the homeland because of the occupation.''
Hatem Baidhani, an official in the Parliament offices of the Sadr bloc, offered a glimpse of the coalition's broad ambitions in a recent interview, saying, ''The next prime minister will be from the Sadrists exclusively.''
Meanwhile, violence continued to roil Baghdad. Around 7:30 a.m. on Monday, a car bomb exploded at a checkpoint in front of the Interior Ministry, killing five people, including two officers.
Just hours earlier, two makeshift bombs were detonated in the predominantly Sunni area of Abu Ghraib, which is policed mainly by Shiite security officers. Four officers were killed in the attack and four others were wounded, officials said.
No group claimed responsibility, but the attacks resembled those by Al Qaeda in Iraq, the insurgent group accused of trying to plunge the country back into sectarian conflict.
Elsewhere, it appeared that a standoff between the government and 3,400 Iranian dissidents living at a camp in eastern Iraq might be nearing an end.
Under a deal announced late Sunday night by the United Nations office in Baghdad, members of the Mujahedeen Khalq would leave Camp Ashraf, in Diyala Province, and move to a former American military base near Baghdad's international airport. The United Nations refugee agency would eventually relocate the residents to other countries, most likely as refugees.
The group has not yet agreed to the deal.
The exiles are members of a paramilitary group that has tried to topple Iran's government and is listed as a terrorist group by the United States. They were given refuge by Saddam Hussein during his war with Iran, but the current Iraqi government, which has closer ties to Iran, has vowed to dismantle the outpost by the end of the year.
Mr. Maliki, who under the Hussein government had fled to Iran to escape a death warrant, gave the group a six-month extension last week, suggesting some hope of resolving the situation.
American officials and United Nations diplomats hailed the deal as a major step that could prevent a humanitarian catastrophe and avert a confrontation between the camp's residents and the Iraqi security forces stationed outside its perimeter. In April, the United Nations said more than 30 camp residents were killed in a raid by the Iraqi Army.
A camp spokesman said in a telephone interview on Monday that they had yet to see the terms of the formal agreement and did not know whether it would offer adequate security guarantees.
''The most important thing is the protection of the lives of the 3,400 people at the camp,'' said Shahriar Kia, the spokesman. ''That's the main priority.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A portrait of the anti-American cleric Moktada al-Sadr's father-in-law, Muhammad Bakr Sadr, at his offices in Baghdad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); ARRESTS (86%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ARREST WARRANTS (68%)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (89%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1094 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Midlife Crisis Economics

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
The members of the Obama administration have many fine talents, but making adept historical analogies may not be among them.
When the administration came to office in the depths of the financial crisis, many of its leading figures concluded that the moment was analogous to the Great Depression. They read books about the New Deal and sought to learn from F.D.R.
But, in the 1930s, people genuinely looked to government to ease their fears and restore their confidence. Today, Americans are more likely to fear government than be reassured by it. 
According to a Gallup survey, 64 percent of Americans polled said they believed that big government is the biggest threat to the country. Only 26 percent believed that big business is the biggest threat. As a result, the public has reacted to Obama's activism with fear and anxiety. The Democrats lost 63 House seats in the 2010 elections.
Members of the administration have now dropped the New Deal parallels. But they have started making analogies between this era and the progressive era around the turn of the 20th century.
Again, there are superficial similarities. Then, as now, we are seeing great concentrations of wealth, especially at the top. Then, as now, the professional class of lawyers, teachers and journalists seems to feel as if it has the upper hand in its status war against the business class of executives and financiers.
But these superficial similarities are outweighed by vast differences.
First, the underlying economic situations are very different. A century ago, the American economy was a vibrant jobs machine. Industrialization was volatile and cruel, but it produced millions of new jobs, sucking labor in from the countryside and from overseas.
Today's economy is not a jobs machine and lacks that bursting vibrancy. The rate of new business start-ups was declining even before the 2008 financial crisis. Companies are finding that they can get by with fewer workers. As President Obama has observed, factories that used to employ 1,000 workers can now be even more productive with less than 100.
Moreover, the information economy widens inequality for deep and varied reasons that were unknown a century ago. Inequality is growing in nearly every developed country. According to a report from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, over the past 30 years, inequality in Sweden, Germany, Israel, Finland and New Zealand has grown as fast or faster than inequality in the United States, even though these countries have very different welfare systems.
In the progressive era, the economy was in its adolescence and the task was to control it. Today the economy is middle-aged; the task is to rejuvenate it.
Second, the governmental challenge is very different today than it was in the progressive era. Back then, government was small and there were few worker safety regulations. The problem was a lack of institutions. Today, government is large, and there is a thicket of regulations, torts and legal encumbrances. The problem is not a lack of institutions; it's a lack of institutional effectiveness.
The United States spends far more on education than any other nation, with paltry results. It spends far more on health care, again, with paltry results. It spends so much on poverty programs that if we just took that money and handed poor people checks, we would virtually eliminate poverty overnight. In the progressive era, the task was to build programs; today the task is to reform existing ones.
Third, the moral culture of the nation is very different. The progressive era still had a Victorian culture, with its rectitude and restrictions. Back then, there was a moral horror at the thought of debt. No matter how bad the economic problems became, progressive-era politicians did not impose huge debt burdens on their children. That ethos is clearly gone.
In the progressive era, there was an understanding that men who impregnated women should marry them. It didn't always work in practice, but that was the strong social norm. Today, that norm has dissolved. Forty percent of American children are born out of wedlock. This sentences the U.S. to another generation of widening inequality and slower human capital development.
One hundred years ago, we had libertarian economics but conservative values. Today we have oligarchic economics and libertarian moral values -- a bad combination.
In sum, in the progressive era, the country was young and vibrant. The job was to impose economic order. Today, the country is middle-aged but self-indulgent. Bad habits have accumulated. Interest groups have emerged to protect the status quo. The job is to restore old disciplines, strip away decaying structures and reform the welfare state. The country needs a productive midlife crisis.
The progressive era is not a model; it is a foil. It provides a contrast and shows us what we really need to do.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); WRITERS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (69%); NEW ECONOMY (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (62%); STARTUPS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); SWEDEN (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1095 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1846 words

HEADLINE: Caucus Near, Race Is Still Up in the Air

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
DES MOINES -- Mitt Romney and his allies are making an assertive final push this week to increase his chances of a strong finish in the Iowa caucuses, the outcome of which could help determine the length of the Republican presidential nominating battle.
Any questions about whether Mr. Romney is playing to win in Iowa will be dispelled in the closing days of campaigning here. He introduced a new TV commercial on Monday, promoting his economic vision and his family values -- a message that is fortified by a hard-hitting punch from a well-financed outside group attacking two of his rivals.
''It is a moral imperative for America to stop spending more money than we take in,'' Mr. Romney says in the ad, which will be running when he arrives in Iowa on Tuesday for a bus tour and an orchestrated blitz of appearances by surrogates leading up to the caucuses on Jan. 3. 
While the future of Mr. Romney's candidacy does not depend on an Iowa victory, his advisers believe that his prospects are better than they once expected. The factors include arguments that he would be his party's strongest candidate against President Obama, divisions among social conservatives about which candidate to support and the challenges facing Newt Gingrich and his still bare-bones campaign organization, highlighted by his failure last week to qualify for the Virginia primary ballot.
The strength of Representative Ron Paul of Texas, who has built a dedicated band of supporters, and the rising candidacy here of Rick Santorum are among the ingredients fueling a volatile final week before the Iowa caucuses kick off the first round of voting. The race could be susceptible to unforeseen turns and missteps, but a consensus is gathering among top Republicans that the advantages for Mr. Romney are growing.
''If the evangelical vote is splintered and Ron Paul's people aren't going anywhere, Mitt Romney could end up winning the Iowa caucuses as a result,'' said Mike Huckabee, a former Arkansas governor who defeated Mr. Romney here in the 2008 caucuses. ''It would not put me on the floor if that happened.''
Yet interviews with voters across Iowa reinforce the finding of polls that suggest a majority of Republicans who plan to attend the caucuses are still open to changing their minds over the coming days. The race, which is also being influenced by the cross-fire of several candidates who are fighting to keep their presidential aspirations alive, including Gov. Rick Perry of Texas and Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota, remains as unsettled in its closing days as any round of Iowa caucuses in recent memory.
Here is a look at a few factors shaping the closing chapter of the preseason race:
The Gingrich Challenge
When the final Republican presidential debate of 2011 took place on Dec. 15 in Sioux City, Iowa, Mr. Gingrich lost his best platform for the rest of the year. His strong performance in a series of televised debates had breathed new life into his candidacy, but he has struggled to build a campaign structure to fend off a barrage of attacks from Mr. Romney, Mr. Paul and Mr. Perry and ensure that his supporters turn out on caucus night.
He has loudly criticized the negative advertising against him, but his complaints have received far less attention than the attacks on various elements of his long public career.
He has declined to say how much money he has raised in recent months, but the fact that he has not responded with a vigorous ad campaign suggests that he cannot afford to do so. Even as he made plans for a closing sprint through Iowa in which he will try to draw clearer contrasts with Mr. Romney on economic policy, Mr. Gingrich has tried to lower expectations about his showing here, saying that his strategy is to place in the top three or four in Iowa and New Hampshire and then win in South Carolina on Jan. 21 and in Florida 10 days later.
''Negative campaigning works at some point, and the electorate does listen to those things,'' said Kraig Paulsen, the speaker of the Iowa House, who endorsed Mr. Gingrich last week. ''If you say something often enough, some people will start to believe it.''
Mr. Gingrich has endured more attacks than any other candidate. During local news broadcasts here last week at breakfast, lunch or dinnertime, barely a commercial break went by when several advertisements did not mention ethics charges against him from his time as House speaker, his $1.6 million payments from the mortgage giant Freddie Mac or his three marriages. The criticism is even more stinging in fliers that have arrived in mailboxes across Iowa.
But Mr. Gingrich's record, including his willingness to work across the aisle on big issues facing the nation, also appeals to some voters as they look for a candidate who can both hold his own in a campaign against Mr. Obama and address partisan paralysis in Washington.
Kim Reem, a Republican activist in Cedar Rapids, studied the pros and cons of the candidates and came to the conclusion last week that Mr. Gingrich's history of forging bipartisan deals could be an advantage.
She said that a flier from the Romney campaign, which showed Mr. Gingrich sitting alongside Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader, in support of action to curb global warming, pushed her toward -- not away from -- Mr. Gingrich.
''It seems like the word 'compromise' has become a dirty word or an ugly word in politics, but I think it's a very important part of the process,'' Ms. Reem said. ''We need someone with a track record of bringing polar opposites together.''
Santorum Rising
Mr. Santorum, a former senator from Pennsylvania, has logged more miles in Iowa than any of his rivals. He went pheasant hunting on Monday in central Iowa and invited reporters along to talk afterward. He is one of the few contenders who has not had at least a fleeting moment in the spotlight, but that seems to be changing in the final days of the race.
His brightening prospects, Republicans here believe, have kept social conservatives from coalescing around Mr. Gingrich. And that, in turn, could help Mr. Romney.
As Mr. Santorum made his way to all 99 counties in the state, becoming the first candidate to do so, he built up a reservoir of good will from voters as he patiently took questions and explained his conservative views. Even his most ardent supporters do not necessarily expect a victory, but several endorsements have provided a measure of validation.
Not only did he win the support of Bob Vander Plaats, an influential leader among evangelical voters, but he also won the approval of respected voices in all corners of the state, including noted pastors and radio announcers like Sam Clovis in Sioux City, who last week announced on his popular morning talk show in conservative northwestern Iowa that he was supporting Mr. Santorum. He urged his listeners to do the same.
Alan R. Ostergren, the Muscatine County attorney, has been an admirer since Mr. Santorum's visit to his county this year. ''When I look at what Santorum has,'' Mr. Ostergren said, ''he matches the best of my views of the world.''
While Mr. Santorum has only recently started advertising on television and his commercials are significantly less frequent than those of Mr. Romney or Mr. Perry, his efforts are now being bolstered by a ''super PAC'' that is running a positive campaign promoting him as the ''true conservative'' in the race.
Outside Influences
The Iowa caucuses may not be a reliable predictor of who will win the Republican nomination, as Mr. Huckabee could attest from his experience in 2008.
But if nothing else, they are proving a high-stakes test for a new generation of political groups -- the super PACS, which under a 2010 Supreme Court ruling can advocate on behalf of a candidate with fewer disclosure requirements and fund-raising limits than the candidates themselves face, as long as the groups do not coordinate with the campaigns they are backing.
The assumption had been that the groups, often run by close associates of the candidates, would take on the dirty work of tearing down opponents. In Iowa over the last few weeks, that assumption has proved correct, with implications not just for the outcome here, but also for how the rest of the campaign will unfold.
While Mr. Romney has kept his own television advertising largely positive, the main group working to elect him, Restore Our Future, has trained intense fire on Mr. Gingrich, which has probably contributed to his decline in polls. Mr. Perry has also been a target of the group, with an eye on severely wounding him so he is less of a threat in South Carolina and Florida.
Mr. Paul has been the most aggressive in assailing Mr. Gingrich. A minute-long ad accusing Mr. Gingrich of ''serial hypocrisy'' plays again and again on television against a backdrop of dramatic music and black-and-white images that suggest he profited extensively from his time as House speaker.
For his part, Mr. Perry has sought to paint Mr. Romney as ''Wall Street'' and Mr. Gingrich as ''K Street'' and to highlight their previous support for health care mandates. The pointed criticism of Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich could damage both of them, Republicans say, allowing for a rival to unexpectedly emerge in the waning days of the race here.
''If you have a knife fight going on, another candidate can slip through the back door and under the curtain,'' Mr. Huckabee, who is neutral in the race, said in an interview. ''Sometimes there are unintended consequences of a negative campaign.''
Organization
In the closing burst of campaigning before voters gather at 1,774 precincts across Iowa next week to choose their top Republican candidate, several uncertainties remain, chief among them, the size of the turnout and whether Republicans will spontaneously decide to attend the caucuses out of a desire to win back the White House. If a traditional organization is needed to entice voters to show up, Mr. Paul could hold an advantage.
While Mr. Paul's state campaign headquarters are in the Des Moines area, a satellite office opened by volunteers was bustling last week along Main Street in the small eastern Iowa town of Maquoketa, a three-hour drive from the capital. Hand-printed signs decorated the storefront window, providing precise instructions, with addresses and maps, about where to vote on Jan. 3 -- a level of detail that could provide a challenge to his rivals' organizations.
Mr. Paul's campaign has also recruited independents and Democrats to register as Republicans -- for one night, at least -- and support him at the caucuses.
In conversations with more than a dozen top Republican strategists, one theme for what to look for in the final week of the Iowa caucus campaign became clear: will any candidate start taking aim at Mr. Paul in paid advertising, following up on Mr. Gingrich's attacks on his foreign policy last week? It is not expected from Mr. Romney, who could also find reason to cheer a victory by Mr. Paul, aides say, because it could devalue the outcome and, more important, mean that one of his leading rivals did not win.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Recent scenes from the Republican campaign trail in Iowa. Clockwise from top: Mitt Romney in Sioux City
Ron Paul after speaking at a meeting in Mount Pleasant
Michele Bachmann at a bakery in West Burlington
Newt Gingrich in Ottumwa
and Rick Santorum participating in a pheasant hunt in Adel. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
JOSHUA LOTT/REUTERS
 ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); FAMILY (71%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); RICK PERRY (77%); RON PAUL (77%); NEWT GINGRICH (77%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); MICHELE BACHMANN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%) IOWA, USA (99%); TEXAS, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1096 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Political Struggle Delayed, Not Resolved, in Congress

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When Congress handily passed a bill to set payroll tax rates, jobless benefits and Medicare doctors' fees for the next two months, it seemed to end an epic political struggle between President Obama and Republicans on Capitol Hill. In fact, that was just the beginning.
Every issue in dispute remains unresolved, waiting to be addressed when Congress returns next month for an election-year session in which agreements could be even more elusive. 
Basically, the new law, signed on Friday by Mr. Obama, preserves the status quo through February, so House and Senate negotiators can try to reach longer-term agreements on the Social Security payroll tax, unemployment insurance, Medicare and a few other issues, like the shape of the welfare program that provides cash assistance to more than 4.6 million poor people.
The law says that Mr. Obama shall grant a permit within 60 days for construction of the Keystone XL oil pipeline, from Canada to the Gulf Coast, unless he finds that the project ''would not serve the national interest.'' Republicans in Congress are already looking for additional ways to put pressure on Mr. Obama if he blocks the pipeline or delays a decision.
Under growing political pressure, House Republican leaders accepted the two-month extension of payroll tax relief. But many rank-and-file members of the House Republican caucus said they doubted that the tax break would do much to stimulate the economy and saw no urgent need to continue it for 10 more months. By contrast, Mr. Obama and Congressional Democrats say the payroll tax cut is needed to bolster the economy.
An extension of the tax cut and jobless benefits ''should be a formality,'' Mr. Obama said. But he added, ''We have a lot more work to do,'' and said he expected ''some tough fights.''
Even if Democrats and Republicans could agree on extending the payroll tax cut, they fundamentally disagree about how to offset the additional cost, $100 billion for the last 10 months of 2012.
The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, made clear on Friday that Democrats would keep pressing for a tax surcharge on individual income over $1 million -- a demand dropped by Democrats in talks that led to the two-month compromise.
''There should be a fair tax on rich people,'' Mr. Reid said.
With a few exceptions, Republicans in Congress have opposed a ''millionaires' tax,'' saying it would hurt the economy and people who create jobs.
House Republicans would pay for the legislation, in part, by freezing the pay of federal employees through September 2013.
Democrats generally oppose that idea.
A 20-member conference committee will try to work out differences between the House and the Senate on a yearlong bill. Mr. Reid said he had appointed Senator Benjamin L. Cardin of Maryland to the panel because he knew that Mr. Cardin would guard the interests of federal employees. More than 275,000 federal workers live in Maryland.
The fate of the main federal-state welfare program, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, was largely overlooked in the fight over payroll taxes. Money and the legal authority for the welfare program were due to run out on Dec. 31.
Jennifer Hrycyna Wagner, the welfare director in Illinois, said state officials around the country feared a possible interruption in benefits and services for ''our most vulnerable residents.''
Congress extended the program for two months, but its future beyond that is up in the air. If Congress provides additional welfare money, it is likely to come with new conditions.
Many states deliver cash assistance using electronic benefit transfer cards. The House has voted twice this month to forbid use of the cards at any liquor store, casino or strip club -- any ''retail establishment which provides adult-oriented entertainment in which performers disrobe or perform in an unclothed state for entertainment.''
Several states have been embarrassed by the disclosure that welfare recipients were claiming benefits at such places.
Representative Gwen Moore, Democrat of Wisconsin, opposed the restriction, saying it would ''humiliate and marginalize'' poor people.
''In many neighborhoods,'' she said, ''the closest A.T.M. is located in a nearby liquor store.''
Some state officials also question the provision. Miki Allard, a spokeswoman for the Nevada Department of Health and Human Services, said: ''It may be very appropriate for our public assistance recipients to access benefits from casino machines. A large proportion of our clients work in casinos. They are not there to gamble. They are there to work.''
A bigger fight looms over unemployment insurance. House Republicans want to reduce the maximum duration of benefits to 59 weeks, from 99. They would allow states to require drug testing. And they would require most recipients of jobless benefits to search for work and to enroll in G.E.D. programs if they had not completed high school. Republicans also want to allow waivers of federal law so some states could divert money from the payment of benefits to the retraining of workers. Democrats oppose most of those ideas, saying they would cut a lifeline for millions of people who have been out of work for a year or more.
Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, will be a member of the House-Senate conference committee. In picking him, Mr. Reid noted that Rhode Island had high unemployment and said ''no one in the Senate has been more protective of the unemployed.''
The negotiators will also try to find a new way to pay doctors treating Medicare patients, to avoid the continual threat of deep cuts in fees.
Unless Congress steps in, doctors will see a 27 percent reduction in Medicare reimbursements in March. As a result of such cuts, lawmakers say, many older Americans could lose access to their doctors, because doctors would be less willing to take Medicare patients.
One of the five House Democrats named to the conference committee, Representative Allyson Y. Schwartz of Pennsylvania, is drafting legislation to scrap the current payment formula, which penalizes doctors if Medicare spending on physician services exceeds annual goals linked to growth of the nation's economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (68%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (67%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HARRY REID (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1097 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: China and Japan Agree to New Currency Dealings

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

 BODY:
BEIJING -- China and Japan have agreed to start direct trading of their currencies, officials announced during a visit here by Japan's prime minister, Yoshihiko Noda.
The move was among several that emerged from Mr. Noda's meetings with President Hu Jintao, which on Monday focused on how the two nations could work together to maintain peace on the Korean peninsula.
Japan will also apply to buy Chinese bonds next year, allowing it to accumulate more renminbi in its foreign-exchange reserves. 
China is the world's second-largest economy while Japan is the third largest, and the currency agreement is part of a move away from using dollars.
Chinese officials have said recently they would like to broaden the global use of the renminbi, also known as the yuan, and want to see more countries move away from relying on dollars as the worldwide currency.
Economists say, though, that the renminbi will not compete with the dollar or the euro anytime soon as a dominant currency in international trade.
The meeting was the first between Mr. Hu and a leader of another East Asian nation since North Korea announced the death of its longtime leader, Kim Jong-il, and it underscored the widespread questions about the north's course without its cultlike head of state.
Mr. Noda had originally scheduled the two-day trip to Beijing to talk about strengthening bilateral ties between China and Japan, an agenda the countries did not abandon despite the focus on Mr. Kim's death. State news broadcasts in North Korea have been proclaiming Mr. Kim's youngest son, Kim Jong-un, the ''Great Successor.'' Mr. Kim is in his late 20s, and he is in transition to becoming the youngest leader of a nation with a nuclear arms program. His uncle, Jang Song-taek, also appears to be playing a prominent role in the shaping of the new leadership.
The Yonhap news agency, based in South Korea, reported Thursday that Kim Jong-nam, the estranged eldest son of Kim Jong-il, had traveled in recent days to Beijing from his home in Macau and was now staying in the Chinese capital under the ''protection'' of senior officials. The son and father had a falling out after Kim Jong-nam was caught in 2001 trying to enter Japan on a fake passport to see Tokyo Disneyland.
Japan, South Korea and the United States are all looking to China to ensure that North Korea, a communist nation that has endured decades of isolation, remains stable during the transition. The Xinhua report on Mr. Noda's visit indicates that stability, both inside North Korea and on the divided Korean Peninsula, is also the top priority for China, which is North Korea's greatest ally and biggest trade partner.
Japanese news reports that appeared before Mr. Noda's trip here said Mr. Noda would talk to Mr. Hu about restarting the six-party talks, which are aimed at getting North Korea to curb its nuclear program.
China began leading the six-party talks in August 2003. The other countries involved in the talks are Japan, North Korea, Russia, South Korea and the United States. North Korea withdrew from the talks in April 2009 and expelled all nuclear inspectors from the country. Now with the change of leadership in North Korea, questions have been raised about whether there is a chance the six-party talks might be revived.
China has often said that negotiations with North Korea are the way forward.
In 2010, China refused to comply with requests by the United States and South Korea to condemn North Korea following the sinking of the Cheonan, a South Korean warship that officials in Seoul and Washington said had been hit by a torpedo from a North Korean submarine. North Korea has denied any involvement. China also did not publicly criticize North Korea when it shelled Yeonpyeong Island in South Korea in late 2010.
But behind the scenes, Chinese officials worked to try to rein in the North Korean military, the most powerful interest group in the country, according to officials in Washington.
.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (70%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (89%); YOSHIHIKO NODA (89%); HU JINTAO (78%); KIM JONG UN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) JAPAN (98%); CHINA (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); MACAO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1098 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1889 words

HEADLINE: Economic Slide Took a Detour At Capitol Hill

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU; Emmarie Huetteman and Derek Willis contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When Representative Ed Pastor was first elected to Congress two decades ago, he was comfortably ensconced in the middle class. Mr. Pastor, a Democrat from Arizona, held $100,000 or so in savings accounts in the mid-1990s and had a retirement pension, but like many Americans, he also owed the banks nearly as much in loans.
Today, Mr. Pastor, a miner's son and a former high school teacher, is a member of a not-so-exclusive club: Capitol Hill millionaires. That group has grown in recent years to include nearly half of all members of Congress -- 250 in all -- and the wealth gap between lawmakers and their constituents appears to be growing quickly, even as Congress debates unemployment benefits, possible cuts in food stamps and a ''millionaire's tax.''
Mr. Pastor buys a Powerball lottery ticket every weekend and says he does not consider himself rich. Indeed, within the halls of Congress, where the median net worth is $913,000 and climbing, he is not. He is a rank-and-file millionaire. But compared with the country at large, where the median net worth is $100,000 and has dropped significantly since 2004, he and most of his fellow lawmakers are true aristocrats. 
Largely insulated from the country's economic downturn since 2008, members of Congress -- many of them among the ''1 percenters'' denounced by Occupy Wall Street protesters -- have gotten much richer even as most of the country has become much poorer in the last six years, according to an analysis by The New York Times based on data from the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonprofit research group.
Congress has never been a place for paupers. From plantation owners in the pre-Civil War era to industrialists in the early 1900s to ex-Wall Street financiers and Internet executives today, it has long been populated with the rich, including scions of families like the Guggenheims, Hearsts, Kennedys and Rockefellers.
But rarely has the divide appeared so wide, or the public contrast so stark, between lawmakers and those they represent.
The wealth gap may go largely unnoticed in good times. ''But with the American public feeling all this economic pain, people just resent it more,'' said Alan J. Ziobrowski, a professor at Georgia State who studied lawmakers' stock investments.
There is broad debate about just why the wealth gap appears to be growing. For starters, the prohibitive costs of political campaigning may discourage the less affluent from even considering a candidacy. Beyond that, loose ethics controls, shrewd stock picks, profitable land deals, favorable tax laws, inheritances and even marriages to wealthy spouses are all cited as possible explanations for the rising fortunes on Capitol Hill.
What is clear is that members of Congress are getting richer compared not only with the average American worker, but also with other very rich Americans.
While the median net worth of members of Congress jumped 15 percent from 2004 to 2010, the net worth of the richest 10 percent of Americans remained essentially flat. For all Americans, median net worth dropped 8 percent, based on inflation-adjusted data from Moody's Analytics.
Going back further, the median wealth of House members grew some two and a half times between 1984 and 2009 in inflation-adjusted dollars, while the wealth of the average American family has actually declined slightly in that same time period, according to data cited by The Washington Post in an article published Monday on its Web site.
With millionaire status now the norm, the rarefied air in the Capitol these days is $100 million. That lofty level appears to have been surpassed by at least 10 members, led by Representative Darrell Issa, a California Republican and former auto alarm magnate who is worth somewhere between $195 million and $700 million. (Because federal law requires lawmakers to disclose their assets only in broad dollar ranges, more precise estimates are impossible.)
Their wealth has created occasional political problems for Congress's richest.
Mr. Issa, for instance, has faced outside scrutiny because of the overlap of his Congressional work and outside interests, including extensive investments with Wall Street firms like Merrill Lynch and Goldman Sachs, as well as land holdings in his San Diego district. In one case, he obtained some $800,000 in federal earmarks for a road-widening project running along his commercial property.
Senator John Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat who is married to Teresa Heinz Kerry, set off an uproar last year when it was disclosed that he had docked his $7 million, 76-foot yacht not in his home state but in neighboring Rhode Island, which has no sales or use tax on pleasure boats. (Mr. Kerry, worth at least $181 million, voluntarily paid $400,000 in Massachusetts taxes after criticism.)
Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader, was challenged about her wealth, as much as $196 million, by a member of her own party a few weeks ago. Representative Laura Richardson, a California Democrat who is among the poorest members of Congress with as much as $464,000 in debt, attacked Ms. Pelosi at a closed-door Democratic caucus meeting for endorsing a Congressional pay freeze, according to a report in Politico that was confirmed by other members.
Ms. Richardson angrily told Ms. Pelosi that, unlike her, some members needed the raise. Members now make a base pay of $174,000 and would automatically get a cost-of-living adjustment unless they were to decide, for a third straight year, to pass it up. Sheila Krumholz, executive director of the Center for Responsive Politics, said the rising Congressional wealth fuels public doubts about whether members are more focused on their constituents' interests or their own investment portfolios.
''There's always a concern that they can't truly understand or relate to the hardships that their constituents feel -- that rich people just don't get it,'' she said.
In an effort to gauge how directly the country's economic problems affected lawmakers, The New York Times contacted the offices of the 534 current members (one seat is vacant) for an informal survey. It asked if they had close friends or family members who had lost jobs or homes since the 2008 downturn.
Only 18 members responded.
Half the respondents said they had close friends or relatives who lost homes, while the other half said their personal contact was limited to constituents who came for help.
Two-thirds said they had close friends or relatives who had been laid off or had shut down a business during the downturn. The rest knew no one in that category personally.
Representative Anna G. Eshoo, a California Democrat who took part in the survey, said several cousins in their 40s and 50s whom she considers brothers and sisters lost their jobs recently. Without college degrees, none have found work, and they have emphasized to her the importance of unemployment benefits.
''Personal stories are very powerful because it's not a theory,'' Ms. Eshoo said. ''It's not talking points of a party. These are people experiencing the harshness of what is an economic depression for them.''
Multimillionaires in Congress ''view life through a different lens,'' she said.
Ms. Eshoo herself has escaped the worries weighing on her cousins. While she reported being in debt in 2004, she is now worth an estimated $1.8 million, her financial reports show. She said the rise came mostly from the sale of a family home where she lived for 40 years.
''I was fortunate,'' she said. ''I've lived from paycheck to paycheck most of my life, and I'm a single mother.''
One likely cause of the rising wealth, political analysts say, is the growing cost of a political campaign. A successful Senate run cost on average nearly $10 million last year, and a successful House race was $1.4 million, significantly above past elections.
The prohibitive cost has inevitably drawn richer candidates who can help bankroll their own campaigns and attract donations from rich friends -- while deterring less well-off candidates, political analysts say.
The data analyzed by The Times corroborated the idea that incoming members are in fact richer than those in the past. The freshman class of 106 members elected last year, including many Tea Party-backed Republicans, had a median net worth of $864,000 -- an inflation-adjusted increase of 26 percent from the 2004 freshmen.
Once in Congress, members benefit from many financial perks unavailable to most Americans. Beyond a base salary of $174,000 -- an increase of about 10 percent since 2004, somewhat less than inflation -- members get extra pay for senior posts and generous medical and pension benefits, as well as accouterments of power often financed by taxpayers or their campaigns.
While the housing collapse nationwide has hurt many Americans, lawmakers still find the real estate sector the most popular place to park their money, statistics from the Center of Responsive Politics show, and members of Congress continue to profit from their investments there. Perhaps the most tantalizing but hotly debated factor in the rising wealth of Congress is lawmakers' performance in the stock markets -- and the question of whether they are using their access to confidential information to enrich themselves.
In a study completed this year, Mr. Ziobrowski at Georgia State and his colleagues found that House members saw the stocks they owned outperform the market by 6 percent a year. Their research from several years ago found that senators did even better, at 12 percent above average. The researchers attributed the performance to a ''significant information advantage'' that lawmakers hold by virtue of their positions and the fact they are not bound by insider-trading law.
However, a separate study last year by researchers at Yale and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology found that the portfolios of lawmakers actually performed somewhat worse than average investors. It found that members did do better when investing in companies in their home districts or associated with campaign donors -- suggesting that they benefited from their political connections -- but still not as well as the average investor.
While concerns go back decades about lawmakers trading on confidential information, the issue drew renewed attention with a new book on the topic, ''Throw Them All Out'' by Peter Schweizer, and a ''60 Minutes'' report in November. Both linked high-level briefings that Congressional leaders received on the 2008 financial crisis and on health care to their purchase and sale of certain stocks.
Members insisted that they never traded on information that was not public, and some Congressional leaders pointed out that their investments were in blind trusts managed by professional advisers. Nonetheless, the publicity led some 90 members of Congress to call anew for a ban on insider trading.
Mr. Pastor, the Arizona congressman, said he never relied on fancy stock investments to make money. He said the key to his good fortune was watching what he spends, paying off debts and, at age 68, collecting Social Security and a pension from his days as a county supervisor.
''I don't see myself as a man of great wealth,'' he said. ''To say that I'm enjoying a millionaire's lifestyle -- well, I can tell you, I guess a millionaire's income doesn't go very far these days.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: A Growing Divide Between Congress and Constituents While Americans saw their net worth fall by 8 percent from 2004 to 2010, members of Congress enjoyed a 15 percent jump. Nearly half are worth at least $1 million, and 10 are estimated to have $100 million or more. (Sources: Center for Responsive Politics
 Moody's Analytics) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); TAX LAW (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); POLITICS (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (69%); LOTTERIES (68%); MARRIAGE (66%); ETHICS (63%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (56%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (54%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%)

PERSON: ED PASTOR (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1099 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Gingrich Looks for Way Onto Virginia Ballot

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

 BODY:
6:03 p.m. Updated Continuing to smart from its failure to get on the primary ballot in Virginia, Newt Gingrich's campaign said it would explore ways to persuade the Republican Party of Virginia to bend its rules and allow Mr. Gingrich and Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, who also failed to qualify, to join the only two names now on the ballot: Mitt Romney and Ron Paul. 
''It does call into question whether or not there are some flaws in the system,'' said R. C. Hammond, a spokesman for Mr. Gingrich. He said he hoped that either Mr. Gingrich would appear on the March 6 primary ballot or that there would be a provision to write in his name.
But the primary rules are set by statute, and experts said Mr. Gingrich's prospects were all but nil, requiring either an emergency act of the state legislature or a court ruling. To change the state's election law on such short notice would require supermajorities in both houses once they reconvene Jan. 11. Ballots must be printed Jan. 21. Even though Republicans have a supermajority in the House, the Senate is evenly split 20-20 between the Democratic and Republican Parties.
The chances of a court ruling that would put Mr. Gingrich on the ballot or allow a write-in ''seems like an incredibly long shot,'' said Carl Tobias, a professor at the University of Richmond School of Law. ''The courts are not likely to act on an emergency basis to entertain his suit. Maybe there's a constitutional problem with Virginia laws, but I doubt a court would rule that way.''
The Gingrich campaign, after first announcing that it had gathered enough signatures to qualify for the Virginia primary ballot, was embarrassed when the organizers of the vote said the campaign had missed the mark, and that there was no provision for a write-in.
The Gingrich campaign drew criticism over the Christmas weekend for comparing the failure to get on the ballot to the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor.
''Newt and I agreed that the analogy is December 1941: We have experienced an unexpected setback, but we will regroup and refocus with increased determination, commitment and positive action,'' the national campaign director, Michael Krull, wrote on the campaign's Facebook page. The failure pointed to hurdles in organizing that have beset the campaign since Mr. Gingrich suddenly surged to become a leading candidate, without the infrastructure that better-financed and -organized rivals have had in place.
The next test of the Gingrich organization begins in Dubuque, Iowa, on Tuesday, when Mr. Gingrich kicks off a nine-day bus tour of the state to highlight his economic agenda. It was originally announced as a 44-stop barnstorming tour, but the schedule has been scaled back to about three stops a day. This will be the first time Mr. Gingrich has traveled by campaign bus. He also plans to let members of the news media aboard what the campaign earlier dubbed, in jest, the ''Newt Talk Express.''
Also riding along will be family members of Mr. Gingrich and his wife, Callista. Mrs. Gingrich's mother, Bernita Bisek, who lives in Wisconsin, will be aboard at the start of the tour.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BALLOTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); WORLD WAR II (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (92%); RICK PERRY (57%); MITT ROMNEY (57%); RON PAUL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1100 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The New Old Age)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: More on the Nursing Home Exodus

BYLINE: PAULA SPAN


HIGHLIGHT: Older adults who move out of nursing homes fare better than might be expected, a new report has found. 

 BODY:
The intensifying federal effort to move people out of nursing homes and into the community has brought both consternation and applause among readers here.
On the one hand, some family members clearly dread the new requirement that residents be asked, once each quarter (unless they opt to hear the question annually instead), whether they'd like information on how to move back into "the community."
I could practically hear Curios from Brooklyn groaning: "How many of us have pleaded, negotiated with our elderly parents to move into a situation where their physical and emotional safety is better cared for?"
And I can almost picture Susan in Washington State nodding vigorously: "It can only cause confusion, anger, and/or other hard feelings if the answer, as can be expected, is 'Yes!'" A number of commenters also lamented that the very support services required for such transitions -- transit, meal delivery, adult day programs -- are being cut back in their cities and states.
Yet the saga of 92-year-old Edwin Murphy, back home in his Albuquerque apartment, happily reading his Bible and watching "Jeopardy!," drew some cheers. Maybe some folks can pull it off.
It's encouraging to begin to see the larger picture as several national studies indicate that Money Follows the Person, the official name of the federal grants underwriting many of these transitions for Medicaid recipients, does appear to allow some older nursing home residents to move out successfully.
After a slow start in 2007, when the federal money began flowing, the program's pace is picking up. Some 43 states and the District of Columbia now receive Money Follows the Person grants, which, according to a survey by the Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured, have helped nearly 17,000 people move out of nursing homes. (Community living, by this definition, includes assisted living and small group homes.)
Most of those exiting aren't elderly; they're younger people with disabilities, say both the Kaiser survey and a series of reports by Mathematica Policy Research in Cambridge, Mass., a nonpartisan research firm. Only about a third of those moving out are over age 65. They're not the oldest old, either: Mathematica's report last summer on about 1,300 elderly Money Follows the Person recipients found that the greatest number were under age 75 and only 20 percent were over age 85. So Mr. Murphy was an outlier.
It's also true that older people are somewhat more likely than younger adults to find that they can't manage the transition and to move back into nursing homes. Mathematica found that almost 14 percent of the elderly returned to institutions within a year (and about 11 percent died), compared with a rate of about 9 percent for the whole sample.
"The elderly tend to be more frail, perhaps, and more difficult to put services in place for," Carol Irvin, a Mathematica senior researcher, told me in an interview. "There are lots of reasons why people can't continue to live in the community."
Such problems tend to appear early in the experiment. Elderly participants who moved back into nursing homes did so within four to five months on average, this early data shows.
Over all, though, Dr. Irvin saw evidence that local agencies working on transitions for older adults are doing a decent job. "To keep 75 percent in the community for a year, they should congratulate themselves," she said. And the Kaiser report found that supporting the elderly participants after their transition proved quite economical, costing on average $2,130 a month. Even in low cost-of-living states, nursing home costs far outstrip that.
But are the older people happy in their new quarters? Despite our national conviction that nursing homes are hellish places anyone would want to flee, most of the 803 participants surveyed in another Mathematica study said they had been satisfied with their lives in nursing homes: 58 percent over all, and 53 percent of the elderly. "I was somewhat surprised," Dr. Irvin confessed.
Still, they were happier after they'd moved out. A year later, the older people reported greater satisfaction with their lives, better care and a greater sense of control and choice.
Because this is a small sample that underrepresents older adults, we should view these findings with caution. "As more data come in, we'll see whether these results hold up over time," Dr. Irvin said. "And we'll use more rigorous techniques."
As an early report card, though, this research makes the move out of a nursing home -- for some older people, in some situations -- sound both possible and rewarding. Money Follows the Person, originally scheduled to wind down this year, has been reauthorized through 2016. Let's see how it goes.

        
A Helping Hand, Paid on Commission
        
Assisted Living or a Nursing Home?
        
Mean Girls in Assisted Living
        
The Last Place She Expected to Be
        
Finding the Right Home - and Contentment, Too

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NURSING HOMES (92%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); AGING (90%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (90%); FAMILY (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); MEDICAID (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); ADULT DAY CARE (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%) assisted living; community; Nursing Homes; Elder Care; Elderly; Housing

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1101 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: New Yorkers' Life Expectancy Reaches 80.6 Years, Higher Than National Rate

BYLINE: KATE TAYLOR


HIGHLIGHT: Being born in New York City increases a child's chances of having a long life. 

 BODY:
The life expectancy for babies born in New York City reached 80.6 years in 2009, the highest level recorded and one that surpasses the national life expectancy rate, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said Tuesday.
Life expectancy at birth in the city has increased nearly three years since 2000; the latest figure is more than two years higher than the most recently reported national rate, 78.2 years.
"Today, newborn New Yorkers can expect to live longer, healthier lives than ever before," Mr. Bloomberg said at a news conference in the maternity ward of Lincoln Hospital in the Bronx.
Life expectancy for 40-year-olds in the city also increased, to 82 years in 2009 from 79.5 years in 2000, a gain of 2.5 years, compared with an increase of 1.2 years for the same age group nationwide. New Yorkers who are 70 saw their life expectancy increase 1.5 years, to 86.9, compared with 0.7 years, to 85.1, for the same age group nationwide.
"If you have friends and relatives that you deeply care about and they live elsewhere, on average if they move to New York City, they will live longer," the mayor said.
Mr. Bloomberg has made public health one of his top policy priorities and has run high-profile campaigns against smoking, obesity and the consumption of salt.
The biggest factor in New Yorkers' increased life expectancy, however, was unrelated to any of those efforts. Instead, officials attributed it to expanded H.I.V. testing and treatment, which resulted in a substantially reduced death rate from H.I.V. and AIDS. The mortality rate from H.I.V. infection in 2010 fell by 11.3 percent since 2009, and by 51.9 percent since 2002.
Other significant factors in the increased life expectancy are a decline in deaths from heart disease and cancer, a decline in drug-related deaths and a decline in infant mortality.
For much of the 20th century, New Yorkers lagged behind other Americans in life expectancy. The difference was greatest in 1990, when the AIDS crisis dragged down life expectancy in New York, particularly for men. The tide turned around 2000, when New York's life-expectancy rate began surpassing the national rate.
The new life-expectancy figures were released by the city's Department of Health and Mental Hygiene on Tuesday as part of its Summary of Vital Statistics.
Here are other notable findings in the report:
* Deaths from car accidents declined by 5.6 percent since 2009 and by 32.0 percent from 2001.
* Deaths attributable to smoking in adults 35 or older decreased by 19.9 percent since 2002.
* Birth rates among teenage mothers decreased by 32.5 percent since 2001.
* Birth rates among women ages 30 to 39 increased by 17.8 percent since 2001, and, among women 40 to 44 years of age, increased by 33.3 percent since 2001.
* The abortion rate fell slightly, to 38 percent of all pregnancies from 41 percent in 2009.
* Two illnesses, essential hypertension and hypertensive renal disease, appeared for the first time on the list of the top 10 causes of death, at No. 7. Deaths because of these illnesses increased by 10.5 percent since 2009 and by 30.3 percent since 2001. The increase was greatest among blacks, with the diseases accounting for 42 deaths per 100,000 people, the highest age-adjusted rate among all ethnic groups and nearly four times the rate for whites.
The city's health commissioner, Dr. Thomas A. Farley, said through a spokesman that the increase in deaths from these illnesses was possibly because of increases in salt intake or increases in rates of diabetes linked to obesity.

        
Mayor Criticizes Judge for Releasing Murder Suspect
        
In Latest Gun Inquiry, City Finds Willing Sellers Online
        
Walking Again, With Help From an Exoskeleton
        
In Doling Out Economic Incentives, Bloomberg Looks Outside Manhattan
        
Even in Jerusalem, Thoughts Stray to Zuccotti Park

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LIFE EXPECTANCY (93%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (91%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); INFANT MORTALITY (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); OBESITY (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); WOMEN (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); SMOKING (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (70%); ADOLESCENTS (67%); AIDS & HIV TESTING (64%); MENTAL HEALTH (64%); CANCER (64%); HEART DISEASE (63%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%) Dr. Thomas Farley; Health; life expectancy; Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg; Bloomberg, Michael R; Farley, Thomas A; Babies and Infants; Longevity; Medicine and Health; Health and Mental Hygiene Department (NYC); New York City; Health and Hospitals; Highlights

ORGANIZATION: Health and Mental Hygiene Department (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%) Bloomberg, Michael R; Farley, Thomas A

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2011



1102 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The 6th Floor)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Our Top Ten Photo Books of 2011

BYLINE: THE PHOTO DEPARTMENT


HIGHLIGHT: It was not unlike a political caucus. The candidates - in this case, nearly 100 photography books published this year - took over every inch of available counter space in the photo department, where they were carefully scrutinized by a group of opinionated voters, each of whom was given just 10 Post-it notes as ballots. 

 BODY:
It was not unlike a political caucus. The candidates - in this case, nearly 100 photography books published this year - took over every inch of available counter space in the photo department, where they were carefully scrutinized by a group of opinionated voters, each of whom was given just 10 Post-it notes as ballots. Impassioned speeches were made. Votes were cast: a few books grew polychromatic bouquets of Post-its - each voter had his or her own individual color - while others sprouted single lonely Post-its. Votes were changed: worthy candidates, including the likes of Diana Vreeland and Gerhard Richter, were abandoned. Finally, after weeks, a group of winners emerged. Like all campaigns, it was brutal. Here are the 10 victors, in no particular order.
"In the Picture: Self-Portraits, 1958-2011" (Yale University Press) by Lee Friedlander
Self-documentation and self-promotion are now so pervasive that it's easy to forget they aren't just contemporary impulses. There is Lee Friedlander, stepping into the frame in 1966, holding the camera at arm's length in a posture that has been replicated millions of times since. There he is in Arizona in 1993, pressing his head against a cactus. His shadow looms over scenes in Kentucky, Denver, New Orleans. We see him in the I.C.U. after bypass surgery. Gazing at his grandchildren. Standing with Maria. Through decades of keen observations of the American cultural landscape, Friedlander has been methodically, relentlessly and endearingly documenting himself. "In the Picture," Friedlander's fifth book of self-portraits, celebrates the pleasures of looking back at a life well seen.
"Permanent Error" (Prestel), by Pieter Hugo
A series of documentary portraits and landscapes at a dumping ground for obsolete computers and electronics in Ghana (some of which were published in The New York Times Magazine in 2010). A young man carries a tangle of wires over his head. A group of cattle graze as a plume of smoke billows in the background. Clusters of men stand next to piles of burning electronics. Workers "harvest" precious metals from First World e-waste. Hugo's pictures expose the underbelly of the digital revolution, confront us with the consequences of the electronic age.
"The Unseen Eye" (Aperture), by W.M. Hunt
The one volume on our list that isn't "by" a photographer. Instead, Hunt is a collector, and has been for more than 30 years. His is a curious collection: all of his photographs are about concealed or obscured eyes. As a result, his book, which draws only from his collection, is all about the role the viewer plays in photography and what it means to look at pictures. With works from photographers like Brassai, Joel Peter Witkin, Cindy Sherman, Alexandra Boulat, Adam Fuss, it is also an impressive survey of photography from the 19th century to the present.
"Illuminance" (Aperture), by Rinko Kawauchi
This is Kawauchi's 12th book, but the first published outside Japan. Kawauchi is a master at grasping dreamlike moments, both profound and banal, with incredible detail: swirling surf, a translucent small frog perched on the edge of a hand, a child intensely focusing on a tiny speck on the sidewalk. As David Chandler writes in an essay that accompanies Kawauchi's pictures, which were taken over the last 15 years, "Recorded are the rhythms of this life, rather than its set pieces: a breath, a touch, and a glance, the things that happen inside the moment and that can never be clearly seen."
"Vivian Maier: Street Photographer" (Powerhouse), by Vivian Maier
Maier never worked as a professional photographer; she made her living mainly as a nanny for well-to-do families on Chicago's North Shore. But photography was clearly her calling. In this collection of pictures, shot from the 1950s to the 1990s, for the most part on the streets of Chicago and New York (but also in a number of foreign countries), she demonstrates an incredible eye for composition, certain slants of light, interesting faces and the revelatory caught moment. Maier didn't achieve any measure of fame during her lifetime - she died in 2009 at the age of 83 - but the photographs, which were discovered in 2007, have since been exhibited to rave reviews at galleries in the United States and in Europe.
"You and I" (Twin Palms), by Ryan McGinley
They are bounding through fireworks. Falling through the air. Climbing through trees, waterfalls, caves and rooftops. Laughing and embracing. In this long-awaited collection of McGinley's first decade of work as a photographer, the sublime madness of youth fills each page. Every bit as striking and evident, however, is the sense of McGinley constantly experimenting, pushing, making pictures without antecedent.
"Magnum: Contact Sheets" (Thames & Hudson)
An extraordinary window into the editing process that goes into photojournalism. Arranged chronologically, the book gives readers the chance to study the contact sheets, marked-up by editors and the photographers themselves, that yielded some of the most iconic images in the Magnum archive. Accompanying text fills in the story behind the shoots. An absolute must-have for students, editors and lovers of photography.
"Redheaded Peckerwood" (Mack), by Christian Patterson
Patterson takes his inspiration from the story of Charles Starkweather and Caril Ann Fugate, an Eisenhower-era teenage couple who murdered 10 people in Nebraska over three days before they were captured by authorities. Patterson, who approaches their story "as a poet and a gumshoe," in the words of Luc Sante, whose essay accompanies the book, combines historical photographs, documents and his own creative wanderings into an unsettling dance between evidence and myth.
"Mom & Dad" (Morel Books), by Terry Richardson
Richardson shifts his focus from fashion models and commerce to his parents - and the result is fascinating. There's one volume for his mom and one for his dad, and they seem like equally kooky and troubled characters. Most striking are the photos of Richardson's frail, bohemian-looking mom, smiling, topless, smoking, giving the finger, surrounded by her knick knacks, and generally looking like she would be a hoot to hang out with, and the photos of his dad's ominous messages scrawled on the walls of his apartment ("I think my son is in danger"). We get two biographies told entirely through photos, and an autobiography of the photographer himself that's almost painfully revealing.
"Is This Place Great or What" (Aperture/Cleveland Museum of Art), by Brian Ulrich
A blunt assessment of Americans' obsession with consumption. In 2001, after 9/11, Ulrich was struck by a speech in which President Bush linked "the vitality of the American economy" with "the willingness of Americans to spend." The first two chapters, "Retail" and "Thrift," of the ensuing project were photographed before the financial crisis of 2008. The final chapter, "Dark Stores," which was started that year, examines the fallout of the Great Recession and serves as a sobering coda to the earlier work.

        
Nature Triumphant
        
Alaska, Texas and the Wide Sky Between
        
Our Teenage Photographer of Teenage Lust
        
It's Not About Them. It's About the Sad Stuff
        
Spot the Other Artistic Giant on the Cover

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (64%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (51%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%) Photography; Bush, George W; Friedlander, Lee; Fuss, Adam; Maier, Vivian; McGinley, Ryan; Sante, Luc; Sherman, Cindy; Vreeland, Diana; Books and Literature; Aperture Foundation; Magnum Photos; Chicago (Ill)

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (56%) Aperture Foundation; Magnum Photos

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

PERSON: Bush, George W; Friedlander, Lee; Fuss, Adam; Maier, Vivian; McGinley, Ryan; Sante, Luc; Sherman, Cindy; Vreeland, Diana

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) GHANA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011



1103 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: A Drum Mecca Prepares to Close Up Shop

BYLINE: COLIN MOYNIHAN


HIGHLIGHT: Drummers World on West 46th Street, a music store that was well known among musicians from many different genres, can no longer keep its doors open. 

 BODY:
For years Drummers World on West 46th Street was a destination for percussionists of all stripes. Numerous jazz drummers made trips there. Roadies for famous touring bands stopped by. People involved with Broadway productions bought instruments. Even members of symphony orchestras traveled to the shop to find equipment.
At one point in the past decade, there were three drum stores on the block of 46th Street between Avenue of the Americas and Seventh Avenue. Soon, that number will be reduced to zero. Wednesday is the last day of business for Drummers World, which opened on West 45th Street in 1979 and moved to 46th Street 11 years later.
On Tuesday morning the store's founder and owner, Barry Greenspon, sat at his desk talking about its history. Photographs of patrons like Elvin Jones and Paul Motian hung from the walls, as well as a picture of Mr. Greenspon himself, taken more than 40 years ago, showing him sitting at a drum set, wearing a white button-down shirt and swinging a pair of sticks.
"I have a lot of good memories," he said. "It was more than a business; it was a blessing."
Mr. Greenspon said he opened the drum store because he knew of no shop in Manhattan at the time that stocked lesser-known instruments along with standard drum kits. So he filled his store with gongs, djembes, vibraphones, marimbas and pandeiros, among other uncommon instruments.
Drummers would show up to buy an item, he said, and sometimes end up enamored with the sound of an instrument they had never heard before.
Bill Bruford, a drummer for the 1970s progressive rock bands Yes and King Crimson who went on to form a jazz band called Earthworks, was among those who stopped by. A photograph of him hangs on the wall next to photos of other visitors, including Mel Lewis, an orchestra leader known for a 23-year run at the Village Vanguard, and Louie Bellson, who played solos with Duke Ellington. Once, Mr. Greenspon said, he received a visit from a roadie for Charlie Watts of the Rolling Stones.
Chris Lamb, the head percussionist for the New York Philharmonic, said the store provided a place for drummers to share experiences and knowledge. "A community of drummers would met and hang out and discover new things," he said. "There are not a lot of places like that."
There is no single reason the store is closing, Mr. Greenspon said, but there are plenty of contributing factors. For instance, there is the conglomeratization of the instrument business, in which chain retailers with deep pockets have elbowed out smaller competitors. And there is the reality that many people these days prefer to buy their equipment from online merchants.
That's all well and good, Mr. Greenspon said, but you can't feel the tension in a snare skin or test the heft of a mallet through a modem connection. And you cannot experience the same sense of discovery gazing at a Web page that you can while browsing through shop shelves, he said.
"It's kind of a message that a store like this is closing," Mr. Greenspon said. "It eliminates the possibility of seeing an exotic instrument you've never seen before and becoming enthralled by it."
On top of everything else, Mr. Greenspon said, the faltering economy made it difficult for him to pay his rent, $14,000 a month, and forced his customers to economize.
At one time, he said, people helping to run Broadway musicals like "The Lion King" and "Mamma Mia" would walk from theaters to buy triangles, timpani and other items. But he said newer productions were taking a different tack.
"Now they rent their instruments," he said. "They don't know how long the play will last."
As noon approached on Tuesday, a few customers browsed in the partly emptied shop. Among them was Takashi Inoue, 25, a jazz drummer from Harlem. He said that he had not visited the store often but knew its reputation among musicians.
"This is the last store for professional drummers," he said. "The others are for kids or hobbyists."
A few moments later, Mr. Greenspon pointed to an odd-looking item that at first glance appeared to be a cog from a piece of machinery. It featured a circular hollow steel base as well as upright brass prongs of various lengths.
Mr. Greenspon explained that it was called an aquasonic. Water is poured into the base, he said, and the player draws a cello bow across the prongs.
As he demonstrated it, an ethereal sound filled the shop, and a customer standing nearby looked up from the equipment he was examining to smile in appreciation.

        
Beyond Patience and Fortitude, an Incursion of Decibels
        
A Salon for Musicians Big and Small
        
A Market for Meat and Melodies
        
Noted Composer, Who Leapt Into Atonality, Meows Her Last
        
Sushi, With Opera for Dessert

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSIC (92%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (92%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); THEATER (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT & SUPPLY STORES (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); MUSIC GENRES (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (77%); RETAILERS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); INTERNET RETAILING (72%); HISTORY (71%) Music; Musical Instruments; Manhattan (NYC); Highlights; Local History

COMPANY: WALLS AS (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (69%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1104 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: Madrid Joins Cities Replacing Concrete With Greenery

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Another city replaces clogged corridors of asphalt and concrete with green space. 

 BODY:
I have to make note of the fascinating article by Michael Kimmelman in The Times describing Madrid's ambitious reinvention of what Kimmelman describes as a "crippling gash" of aging riverside highway lanes as a green swath that one resident calls "new lungs." (The video above, produced by the city, provides background on the project.)
Here's the nut of Kimmelman's piece and a link to the rest: 
The park here, called Madrid Rio, has largely been finished. More than six miles long, it transforms a formerly neglected area in the middle of Spain's capital. Its creation, in four years, atop a complex network of tunnels dug to bury an intrusive highway, also rejuvenates a long-lost stretch of the Manzanares River, and in so doing knits together neighborhoods that the highway had cut off from the city center. [Read on.]
 If you have time, click back to my 2009 report from the center of Seoul, South Korea, which accomplished perhaps the world's most ambitious "daylighting" project, exposing a long buried stream hidden for decades under a tangle of overpasses, and my related post on efforts by Yonkers, N.Y., to expose the long-buried Sawmill River. That project is slowly moving ahead despite the struggling economy.
This is indeed "The Century of the City," as the Rockefeller Foundation concluded, and making sure cities remain nurturing spaces, both for humans and other life, is a good way to foster human advancement on a finite planet.
Explore more efforts along these lines on the excellent blog "The City Fix." 

        
A River Runs Under It
        
Alex Steffen, a Designing Optimist
        
A Turkish Builder on Istanbul's Deadly Buildings
        
Building Safer, but Cheaply, in Quake Zones
        
A Day in the Park(ing Space)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (66%) cities; daylighting; Design; parks; spain; urban planning; Madrid (Spain); Transportation

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (97%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (68%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (65%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) SPAIN (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Madrid (Spain)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2011



1105 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: Bacteria 1, F.D.A. 0

BYLINE: MARK BITTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: We need to free our meat supply from bacteria that antibiotics can't treat. 

 BODY:
Earlier this month, the Maine-based grocery chain Hannaford issued a ground beef recall after at least 14 people were infected with an antibiotic-resistant strain of salmonella. Chances are this is the first you've heard of it. After all, it's not much compared to the 76 illnesses and one death back in August that led Cargill to recall almost 36 pounds of ground turkey products potentially contaminated with drug-resistant salmonella. The particulars get confusing, but the trend is unmistakable: our meat supply is frequently contaminated with bacteria that can't readily be treated by antibiotics.
A study earlier this year by a nonprofit research center in Phoenix analyzed 80 brands of beef, pork, chicken and turkey from five cities and found that 47 percent contained staphylococcus aureus, a bacteria that can cause anything from minor skin infections to pneumonia and sepsis, more technically called systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS), and commonly known as blood poisoning - but no matter what you call it, plenty scary. Of those bacteria, 52 percent were resistant to at least three classes of antibiotics. So when you go to the supermarket to buy one of these brands of pre-ground meat products, there's a roughly 25 percent chance you'll consume a potentially fatal bacteria that doesn't respond to commonly prescribed drugs.

It's not like this is happening without a reason; the little germs have plenty of practice fighting the drugs designed to kill them in the industrially raised animals to which antibiotics are routinely fed. And although it's economical for producers to drug animals prophylactically

        
No Food Safety in These Numbers
        
Life in the Third Realm
        
Microbes 'R' Us
        
Meet the Intraterrestrials

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BACTERIA (94%); ANTIBIOTICS (94%); MEATS (92%); FOOD RECALLS (90%); PRODUCT RECALLS (90%); BEEF (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE (90%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); DRUG RESISTANCE (78%); BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS (77%); POULTRY (77%); SKIN DISORDERS (76%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (73%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (73%); PORK (72%); POISONINGS (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (71%); PNEUMONIA (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%) antibiotics; bacteria; FDA; recalls; the food supply; Recalls and Bans of Products; Food and Drug Administration; Mark Bittman

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%) Food and Drug Administration

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1106 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: The Worst C.E.O.'s of 2011

BYLINE: SYDNEY FINKELSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: How do you go from being one of the country's most-renowned and respected business leaders to landing on the list of the Worst C.E.O.'s of 2011? With arrogance, complacency and bumbling, says Sydney Finkelstein, an author and professor at Dartmouth College. 

 BODY:
How do you go from being one of the country's most-renowned and respected business leaders to landing on the list of the Worst C.E.O.'s of 2011? Did the glory go to your head, so that you believed you knew more than everyone else? Did you take your eye off the ball because you thought all was well in the kingdom? Or was it that staying on top was just so darn difficult that there was only one way to go? 
This year, there was a little of each. Arrogant chief executives, like the pair at the top of Research in Motion, Mike Lazaridis and Jim Balsillie, and of course Jon S. Corzine, late of MF Global. Complacent chiefs, like William C. Weldon at the bellwether Johnson & Johnson. And what of Reed Hastings, the much-maligned boss at Netflix? Chalk that up to his bumbling response to the forces of creative destruction at work.
 What do you do when your core product is under attack by newer, sexier innovations? For Mr. Lazaridis and Mr. Balsillie, you double down on the BlackBerry, even when iPhone and the Android hordes keep taking market share away. 
In some ways, this was predictable. The pair, who founded RIM, became extraordinarily wealthy because of the BlackBerry, and it's hard to shift gears in the midst of great success. Rather than take heed of the winds of change, you denigrate the opposition (Apple) and the naysayers (everyone else). You retain a co-chief structure that shares the twin attributes of being particularly bad at devising and conveying a cohesive strategy yet particularly good at controlling the board of directors. Despite constant calls for cancellation, the Mike and Jim show continues. 
For those keeping score at home, 2011 was the year of the disastrous BlackBerry outages, the badly mishandled introduction of the company's tablet, Mr. Balsillie's failed pursuit of an N.H.L. franchise and the destruction of some 70 percent of shareholder value. 
If Mike and Jim were arrogant, what do we say about Mr. Corzine? Mr. Corzine took over a muddling, conservative financial institution and transformed it in his own image, a (very) mini Goldman Sachs. Single-handedly, Mr. Corzine created an aggressive trading machine that would bet the company on European sovereign debt. He was convinced that he was right, chief risk officers notwithstanding. 
And, apparently, the trade that brought MF Global down did not lose money. However, in the post-financial crisis, regulators saw the trade for what it was, demanded more collateral that the firm didn't have, and the run on the bank was on. It takes a special type of person to believe that the rules don't apply to him, but in the end they always do.
Complicating matters is the little detail about the missing billions of dollars, and while I don't know what Mr. Corzine knew and didn't know about this, his repeated denials in Congressional testimony only reinforces perceptions of arrogance.
The most complacent chief executive in America has got to be Mr. Weldon of Johnson & Johnson. And maybe the luckiest as well, because he remains in his corner office despite an incredible collection of product recalls from all corners of the company: insulin pumps, syringes, hip implants, sutures, contact lenses, Tylenol (!), Benadryl, Rolaids, the list goes on. 
Johnson & Johnson is a highly decentralized organization, so it is unusual to see so many breakdowns in product quality and safety because they span such a wide range of businesses. When this happens, responsibility must surely rest at the very top of the enterprise, with Mr. Weldon and the culture he has set in place. Mr. Weldon is almost the Tony Hayward of 2011, though unlike after BP's disastrous Gulf oil spill, Johnson & Johnson keeps trucking along. But at some point the Teflon will start to wear off, and these mistakes will stick. 
My final entry in the Worst C.E.O.'s of 2011 is Reed Hastings of Netflix. And if ever a chief executive found himself in the midst of what the economist Joseph Schumpeter called creative destruction, it is Mr. Hastings. New businesses destroy old ones, and in this way innovation and capitalism progress. Certainly that's the story of the demise of Blockbuster at the hands of Netflix. 
In 2011, Mr. Hastings took on the challenge directly by splitting Netflix into two parts, the original DVD mail-order business and the emerging online streaming business. Rather than ignore change, like the co-chiefs at RIM, Mr. Hastings wanted to increase the viability of the newer streaming business by removing it from the traditional business that it was meant to usurp. Unfortunately, he also decided to aggressively increase prices, complicate the customer experience and then partially backtrack on the whole thing when an onslaught of bad press ensued. In an instant, Netflix went from beloved icon of innovation to just another big, bad company ripping off customers, and the company's stock is down almost 70 percent.
Unfortunately, Netflix has even bigger problems than customer outrage at price increases. It has no proprietary technology, is facing numerous well-financed competitors like Amazon, Google and the cable and satellite companies and no longer has sweetheart deals to buy content from movie studios, which were eager for another player step in. It may turn out that Netflix becomes the next Blockbuster in good times, and bad.
The lessons of failure that come from the Worst C.E.O.'s of 2011 are the same as they've always been. Those things that get you to the top, if left unchanged, will also lead to your eventual downfall. Alas, this is as true for the chroniclers of the ancient Greek tragedies as it is for the architects of the business tragedies of today. 
An earlier version of this post referred incorrectly to the termination of the tablet released by Research in Motion. The tablet, called PlayBook, is still available.

        
The Biggest Losers: MF Global and Netflix
        
'Twas the Week After Layoffs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); RISK MANAGEMENT (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); MARKET SHARE (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION (61%) Jim Balsillie; Johnson & Johnson; Jon S. Corzine; MF Global; Mike Lazaridis; Netflix; Reed Hastings; Research in Motion; William C. Weldon; Corzine, Jon S; Hastings, Reed; Weldon, William C; MF Global Ltd; Netflix Inc; Research in Motion Ltd; Balsillie, Jim; Lazaridis, Mike; Johnson & Johnson|JNJ|NYSE; Netflix Inc|NFLX|NASDAQ; Another View; Corporate Governance

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (69%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (57%); NETFLIX INC (56%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (56%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (59%) Johnson & Johnson; MF Global Ltd; Netflix Inc; Research in Motion Ltd

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (69%); RIM (TSX) (57%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (57%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (56%); GS (NYSE) (55%) Johnson & Johnson; JNJ; NYSE; Johnson & Johnson; JNJ; NYSE; Netflix Inc; NFLX; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (69%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (56%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: WILLIAM C WELDON (94%); JAMES BALSILLIE (90%); JON CORZINE (90%); REED HASTINGS (90%) Corzine, Jon S; Hastings, Reed; Weldon, William C

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1107 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: Toyota Introduces Compact Hybrid to Japanese Market

BYLINE: CARLA BARANAUCKAS


HIGHLIGHT: The automobile, which will be sold as the Toyota Aqua in Japan, will eventually be available in other markets, including the United States, as the Prius C. 

 BODY:
On Monday, the Toyota Motor Corporation introduced a compact gasoline/electric hybrid vehicle for its home market. The car, which will be sold as the Toyota Aqua in Japan, was introduced at a Tokyo news conference and will eventually be available in other markets, including the United States, as the Prius C.
The Aqua is built on a 102-inch wheelbase and is equipped with a 72-horsepower 1.5-liter gasoline engine and a 60-horsepower electric motor that draws power from a nickel-metal hydride battery. Toyota, in a media release, cited a zero to 100 km/h (62 m.p.h.) acceleration of 10.7 seconds.
The Aqua achieves 35.4 kilometers on a liter of fuel in Japan's JC08 test cycle. That compares with 32.6 kilometers a liter for the Prius, which has a wheelbase of 111 inches and more power. Based on those figures, the Aqua is about 8.5 percent more fuel efficient than the Prius. If that ratio holds true for the United States.-market Prius C, it could hit an E.P.A. combined fuel economy rating of about 54 m.p.g.
Standard equipment for the Japan-market Aqua includes antilock brakes, vehicle stability control, traction control, air-conditioning and heated seats. Upgrade packages include such features as a backup camera, six-speaker stereo system and an advanced instrument panel display. The most basic Aqua model is priced at 1.69 million yen, which is about $21,600. The Prius starts at 2.17 million yen in Japan, or about $27,800.
Toyota hopes to sell 12,000 Aquas a month in its home market. A United States introduction date and pricing for the Prius C have not been announced

        
Wheelies: The Me-Too Edition
        
BMW and Toyota to Collaborate on Battery Development
        
Toyota Fun-Vii: The Car as Mobile Mood Ring
        
Toyota and Subaru Preview Their Rear-Wheel-Drive Coupes
        
Wheelies: The Potsdam Bread-Van Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HYBRID VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (91%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ELECTRONIC TRACTION & STABILITY CONTROL (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (78%); ANTILOCK BRAKING SYSTEMS (65%) Prius C; Toyota; Toyota Aqua; Automobiles; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Energy Efficiency; Small Cars (Compact, Subcompact and Microcars); Toyota Motor Corporation; Japan; Toyota Motor Corporation|TM|NYSE; Electric Vehicles; Fuel Efficiency; New Cars

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Toyota Motor Corporation

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (94%); TM (NYSE) (94%); 7203 (TSE) (94%) Toyota Motor Corporation; TM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2011



1108 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: After Weak Holiday, Sears to Shut 120 Stores

BYLINE: AZAM AHMED


HIGHLIGHT: The closings represent a fraction of the total stores, but they underscore the retailer's precarious financial position. 

 BODY:
Christmas was anything but merry for Sears Holdings. 
On Tuesday, the retailer, which operates both Sears and Kmart stores, announced plans to shut up to 120 locations after a sharp drop in sales this holiday season.
While the closings represent a fraction of the total stores, they underscore the retailer's precarious financial position. The company, which has been slow to renovate rundown stores and improve customer service, expects earnings to fall by more than 50 percent in the fourth quarter, far worse than expected. 
"They're not going out of business tomorrow. But here is a company that is deteriorating in front of our eyes, and it could cost a lot of jobs," said Gary Balter, an analyst at Credit Suisse. "Somebody should be worried about that."
Sears has been limping along for years. 
In 2005, the hedge fund manager Edward S. Lampert pushed the retailer to merge with Kmart, figuring that the combination would realize savings and bolster profits. His bet drew comparisons to the strategy of Warren E. Buffett, the chairman of Berkshire Hathaway, who takes concentrated positions in companies that he believed would increase in value and generate cash. Sears Holdings was thought to be something of a Berkshire vehicle - a public entity through which to acquire businesses.
But the merger has been an albatross for Mr. Lampert, who is chairman of Sears. Since their 2007 peak, shares in Sears had dropped from $192 to less than $46 in December. On Tuesday, the stock fell 27 percent, to close at $33.38.
"The customer just doesn't think of Sears at the top of their mind anymore," said Mary Ross Gilbert, a managing director at Imperial Capital.
The weakness stands in contrast to competitors, which have seen a steady improvement in sales. Macy's, Target and Home Depot have all increased revenues through the third quarter. Sears reported a loss during the same period. 
Even J. C. Penney, facing its own woes, shows signs of revitalization. In June, the retailer hired Ron Johnson, the mastermind behind Apple's retail strategy, as its chief executive. This month, J. C. Penney bought a stake in Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, with plans to introduce in-store boutiques around the home brand. Shares of J. C. Penney are up 10 percent this year.
The holiday season has been especially dark for Sears. So far this quarter, same-store sales are off 5.2 percent at Sears and Kmart locations that have been open for more than a year. By comparison, the industry is expecting holiday sales to rise 3.8 percent, according to the National Retail Federation.
Sears's main customer base - typically more working class - has been hit hard in the current economic downturn. Many have put off big-ticket purchases like home appliances until the employment outlook improves.
 "Sears is one of the top appliance sellers in the United States," said Paul Swinand, an analyst at Morningstar. But "appliances and electronics have been doing poorly since the recession."
When the environment does improve, analysts say consumers could still shun Sears. Its uninviting stores and out-of-the-way locations remain a major challenge, and Sears has not invested in overhauling its look. 
The company shells out about 1 percent of revenue on capital expenditures. Competitors like Target, Walmart, Lowe's and Home Depot, meanwhile, spend closer to 2 percent to 3 percent on facilities.
With sales slumping, Sears is looking to close stores to save money. The closings are expected to generate up to $170 million as the company sells inventory. Sears also plans to adopt a more severe approach to closings going forward, rather than trying to improve "marginally performing stores" as the company has done in the past. 
It's part of a broader effort to bolster its balance sheet. Sears plans to reduce its overall inventory, which could bring in another $300 million. It plans to cut fixed costs, which could include rental and administrative expenses, by up to $200 million. 
"These actions will better enable us to focus our investments on serving our customers and members through integrated retail - at the store, online and in the home," Lou D'Ambrosio, the company's chief executive, said in a statement.
 But analysts are not convinced such efforts will be enough. For one, Sears has hefty pension and retirement burdens, which will continue to drain cash. And the company has already tapped a line of credit for $483 million, which it hadn't done at this time last year.
 "I think they are a lot worse than people were thinking," said Mrs. Ross Gilbert of Imperial Capital. "They are really close to a liquidity crisis."

        
Macy's to Review Martha Stewart Relationship
        
New Front in War Between Companies and Hedge Funds

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); HOME CENTERS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); CORPORATE POSITIONING (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ACQUISITIONS (73%); MERGERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); TICKET SALES (72%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (71%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Edward Lampert; Home Depot; J. C. Penney; Macy's; Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia; Sears Holdings; Target; Warren Buffett; Shopping and Retail; JC Penney Company Inc; Sears Holdings Corporation; Lampert, Edward S.; Kmart; Sears Holdings Corporation|SHLD|NASDAQ; JC Penney Company Inc|JCP|NYSE; Hedge Funds; Retail/Leisure; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: KMART CORP (95%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (90%); J C PENNEY CO INC (86%); APPLE INC (63%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (55%); MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: JC Penney Company Inc; Sears Holdings Corporation

TICKER: SHLD (NASDAQ) (90%); JCP (NYSE) (86%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (63%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%); BRK.B (NYSE) (55%); BRK.A (NYSE) (55%); MSO (NYSE) (52%) Sears Holdings Corporation; SHLD; NASDAQ; Sears Holdings Corporation; SHLD; NASDAQ; JC Penney Company Inc; JCP; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (95%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (95%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (90%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (90%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (86%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (86%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (86%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (63%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (63%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (63%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (55%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (55%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (52%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: EDDIE LAMPERT (91%); WARREN BUFFETT (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1109 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: This Year in Small Business: The Best Reads

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: The year's best reading for small-business owners. 

 BODY:
Until I started writing this weekly column, I never realized how many things can affect my small business. And I never realized how many smart people there are writing about and interpreting these things to try to help people like me better understand them. Of all of the pieces I reviewed this year, here are the best.
 BEST ARTICLE ABOUT MAKING MONEY 37Signal's Jason Fried wrote a piece that every business owner should read. A sampling: "People are happy to pay for things that work well. Never be afraid to put a price on something. If you pour your heart into something and make it great, sell it. For real money. Even if there are free options, even if the market is flooded with free. People will pay for things they love."
 BEST SMALL-BUSINESS VIDEO OF THE YEAR I'm a certified public accountant (although not a very good one and that's not how I make my living). As you may have heard, we C.P.A.s are not generally considered the life of the party. But the New Jersey firm of WithumSmith&Brown put that myth to rest with this hilarious video. (Surprisingly, it was made before April 15.) 
 BEST PREDICTION As a business owner with three kids in high school, I agree with PayPal's Peter Thiel when he says the next bubble is higher education: "Parents see kids moving back home after college, and they're thinking, 'Something is not working. This was not part of the deal.'"
 BEST CONFESSION FROM AN ECONOMIST Harvard professor Gregory Mankiw confessed that there was a lot he didn't know about the economy. For example: "A striking feature of today's labor market is the rise of long-term joblessness. The average duration of unemployment is now almost 40 weeks, about twice what it reached in previous recessions. The long-term unemployed may well lose job skills and find their future prospects permanently impaired. But because we are in uncharted waters, it is hard for anyone to be sure."
 BEST EXPLANATION OF ENTREPRENEURIAL SUCCESS My business has hundreds of customers and over the years I've seen a lot of people succeed beyond anyone's expectations. There are times when I wonder how they do it. How do you explain success? Feross Aboukhadijeh, a student at Stanford University, says that none of us really knows what we're doing. "Don't listen to successful entrepreneurs. The folks who succeed have no way to know if their success was due to talent, skill, and planning, or merely dumb luck. If you ask them though, they'll confidently spout reason after reason why they - and no one else - could possibly own 90 percent of the desktop PC market, or whatever they achieved. In their minds, it couldn't have turned out any other way. Most of this is just after-the-fact rationalization, though. The truth is, they succeeded and have no idea why. They're just explaining it in the best way they can."
 BEST COMMENTARY ABOUT WALL STREET: This tweet from the deadly Egyptian Cobra that went missing from the Bronx Zoo in April offered a pithier critique than any of the Occupiers.
 BEST CUSTOMER SERVICE STORY It comes, believe it or not, from Amtrak. Yes, Amtrak. Sarah Green, an associate editor at Harvard Business Review told this tale about an Amtrak employee whose service elicited this response from her: "You'll just do that? Just like that? That's, that's amazing."
 BEST BAD TIPS FOR ENTREPRENEURS When you're a business owner, it sometime seems like everyone is an expert on how to run your business. Matt Krautstrunk lists five terrible tips for entrepreneurs, including my favorite, which challenges the sanctity of the business plan: "Anybody who tells you that you need a business plan either doesn't understand the competitive landscape or is 'old school.' Nowadays, business plans are used primarily for attracting investors, and often fail to account for changing external factors."
 BEST REASON TO BE OPTIMISTIC Foreign Policy magazine's Amy Myers Jaffe believes that it will soon be the Americas, not the Middle East, that will rule energy markets: "By the 2020s, the capital of energy will likely have shifted back to the Western Hemisphere. The U.S. endowment of unconventional oil is more than 2 trillion barrels, with another 2.4 trillion in Canada and 2 trillion-plus in South America - compared with conventional Middle Eastern and North African oil resources of 1.2 trillion. The problem was always how to unlock them economically."
 BEST TIPS FOR LIVING A FULFILLING LIFE Peter Bregman lists three questions that help him live a fulfilling life, including: "What is this day about? How will it bring me one day closer to what I want to achieve for the year? What is most important for me to accomplish today? I set my watch to beep every hour, interrupting myself for one minute to reconnect with my purpose for the day. In that minute, I ask myself two questions: Am I doing what I most need to be doing right now? Am I being who I most want to be right now?"
 BEST REASON NOT TO START COMPANY WITH YOUR SPOUSE Michael Idov opened a charming neighborhood coffee shop, which then destroyed his life. "Within weeks, Lily and I - previously ensconced in an enviably stress-free marriage - were at each other's throats. I hesitate to say which was worse: working the same shift or alternating. Each option presented its own small tortures. Two highly educated professionals with artistic aspirations have just put themselves - or, as we saw it, each other - on $8-per-hour jobs slinging coffee. After four more months, we grew suspicious of each other's motives, obsessively kept track of each other's contributions to the cause ("You worked three days last week!"), and generally waltzed on the edge of divorce. The marriage appears to have been saved by a well-timed bankruptcy."
 BEST CAREER ADVICE FOR FUTURE ENTREPRENEURS Bob Cringely has some advice for his son: "Getting, keeping or making that future job starts with understanding the distribution system and your place in that process. And to survive even mid-term the key is to position yourself as the linchpin. Your knowledge has to be critical to the success or failure of the process. That would seem to call for specialization but specialists often don't see the ball even coming. You need a broader view. So for an education - are you going to a school that helps you to develop serendipitous opportunities for your lifetime?"
 BEST WAY TO SOLVE ALL OF OUR ECONOMIC PROBLEMS Matt Yglesias explains how eliminating paper money could end recessions: "Now we come to the miracle of the cashless society. Stop for a moment and ask yourself why the interest rate can't be reduced much below 1 percent. The trouble is cash. At any given time, relatively little paper currency circulates in the United States. Instead, most of the American money supply consists of bank accounts and other electronic stores of value. People prefer to keep money in bank accounts because it's convenient and because you get interest on it. If the rates were driven below zero - in effect a tax on holding cash in the bank - people would just withdraw money and store it in shoe boxes instead. But what if you couldn't withdraw cash? What if all transactions were electronic, so the only way to avoid keeping money in a negative-rate account was to go out and buy something with the money? Well, then, we would have solved our depression problem. Too much unemployment? Lower interest rates below zero, Americans will start spending and investing again, the economy will grow, and unemployment will go back down to its 'natural rate.'"
Have a great holiday and see you in January!
 Gene Marks owns the Marks Group , a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter. 

        
This Week in Small Business: Meet Your Start-Up Mate
        
This Week in Small Business: Another Jobs Bill!
        
This Week in Small Business: Free iPads
        
This Week in Small Business: Cliffhanger!
        
This Week in Small Business: Happy Holidays?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); ACCOUNTING (68%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%) economy; Small Business; Cringely, Bob; Mankiw, N Gregory; Thiel, Peter A; Entrepreneurship; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: PAYPAL INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (54%)

PERSON: Cringely, Bob; Mankiw, N Gregory; Thiel, Peter A

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012



1110 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: How Politics Came to Dominate Payroll Tax Debate

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: Lower payroll taxes were originally a Republican idea, and just why they turned against it is something of a mystery, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Virtually all of the coverage of the debate over extending the temporary cut in the payroll tax has centered on the politics. Almost none has examined the economics of the issue. Indeed, it is nearly impossible to tell exactly why Republicans were so adamantly opposed to extending the tax cut. I'm still not sure.
The first thing to know is that the payroll tax cut was not originally part of the $787 billion stimulus bill enacted in February 2009. Another tax cut, the Making Work Pay credit, was the principal tax cut in the legislation. It provided a $400 to $800 tax cut for every person or family with a positive tax liability and an income below $75,000 for individuals and $150,000 for couples.
The stimulus legislation also contained a number of other tax cuts for individuals and families that consumed 30 percent of the budgetary cost of the legislation. All tax provisions taken together, including those for businesses, added up to $326 billion - more than 40 percent of the total cost of the stimulus package, according to the Joint Committee on Taxation.
At the end of 2010, all of the tax cuts enacted during the George W. Bush administration were scheduled to expire, as well as the Making Work Pay credit. Although President Obama wanted the tax cuts for the rich to expire on schedule, Republicans insisted on an all-or-nothing strategy. Republicans also asked that the Making Work Pay credit be replaced by a temporary two-percentage-point cut in the employees' share of the payroll tax.
Cutting the payroll tax fit better with Republican economic theory, because the rate of taxation would be reduced. Tax credits, by contrast, which are subtracted directly from one's tax liability, generally don't affect economic decisions at the margin because tax rates are unchanged.

(Of course, the phasing in and phasing out of tax credits such as the earned income tax credit can have marginal rate effects. But Republican economic policy tends to ignore such effects and focuses almost exclusively on statutory tax rates.)
Since the beginning of the economic crisis, many Republican economists had insisted that a temporary payroll tax cut was the best possible stimulus, including the former chairmen of the Council of Economic Advisers, Michael J. Boskin and N. Gregory Mankiw, and the former director of the National Economic Council, Lawrence B. Lindsey.
Economists at Morgan Stanley predicted that the payroll tax cut would help power the economy to 4 percent growth in 2011. (Real gross domestic product growth has actually been less than half that rate.)
The following distribution table from the Tax Policy Center, on Dec. 14, 2010, shows more clearly why Republicans favored the payroll tax cut over the Making Work Pay credit - the benefits are much more skewed toward those with upper incomes.
It also shows why the Obama administration went along - the average tax saving was almost doubled, thus increasing the aggregate fiscal stimulus. The administration also thought the payroll tax cut would be more apparent to workers than the largely invisible Making Work Pay credit.
When the legislation was debated in the House of Representatives on Dec. 16, 2010, the House majority leader, Eric Cantor, pointed to the abolition of the Making Work Pay credit as a key reason why Republicans should support it.
In short, the payroll tax cut was a Republican initiative. So why did they turn against it? The answer is unclear.
To be sure, some Republicans were unenthusiastic about the payroll tax cut in the first place, as were some Democrats who feared damage to the Social Security trust fund. (The Treasury has reimbursed the trust fund for the lost payroll tax revenue.)
As early as last summer, Republican leaders began trashing the payroll tax holiday. House Speaker John Boehner called it a short-term gimmick and Paul D. Ryan, chairman of the House Budget Committee, branded it "sugar-high economics."
In August, The Wall Street Journal editorial page came out against extending the payroll tax cut. A Heritage Foundation study in September argued that it was ineffective because it was oriented toward average workers rather than wealthy job creators.
Yet, there is precious little evidence that the payroll tax holiday did much, if anything, to stimulate growth or job creation. The Congressional Budget Office rated it as among the least stimulative fiscal policies. Some economists have argued that the Making Work Pay credit provided more bang for the buck.
In the end, economic arguments had little to do with how the payroll tax cut extension played out.
Republicans were in a weak position arguing against it because, historically, they have never opposed any tax cut, no matter how ill-designed or costly. And it was too easy for Democrats to press their political advantage, even though many had doubts about the efficacy of the payroll tax cut.
Sadly, we will probably go through the same exercise this time next year.

        
Raising Taxes on the Rich: Not Whether, but How
        
Are the Bush Tax Cuts the Root of Our Fiscal Problem?
        
Who Counts as 'Rich'? Continued
        
The Republican Idea of Tax Reform
        
Misrepresentations, Regulations and Jobs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX REFORM (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); FAMILY (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (74%); INCOME TAX (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%) Bruce Bartlett; Bush tax cuts; Daily Economist; Payroll Tax; politics; stimulus; Tax Credits; tax cuts; Boehner, John A; United States Economy; Tax Policy Center; Today's Economist

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Tax Policy Center

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (64%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Boehner, John A

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2011



1111 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: America Is not Exceptional

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: When it comes to interest rates. 

 BODY:
Uh-oh -- Mitt Romney is going to go after me. Maybe I'd better get out of the country and start an apology tour ...
Anyway, I was referring to interest rates. Ezra Klein points out, correctly, that the big economic story of 2011 was that the conventional wisdom of Washington about the urgency of deficit reduction was totally contradicted by the bond market. But Ezra makes at least a slight nod in the direction of a new conventional wisdom, which says that it's about the unique safe haven status of the United States:
This is not, to be fair, a bet on America's economic strength. It's a judgment about the rest of the world's economic weakness. U.S. Treasuries are what savvy investors buy when they're in a canned-goods-and-ammunition sort of mood and they think gold is overvalued. But though that makes the demand we're seeing more depressing, it doesn't make it any less real.
What such stories miss is the fact that interest rates have dropped sharply for every country that borrows in its own currency. Here are 10-year bond rates for a sample:
Note to British readers: every time Cameron takes credit for low British rates, he's hoping you don't know that the same thing has been happening in every non-euro advanced country.
What we're looking at is a world of depressed demand, where government securities look like a good buy everywhere except in countries that either don't have their own currency or have large debts in foreign currency, making them vulnerable to self-fulfilling panic. It's a world in which deficit obsession is mad, bad, and dangerous.
PS: Someone is going to notice that the scale for Japan is different; that's because I just cut and pasted from Bloomberg. And there's a very good reason why Japanese rates haven't fallen as much as the others -- the zero lower bound.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EURO (77%); BONDS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); BOND MARKETS (71%); CURRENCIES (66%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2011



1112 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: In New Hampshire, Romney Saves His Attacks for Obama

BYLINE: JESS BIDGOOD


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney campaigns in New Hampshire, before heading off to Iowa. 

 BODY:
LONDONDERRY, N.H. -- As attention turns to Iowa's caucuses, Mitt Romney scheduled two stops in New Hampshire on Tuesday morning, reaching out to voters in a state where he is considered the front-runner before heading off to Iowa later in the day.
After an introduction by Senator Kelly Ayotte, Republican of New Hampshire, Mr. Romney enthusiastically greeted the packed crowd here at the Coach Stop restaurant. "I'd tell you to sit down, but there are no chairs," he joked. ("Who says he's not funny?" whispered one voter in the crowd.)
Mr. Romney made little direct mention of his rivals for the Republican presidential nomination, and chose instead to criticize President Obama.
"I happen to believe today that we're at a kind of crossroads here -- we have a president with a very different view of what America should be than the view of the patriot dream," said Mr. Romney, lambasting Mr. Obama's health care plan, fiscal policy and regulatory reform efforts.
"What the president is doing is trying to turn us into an entitlement nation," said Mr. Romney. "I don't want America to become another nation of Europe." 
When an audience member asked about Newt Gingrich's immigration policy, Mr. Romney defended his own, saying businesses who hire undocumented workers should be sanctioned.
Later, when an audience member asked how he would address "extreme" judicial rulings, Mr. Romney said he would appoint Supreme Court justices who would overturn them. He said he would not want to see Congress subpoena justices, a proposal that Mr. Gingrich has advocated.
Later, he briefly elaborated on his plan to cut $500 billion from the federal budget by reducing entitlements, sending federal Medicaid dollars back to states, cutting subsidies for Amtrak -- which is often used in the Northeast -- and reducing government employment through attrition.
Mr. Romney did not take formal questions from the audience during a quick stop at Geno's Chowder & Sandwich Shop in the Democratic stronghold of Portsmouth, where a crowd of few hundred -- including a number of curious Democrats -- heard a similar speech to the one given at the Coach Stop.
John Dickinson, a Portsmouth resident, looked on as Mr. Romney shook hands, posed for pictures and occasionally hugged audience members, but he wasn't convinced. "He's still trying to find a way to connect with voters," said Mr. Dickinson.
Mr. Dickinson's wife, Joanie, added, "But he's gotten a lot better."
Mr. Dickinson said he would probably end up voting for Mr. Romney in the state's primary. "Can't be Cain, it's not going to be Gingrich," Mr. Dickinson said. "He's got too much baggage."
Nancy Novelline Clayburgh, a city councilwoman in Portsmouth, said she was leaning toward a vote for Mr. Romney, in part because of the former Massachusetts' governor's health care reform law in that state, which more conservative rivals have consistently attacked. "I think it works for Massachusetts, and I think he could create a plan that works for the U.S.A," Ms. Clayburgh said.
Nearby, Harold Whitehouse, a retired naval shipyard worker, echoed the sentiment. "It's not perfect," he said of Massachusetts' near-universal health care system, "but I like it."
Wes Krupp, a 19-year-old college student from Londonderry, also said he was voting for Mr. Romney. "I agree with everything he said, and I really just like how passionate he is about just being an American," Mr. Krupp said.
But Bob Sarsfield, another Londonderry resident, who works on sales, said he was undecided, because he was not sure Mr. Romney is serious enough about immigration. "When someone brings up immigration, it's still an important issue," he said. "It gets glossed over. In typical fashion, he didn't answer the question."
Mr. Sarsfield said he was trying to accept the fact that his perfect candidate simply wasn't in the race. "I'm looking for a Reagan Republican again and it ain't gonna happen," he said.

        
False Foreclosure? Occupy the Bank, Romney Says
        
A Voter's Advice to Romney: Changing Your Mind Is a Good Trait
        
Gingrich Says He's Ready to Take the Heat
        
Gingrich Holds Strong Lead in South Carolina Poll
        
Romney Tries to Show His Strength in New Hampshire

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MEDICAID (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); BUDGETS (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); FOREIGN LABOR (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); IMMIGRATION (65%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (64%); SUBPOENAS (64%) amtrak; campaign; mitt romney; New Hampshire; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Iowa; Elections

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (53%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (53%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); NEWT GINGRICH (76%); KELLY AYOTTE (58%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (97%); IOWA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%) Iowa; New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2011



1113 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Nebraska Senator Won't Run Again

BYLINE: CARL HULSE


HIGHLIGHT: Senator Ben Nelson, a two-term Democratic centrist from Nebraska who faced a tough fight to hold his seat, announced Tuesday that he will not seek re-election. 

 BODY:
3:44 p.m. | Updated Senator Ben Nelson, a two-term Democratic centrist from Nebraska who faced a tough fight to hold his seat, announced Tuesday that he will not seek re-election.
"It's time for me to step away from elective office, spend more time with my family and look for new ways to serve our state and nation," Mr. Nelson said in a video statement.
"Simply put, it's time to move on," he added.
Mr. Nelson, a former governor, had been assessing his plans for months even as he raised money and was the beneficiary of party advertising. But even if Mr. Nelson were to run, Republicans saw Nebraska as one of their best opportunities to take over a Senate seat.
Mr. Nelson came under withering criticism at home for backing President Obama's health care overhaul and also got caught up in a controversy over his demands for backing the economic stimulus legislation at the start of the Obama administration. 
The announcement makes Mr. Nelson the seventh member of the Democratic caucus to decide to retire from the Senate after the current term. Several of them, including Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, Herb Kohl of Wisconsin and Jim Webb of Virginia are in swing states where they were likely to have encountered strong challenges.
The decision makes it more difficult for Democrats to hold on to the Senate but it is not a complete game-changer, since many analysts already considered it a strong possibility that the seat could flip. Mr. Nelson was an experienced campaigner well-known through Nebraska and still popular with many voters, giving him a chance to win even in a difficult environment. His decision makes it much more likely Republicans will pick up the seat. Attention will now focus on whether Gov. Dave Heineman will run. His entry could shake up what is expected to be a messy Republican primary for the Senate nomination now that Mr. Nelson has bowed out.
In a statement calling Mr. Nelson "a loyal public servant," Senator Patty Murray of Washington, the head of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, said she was optimistic about the Nebraska race and chamber as a whole.
"Republicans will continue to have their hands full with a very divisive primary in the state, which will provide an opportunity for Democrats to remain competitive," she said. "We remain confident that we will hold the majority next year because incumbents have built strong campaign organizations in their states and we've recruited great candidates who are generating enthusiasm around the country."
A spokesman with the National Republican Senatorial Committee took a different view.
"This retirement deals a real blow to the Democrats' hopes of holding the majority and it's an even deeper blow to their hopes of holding the Nebraska Senate seat," said Brian Walsh, the communications director, in a statement.

        
Waiting for a Decision in Nebraska
        
Lieberman Gets a Democratic Challenger
        
Senator Ben Nelson Defends Health Care Vote in New TV Ad
        
Republican Unity Cracks as Election Nears
        
A Fierce Battle Ahead for the House

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (68%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (68%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (53%) 2012; ben nelson; Democrat; Elections; Nebraska; retire; Senate; Congress

PERSON: BEN NELSON (94%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); KENT CONRAD (58%); DAVE HEINEMAN (58%); JIM WEBB (58%); PATTY MURRAY (58%); HERB KOHL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA, USA (97%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2011



1114 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Santorum Takes Aim at Paul in Iowa

BYLINE: JEFF ZELENY


HIGHLIGHT: Seeking to persuade undecided voters across Iowa to join his candidacy, Rick Santorum argued that Ron Paul would be a dangerous presidential candidate for the Republican Party and the country. 

 BODY:
MASON CITY, Iowa - Rick Santorum urged voters in Iowa on Tuesday to think for themselves and not jump on the Republican bandwagon that suggests only a certain few of the party's presidential candidates could defeat President Obama.
"Trust your own judgment," Mr. Santorum said. "Don't defer to people who don't know the candidates as well as you do."
A week before the Iowa caucuses kick off the Republican nominating contest, Mr. Santorum is seeking to persuade undecided voters across the state to join his candidacy. In his closing argument to voters in Mason City, he bluntly argued that Representative Ron Paul of Texas would be a dangerous presidential candidate for the Republican Party and the country.
"The things that most Iowans like about Ron Paul - his economic ideas - are the things he's least likely to be able to accomplish," Mr. Santorum said. "The things that most Iowans are worried about are the very things he will accomplish." 
Mr. Santorum said that Mr. Paul would be unable to realize his goal of controlling spending and downsizing government in Washington, given the makeup of Congress and the unwillingness of Republicans to go along with his agenda by deeply cutting military programs.
"What evidence has Ron Paul ever shown that he can pass anything?" Mr. Santorum said. "He's never passed a bill. He's been in Congress for 20 years and hasn't passed a bill."
But he said that there would be no check-and-balance on Mr. Paul's role as commander in chief. He raised his voice and urged Republicans to carefully study Mr. Paul's isolationist foreign policy views.
"One thing he can do as commander in chief is he can pull all our troops home," Mr. Santorum said. "He can do that on the first day he's in office. He can shut down our bases in Germany. He can shut down the bases in Japan. He can pull our fleets back. You think the rest of the world is going to say oh, that's great? We'll just leave things the way they are?"
He added, "Think about having a guy running for president who is going to be on the left of Barack Obama on national security."
The fact that Mr. Santorum was focusing the brunt of his criticism on Mr. Paul underscores how the race could be changing in Iowa. More than 120 people gathered at the Historic Park Inn in downtown Mason City, with the crowd steadily growing as he spoke at lunchtime.
Not long ago, as Mr. Santorum spoke to only a handful of people as he traveled across Iowa, he was taking aim at Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota, who was seen as a leading rival for evangelical voters. His tone on Tuesday highlighted his effort to try and erode support from Mr. Paul and broaden his pitch beyond his social conservative message.
Mr. Santorum also made a passing reference to Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, saying that he is a prime example of how running for president is harder than it looks. He said that he believes his own candidacy is rising at the right time.
"I feel blessed, in many respects, that the media has ignored me for a while," Mr. Santorum said. "I've had the chance to hone my craft."

        
A Little Soul-Searching in Iowa
        
Santorum Hunts for Birds and an Endorsement, but Leaves Disappointed
        
Gingrich Unlikely to Get on Virginia Ballot
        
Caucus Video: On the Road in Iowa
        
What Year Is It? Biden and Santorum Head to Iowa

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (63%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%); RELIGION (50%); HISTORIC SITES (50%) Iowa; Iowa caucuses; rick santorum; ron paul; Paul, Ron; Santorum, Rick; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; In Iowa

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: RON PAUL (94%); RICK SANTORUM (94%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Paul, Ron; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2011



1115 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Gingrich Strikes Economic Themes in Hitting Romney

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL


HIGHLIGHT: Newt Gingrich takes on Mitt Romney on economics, Mr. Romney's central theme. 

 BODY:
DYERSVILLE, Iowa -- Newt Gingrich introduced a new theme to his sharpening contrast to Mitt Romney: that he was a founder of supply-side economics that brought the country prosperity under Ronald Reagan and can do so again -- but not if Mr. Romney is the nominee. 
Dropping the term "supply-side" repeatedly into remarks on Tuesday, Mr. Gingrich said he was present at the creation of the defining conservative movement, whereas Mr. Romney was no more than a "Massachusetts moderate.''
Mr. Gingrich invoked the names of the economists Jude Wanniski and Arthur Laffer, calling them the intellectual leaders of supply-side. "Jack Kemp was our political leader,'' he said. "And I was one of the early activists. In 1980, we convinced the former governor of California to make it a centerpiece of his campaign.''
He pointed to the policies of the Reagan presidency and his own years as House speaker as twin eras of prosperity, thanks to tax cuts that lead to increased growth -- a linkage as contentious and debated today as it was decades ago. 
Mr. Gingrich said his proposals for cutting corporate taxes and capital gains were more aggressive than Mr. Romney's. In an interview on CNN, he issued a face-to-the-camera challenge to Mr. Romney to debate him one-on-one. "I'm willing to fight for real job creation with a real Reagan-Kemp style job creation program,'' he said. "You are a moderate Massachusetts Republican who in fact is very timid about job creation. Let's get it on together, and let's compare our two plans.''
In fact, there are not huge differences between the candidates' plans for tax cuts. Mr. Gingrich favors reducing the corporate tax rate to 12.5 percent from 35 percent, Mr. Romney to 25 percent. Both men would eliminate inheritance taxes. Mr. Gingrich would end capital gains taxes for all, Mr. Romney only for taxpayers with adjusted gross income under $200,000. Mr. Gingrich would also offer an optional 15 percent flat income tax for individuals. 
A nonpartisan group, the Tax Policy Center, analyzed Mr. Gingrich's proposals and concluded they would lower revenues to the government in 2015 by roughly 35 percent, or $1.28 trillion, which was described as "mind-boggling" by a senior fellow of the center, which projected bigger deficits. Mr. Gingrich counters that the analysis doesn't take into account an economic expansion the plan is designed to spur.
Challenged by reporters that the country under President George W. Bush had experienced an eight-year experiment in supply-side economics that lead to larger deficits, Mr. Gingrich rejected that analysis.
"I don't think that's accurate at all," he said. 
An earlier version of this post misstated the name of Jude Wanniski, one of the economists whose names Newt Gingrich invoked.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (87%); CORPORATE TAX (87%); INCOME TAX (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (86%); JOB CREATION (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); ELECTIONS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TAX REFORM (73%); ESTATE TAX (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); GOVERNORS (71%) Gingrich, Newt; Kemp, Jack F; Reagan, Ronald Wilson; Romney, Mitt; Capital Gains Tax; Corporate Taxes; Economics (Theory and Philosophy); Income Tax; Presidential Election of 2012; CNN; Tax Policy Center; Massachusetts; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: CNN; Tax Policy Center

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (94%); RONALD REAGAN (94%); MITT ROMNEY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%) Gingrich, Newt; Kemp, Jack F; Reagan, Ronald Wilson; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2011



1116 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Getting It Right

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: One good idea each from the seven Republican presidential candidates. 

 BODY:
Dissatisfaction and disappointment have pervaded the Republican presidential campaign. Pundits pining for a game-changing candidate have been repeatedly let down, and voters have pinballed from one unsatisfactory option to another, with infatuation giving way to disillusionment every time.
But at this point, enough has been written about the weakness of the Republican field. Before the winnowing begins in earnest, it's worth taking a moment to praise each remaining contender for something - big, small, or somewhere in between - that they got right during the campaign and that deserves to find its way into the eventual nominee's agenda.
We'll start with Rick Santorum, who's distinguished himself by talking about issues that most Republicans don't want to touch - the problem of middle-class wage stagnation and the declining social mobility of the poor. Santorum has also framed these issues, correctly, in the context of the crisis in family life that social conservatives have been worrying about for years, making the essential point that absent fathers and broken homes play a greater role in middle America's struggles than the supposed perfidies of the richest 1 percent. Somewhat disappointingly, Santorum's specific proposals have focused on reviving manufacturing (and with it, in theory, the solid blue-collar paycheck) rather than targeting family policy directly. But one can doubt his cure and still appreciate his diagnosis.
Rick Perry has some very bad ideas about how to reform Washington (making Congress a part-time affair, for instance, which would probably only increase the influence of lobbyists) and one very good one: Ending life tenure for federal judges. For Supreme Court justices, especially, the combination of rising life expectancy and an increasingly powerful judicial branch has turned the nominating process into a macabre and un-republican spectacle. Presidents strive to find the youngest possible nominee who suits their ideological predilections, and the fate of constitutional law can turn on an aging justice's ability to hang on till the White House changes hands. Both the court and the country would be better served by long but limited appointments, staggered to guarantee at least one appointment in every presidential term.
Newt Gingrich has taken a lot of heat from his rivals for his various forays into techno-utopianism. But Gingrich's current scientific obsession, brain research, is more practical than fantastic. Federal support for basic scientific research tends to generate a higher return on investment than Solyndra-style attempts at playing venture capitalist, and in an era of skyrocketing old-age health care costs, brain science is a particularly reasonable place to commit public funds. As National Review's Reihan Salam points out, modestly postponing the onset of diseases like Alzheimer's could save taxpayers a fortune in Medicare spending over the next few decades.
On an issue that scrambles ideological categories, Jon Huntsman's financial reform proposal - which would impose a fee on banks whose size exceeds a certain percentage of G.D.P. - has earned deserved praise from right and left alike. All of the Republican candidates are notionally committed to preventing future TARP-style bailouts. Only Huntsman has put a plan on paper that actually addresses the problem of too-big-to-fail institutions. The devil is in the details, of course, but the former Utah governor is starting from the right premise. Curbing the power of the financial sector isn't a blow against free markets; it's a prerequisite for a healthier capitalism.
Michele Bachmann took some ribbing for her comment, during a Republican debate in October, that President Obama first "put us in Libya" and "he is now putting us in Africa." Yes, Libya is in Africa, but the Minnesota congresswoman's criticism of the White House was timely and important. Even as the president has been unwinding America's big overseas commitments, he's been multiplying our smaller ones, and the White House's decision to dispatch 100 American troops to Uganda to help fight the Lord's Resistance Army, like the decision to intervene in Libya's civil war, reflects a dangerously expansive definition of the national interest.
Even Ron Paul's best ideas tend to be take a real insight several steps too far, and his views on drug policy are no exception. One need not share his enthusiasm for legalizing heroin to agree with the Texas congressman that the way our war on drugs is prosecuted wastes money, manpower and lives. Paul's call to end the drug war hasn't attracted as much attention as his views on foreign affairs and monetary policy, but he deserves credit for highlighting an area of public policy - drug laws specifically and criminal justice generally - that's ripe for reassessment.
Finally, while Mitt Romney has a well-earned reputation for policy slipperiness, he actually has the best Medicare reform plan of any Republican candidate for president. The Romney plan follows the same basic blueprint as Paul Ryan's controversial House budget, replacing Medicare's open-ended spending commitment with a "premium support" plan that lets private insurers compete to cover seniors. Romney's plan, though, looks more like the bipartisan version of premium support that Ryan and Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, recently co-sponsored, which retains a public program as an option for seniors and doesn't try to cut spending quite as steeply as the House budget did. Yuval Levin, writing in the Weekly Standard, has called this approach the "confident market solution": It relies on the power of competition to hold down costs, but it asks the government (rather than seniors themselves) to cover any shortfalls that result.
It's a plan that might actually pass, in other words, and might actually survive as law as well. This won't prevent the White House from relentlessly attacking it should Romney be the nominee. But judged strictly as policy, it's the best advertisement for Republican governance that this primary season has produced.

        
The Romance of Iowa
        
Granny Loves Gingrich
        
The Second Coming of Gingrich

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FAMILY (88%); NEUROSCIENCE (84%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (69%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); MEDICARE (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (65%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (64%); SCIENCE FUNDING (64%); BRAIN (64%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (63%); JUDGES (63%); VENTURE CAPITAL (60%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (60%) Republican party platform; Republican presidential campaign; Bachmann, Michele M; Gingrich, Newt; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Obama, Barack; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Ryan, Paul D Jr; Santorum, Rick

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (91%); RICK PERRY (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (89%); RICK SANTORUM (79%); MICHELE BACHMANN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (73%) Bachmann, Michele M; Gingrich, Newt; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Obama, Barack; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Ryan, Paul D Jr; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1117 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: With Gas Drilling Next Door, County In New York Gets An Economic Lift

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
HORSEHEADS, N.Y. -- At the Glamour and Glow boutique in the local mall here, crystal necklaces and fake fur vests have been hot-ticket items the last year.
When the drilling workers head home between long stretches of work in this gas-rich region, explained Christy Spreng, the shop's owner, they need gifts for their wives and girlfriends. ''They know what they want,'' she said. ''They'll say: 'Looks good. Wrap it up.' ''
Sales are up 60 percent at the boutique this year. At the two Holiday Inns here in Chemung County, occupancy has been at or near capacity for months at a time. And in the nearby town of Big Flats, the regional airport has added flights, parking spaces and restrooms, and is extending a runway to accommodate larger jets.
This new base of customers -- workers from Oklahoma, Texas and other parts of the country with long experience in drilling natural gas wells -- are drawn to the region by jobs just across the state border in rural Pennsylvania, where a kind of drilling known as horizontal hydraulic fracturing, or hydrofracking, has vastly expanded over the last two years. 
In the same period, New York State environmental officials have been weighing whether such drilling should be allowed here. Until it does, Chemung County is savoring a hydrofracking boom without the hydrofracking.
The workers stream across the Pennsylvania border in search of amenities that are relatively scarce at the rural drilling sites. ''Places are jammed,'' said Thomas J. Santulli, the Chemung County executive.
The county's hospitality, while hardly uniform, as opponents of fracking have made themselves heard, contrasts with the natural gas industry's reception in some other corners of New York State. A few municipalities have moved pre-emptively to ban hydrofracking, citing the potential for heavy truck traffic, noise and, above all, the risk of contamination of groundwater supplies.
Horizontal hydraulic fracturing involves injecting water and chemicals into underground shale formations at enormous pressure to extract natural gas.
One reason that many in Chemung take the proposed drilling in stride is that gas exploration is nothing new here: dozens of conventionally drilled wells are active in the Trenton-Black River formation. All told, the county already has 3,400 acres of its own land under lease for gas exploration.
Still, the spillover from Pennsylvania is giving the county's 88,000 residents a taste of how life might change, for better and worse, if the state gives a green light to the far more powerful method of extraction. County workers are busy surveying roads, training law enforcement personnel and visiting drilling centers in northeastern Pennsylvania to learn how their neighbors have dealt with traffic and an influx of thousands of workers.
Some downsides are anticipated in New York State.
A report commissioned this year by the State Department of Environmental Conservation, for example, predicts local housing shortages and a rise in rents as workers migrate to New York to take jobs in well construction and production that cannot initially be filled with local labor.
Some residents are already feeling pinched. ''I was looking to spend $600 to $800, and it's hard to find a decent place for that,'' said Mark Stedge, 53, a resident who said he found most rents were more than double what he could pay. ''The drillers are willing to pay anything because they need a place to stay.''
Nonetheless, the report said that Chemung and other counties in the state's Southern Tier where shale gas is assumed to be plentiful can expect a surge in retail sales and tax revenue from those workers once drilling begins.
''These communities have the infrastructure,'' said Kent Gardner, president and chief economist of the Center for Governmental Research in Rochester. ''They have the commercial buildings, the lodging facilities and access to Interstate 86.''
Such amenities drew Sam Cullen, 33, a drill pipe worker from Harrison, Ark., who works about 35 minutes away in Bradford County, Pa., to the Texas Roadhouse restaurant here one recent evening. ''There is nothing there -- there's no entertainment, there's nothing to do,'' he said of that Pennsylvania locale as he sipped a margarita.
Chemung County, Mr. Cullen added, ''is where we spend our money.''
Last year, Chemung led all New York counties in the growth of sales tax and hotel tax revenue, as well as in the expansion of its tax base, avoiding the property tax increases and economic doldrums faced by local governments elsewhere in the state. To a lesser degree, Broome County, also right above the hydrofracking hot spots of Bradford and Susquehanna Counties, is also enjoying brisk business.
Mr. Santulli, the Chemung County executive, attributes at least half of its tax revenue growth to the increased activity of the extracting industry on both sides of the border.
He said 28 gas-related companies employing more than 1,000 had leased or bought more than one million square feet of commercial space in the county as a staging area for current and future drilling operations in the region.
Many businesses provide support and technological services for gas fields. One of the biggest, Schlumberger Technologies, is completing a 400,000-square-foot plant in Horseheads that will employ 400 people by next year.
Ann Crook, the manager of Elmira Corning Regional Airport in Big Flats, estimates one of five passengers flying in or out has some tie to the gas industry. Some are workers who head straight to the airport after working their final shift, which has prompted her to invest in some degreasing soap for the restrooms. ''They do some serious cleanup here,'' Ms. Crook said.
Local critics of the county's boom are not hard to find. Some local antifracking groups complain that county officials rolled out the carpet for new businesses without requiring detailed environmental impact statements or considering the long-term consequences.
''The revenue is significant,'' said Susan Multer, who lives in Horseheads and is a board member for a group called People for a Healthy Environment. ''But we believe that the boom will turn into a bust later. The economic benefits will die, and we will be left with the health effects of the industrialization of what's now our rural, quiet community.''
Some residents argue that the county is already contending with pollution problems that will only get worse if New York State starts issuing permits for the controversial fracking process. A group in Horseheads has sued Anschutz Exploration, a gas drilling company based in Denver, over two conventionally bored wells that the group says contaminated the drinking water.
In another neighborhood, residents are up in arms over a municipal landfill that began accepting drill cuttings from hydrofracking in Pennsylvania last year.
''What would happen if this gets in the water supply?'' said Dr. Earl Robinson, a pulmonologist and critical care doctor who can see the landfill from his historic house in the Lowman neighborhood.
Officials with the Department of Environmental Conservation have judged the disposal of the shale waste in municipal landfills to be safe. The department has nonetheless been monitoring the site, and county officials have installed radiation detectors to monitor the cuttings, which they say make up 30 percent of the landfill's capacity.
The rumbles of dissent are not lost on the drilling workers, whose cowboy hats and encrusted boots make them easy to spot when they drive into Horseheads for a meal or entertainment.
''People look at us like we're idiots here,'' said Jeff Lambert, 27, a drill pipe worker from Oklahoma who has worked in Pennsylvania since August.
''They want to know why we're up here drilling,'' he said. ''I say, because you like to heat your home. You can't get natural gas if you don't drill.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Drilling workers at a Texas Roadhouse restaurant in Chemung County, N.Y. Workers are drawn to the area by jobs in Pennsylvania, where horizontal hydraulic fracturing has vastly expanded.
Dr. Earl Robinson lives near a landfill in Chemung County where drill cuttings from hydrofracking in Pennsylvania are being dumped. ''What would happen if this gets in the water supply?'' Dr. Robinson said. (A18)
 Nathan Wells, a trucker for a drilling company in Pennsylvania, at a mall in Elmira, N.Y. Drilling workers cross into New York State for amenities. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HEATHER AINSWORTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) MAP (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (91%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); RETAILERS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); COUNTIES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); AIRPORTS (74%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (74%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); WATER POLLUTION (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

COMPANY: UNIFORM AS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1118 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: Confidence Rises Sharply, but Home Prices Fall

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
A monthly survey released Tuesday shows consumers' confidence in the economy in December surged to the highest level since April and was near a post-recession peak.
But a separate private report said home prices in most major cities in the United States fell for the second straight month in October. 
The New York-based Conference Board said that its Consumer Confidence Index rose almost 10 points to 64.5, up from a revised 55.2 in November. Analysts had expected 59.
The surge builds on another big increase in November, when the index rose almost 15 points from the month before.
Improving confidence is in line with retail reports of a decent holiday shopping season. Still, the December confidence reading is below the 90 level that indicates an economy on solid footing.
Economists watch the confidence numbers closely because consumer spending -- including items like health care -- accounts for about 70 percent of economic activity in the United States.
Still, the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller index showed prices dropped in October from September in 19 of the 20 cities tracked, reflecting the typical autumn slowdown after the peak buying season.
Prices in a majority of cities declined for the second straight month. Before that, they had risen for five consecutive months in at least half of the cities tracked.
Atlanta, Detroit and Minneapolis posted the biggest monthly declines. Prices in Atlanta and Las Vegas fell to their lowest points since the housing crisis began.
Prices rose in Phoenix after three straight monthly declines.
The Case-Shiller index covers cities that hold half of all homes. It measures prices compared with those in January 2000 and creates a three-month moving average. The monthly data are not seasonally adjusted.
David M. Blitzer, chairman of S.&P.'s index committee, said steep price drops in cities such as Atlanta, Chicago, Cleveland, Detroit and Minneapolis were particularly worrisome because their gains earlier this season were strong.
''Atlanta and the Midwest are regions that really stand out in terms of recent relative weakness,'' Mr. Blitzer said. ''These markets were some of the strongest during the spring/summer buying season.''
Americans are generally reluctant to purchase a home more than two years after the recession officially ended. High unemployment and weak job growth have deterred many would-be buyers. Even the lowest mortgage rates in history haven't been enough to lift sales.
Sales of previously occupied homes are barely ahead of 2008's dismal figures, which were the worst in 13 years. And sales of new homes this year will likely be the lowest since the government began keeping records a half century ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); HOME PRICES (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); RECESSION (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1119 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: Joining Trend, College Grows Beyond Name

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
After a century firmly anchored in Boston, Northeastern University is branching out -- becoming Southeastern, Northwestern and perhaps Western and Midwestern as well.
Northeastern, known for its co-op program in which undergraduates spend significant amounts of time in the workplace, opened its first satellite campus this fall in Charlotte, N.C., and is planning a second in Seattle next year; outposts in Austin, Tex., Minnesota and Silicon Valley are under discussion.
The goal is to offer master's degrees in industries like cybersecurity, health informatics and project management, matching programs with each city's industries and labor needs, through a mix of virtual learning and fly-ins from professors based in Boston (tuition will be the same as at the main campus).
While higher education has long been seen as a local enterprise, with universities deeply enmeshed in their communities, the explosion of online institutions, particularly for-profit career colleges like the University of Phoenix and the Education Management Corporation, has changed that dynamic. Northeastern, which is spending $60 million to support the expansion, is perhaps the most ambitious of a handful of brick-and-mortar institutions looking to broaden their footprint in new markets and with new methods of instruction. 
''This is a time of huge transition in an industry that hasn't changed much since the Middle Ages,'' said Charles P. Bird, a former vice president of Ohio University who helped develop the institution's online offerings and now works as a consultant. ''Higher education is going from traditional face-to-face delivery, and the unexamined assumption that that is good, to thinking about delivering a high-quality online experience, whether fully online or hybrid.''
Northeastern has hired 261 tenured and tenure-track professors in the last five years, about twice as many as in the previous five, and plans to add 200 more in the next three years -- all of whom will be based at the home campus in Boston.
''There's been a real knowledge explosion that has created new industries with new needs for expertise,'' said Joseph E. Aoun, the university's president. ''We don't want to make the mistake the railways did. They didn't think of themselves as being broadly in the transportation industry, so they missed the opportunity to build air travel. We're in the business of higher education, and where there's a new space, we want to step in.''
Until recently, most universities looking to expand have gone overseas, starting branches in regions where American-style higher education is a huge draw: first in Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, where oil revenues have paid for elaborate buildings and hefty bonuses for American faculty members, and more recently in China and Singapore.
But Cornell University just won an international competition to build a $2 billion graduate school of applied sciences on Roosevelt Island in partnership with Technion-Israel Institute of Technology. Last month, Emerson College in Boston announced plans for an academic center in Los Angeles. And the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania offers its weekend executive M.B.A. program in San Francisco as well as in Philadelphia.
Andrew Delbanco, a Columbia University professor who writes about higher education, said such expansions were ''symptomatic of the significant anxiety by institutions at all levels of higher education about their sustainability.''
Some experts are skeptical that an institution entering new territory can compete with the existing local colleges and universities.
''If I were looking to move into a new region,'' said Mark G. Yudof, president of the University of California, ''I would prefer to partner with someone who knows and understands that market and already has a name brand there.''
So far, Drexel University has come closest to Northeastern's approach -- and not without difficulties.
Drexel, a century-old research university of about 18,000 students in Philadelphia that also has an extensive co-op program, opened a graduate center in downtown Sacramento in 2009, offering degrees through the hybrid online and fly-in model. That juggling act turned out to be ''a lot harder than anyone thought it would be,'' said John A. Fry, who became Drexel's president last year and has since called off a plan to build a full undergraduate campus in California.
''I went out there my third week, and my conclusion was that the graduate center was struggling and needed a lot of attention,'' Mr. Fry said. ''We needed about 400 students to put ourselves in a break-even position, and we've had to fight hard to get to 300.''
Mr. Fry said that Drexel would not walk away from Sacramento, but that he expected more growth from the university's for-profit online subsidiary.
''When it comes down to expanding with the bricks or doing it with the clicks, I think we'll do it with the clicks,'' he said. ''To work your way into a new community, where you're not very well known, you've got to be there at least 10 years and build all those relationships.''
Northeastern is working on it, with its downtown Charlotte space playing host to a stream of receptions and meetings for civic and business leaders.
''Bill Gates says place is going to matter less and less for universities in the future, but I think that's wrong,'' said Mr. Aoun, Northeastern's president. ''I think a successful university has to be part of a community.''
Before choosing Charlotte, Northeastern did two years of analysis and research, learning that the city had a growing economy but a smaller share of people with graduate degrees than Boston or New York. It also found that most newcomers were from the Northeast, including enough alumni to give the Northeastern name some resonance. Northeastern officials made 30 trips to Charlotte to meet local leaders, and a Charlotte delegation, including several corporate executives, spent time on the Boston campus.
Northeastern, which has seen a surge in undergraduate applications in recent years, has North Carolina licensing for eight master's programs -- business administration, finance, taxation, project management, sports leadership, leadership, education and health informatics -- from among its 234 existing master's programs. An additional 14 applications for programs are pending.
Mr. Aoun said he expected new benefits from the Charlotte presence, including temporary jobs for Boston-based undergraduates and research opportunities for professors.
''We have already been approached about new opportunities, including a partnership with Duke Energy,'' Mr. Aoun said. ''We're trying to be the first university with a national network. Because of our co-op program, we already have 2,500 corporations and N.G.O.s that work with us,'' he added, referring to nongovernmental organizations.
Cheryl Richards, the regional dean in Charlotte, declined to say how many students had enrolled, calling it an ''irrelevant metric'' since Northeastern arrived so recently. The university hopes to have 175 students in Charlotte and 100 in Seattle in 2012, and 900 and 850, respectively, in 2014.
Michael Smith, president of Charlotte Center City Partners, said colleges in his city did not see Northeastern's expansion as a threat, perhaps because its programs are more expensive and aimed at different types of students than existing ones. ''They know who they are, and they've built some incredible best practices in the way they work with corporations,'' he said.
Across the country, Danny Westneat, who writes a twice weekly column for The Seattle Times, questioned why Northeastern seemed ready to do what local universities could not. ''I know, I should be thankful a midrank school from the East has the vision and gumption to expand higher ed for us,'' Mr. Westneat wrote recently. ''It's just that it exposes how we seem to be lacking these qualities right now ourselves.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: One of the classrooms at Northeastern University's new campus in Charlotte, N.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN ADKISSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (72%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (70%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (70%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (55%)

COMPANY: EDUCATION MANAGEMENT CORP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (94%); OHIO UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: EDMC (NASDAQ) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); SIC8221 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES, & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (72%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); CHINA (79%); QATAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1120 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Slicing Costs, and Still Serving

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
You see them all across the country, in shopping malls and street corners, suburban towns and city centers: zombie restaurants.
Many of the undead are part of familiar chains that filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection this year: Friendly's, Chevys, Sbarro, Perkins. The zombie restaurants, barely bringing in enough cash to cover basic expenses, always seem to be one sizzling fajita or glazed chicken skewer away from a merciful end, but somehow keep hanging on -- leaving too many restaurants chasing after scarce dining dollars.
''There's a lot of walking dead,'' said Bob Goldin, executive vice president for Technomic, a consulting firm that works with restaurant companies. ''A lot of chains, they hang in there and they're hard to kill off.''
Consumers, who have generally cut back on the number of meals out since the recession began, are benefiting from the proliferation of zombies. Healthy and failing restaurants alike have been forced to discount relentlessly to lure diners. But for the restaurants, particularly small independent operators, the competition from the undead is a nightmare that just won't end. 
The hard times for restaurants began in 2008, as the recession and staggering unemployment forced Americans to cut back on dining out. During the 12-month period ending in August, the average American ate or got takeout at restaurants 195 times, down from 208 times in 2008, according to Harry Balzer, the chief food industry analyst for the NPD Group.
The industry puffed up like a souffle in the boom years. Led by quickly expanding chains, the number of restaurants in the country grew by more than 100,000 from 1996 to 2008. By that year, there were 545,678 restaurants nationwide, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
When things turned bad, many analysts said the total number of restaurants needed to shrink by at least 20,000 to bring supply and demand back into balance.
Instead, the number of restaurants kept growing, albeit more slowly.
Sales have taken a beating along the way. For example, at Applebee's, one of the nation's largest midprice chains with more than 2,000 restaurants, sales at restaurants open at least 18 months slumped every quarter from mid-2008 through the middle of 2010. The chain's sales have grown modestly since then, compared with the low level of sales during the recession, but dipped again in the three months ending Sept. 30.
Analysts say the restaurant industry bears some similarities to the consumer electronics retail industry. Before 2009, there were far too many electronics stores. Then, Circuit City failed, closing 567 stores. The sudden shuttering was painful for the chain's 34,000 employees, but it meant greater market share for other retailers, like Best Buy, Walmart and Target.
''We need that Circuit City event,'' said Steve West, a restaurant industry analyst for ITG Investment Research.
That kind of reckoning has remained elusive, despite bankruptcy filings this year by several major chains.
When Friendly's Ice Cream, the chain based in Massachusetts, filed for bankruptcy protection in October, it said it would close 63 underperforming restaurants. But the company said it would continue to operate 420 stores, and a spokesman said it was making plans to expand again.
In California, Real Mex Restaurants, which owns several chains, including the midprice Chevys Fresh Mex, closed just 30 outlets after it filed for bankruptcy in October. It continues to operate 156 restaurants.
After Sbarro, the Italian fast-food chain, filed for bankruptcy in April, it closed 31 stores in the United States, but kept the doors open on 429.
Mr. West said that many chains and independent restaurants were able to survive the recession because their costs fell along with demand. Labor costs went down, as high unemployment led to lower worker turnover and gave restaurant owners greater ability to adjust worker schedules and hours.
Prices for food commodities also fell sharply. ''It saved all these companies that we thought were going bankrupt,'' Mr. West said.
The most crowded sector of the industry is midprice restaurants, which include chains like Applebee's and Chili's. Mr. West estimated that as many as 13,000 midprice restaurants would have to close to balance supply and demand and return the industry to prerecession levels of profitability.
The oversupply is partly a result of the economics of the restaurant chains, which often keep underperforming restaurants open as long as they are generating enough money to cover basic costs, said Mark F. Fallon, vice president for real estate for Jeffrey R. Anderson Real Estate, a Cincinnati company that develops shopping centers and operates 15 restaurants, including 12 Hooters franchises.
Mr. Fallon said that zombie operators cut costs to the bone to stay in business.
''It has nothing to do with the quality of the food or serving the customer,'' he said. ''It's just a financial play.'' He said his company operated differently and located new restaurants in areas with healthy demand.
But in the eyes of some competitors, Anderson Real Estate may be contributing to the oversupply problem. The company is in the process of completing a new development in downtown Cincinnati called the Banks, which will include 300 apartments and, by the end of next year, up to 10 new restaurants, with a total of about 3,000 seats. They include chains like Johnny Rockets and Toby Keith's I Love This Bar and Grill.
Harry E. Stephens, the co-owner of two Cincinnati restaurants, one a short drive from the new development, can hardly believe it. ''There are restaurants downtown that are struggling now and you add all those seats,'' he said. ''They're going to drain our market share for sure.''
While many restaurant chains have been able to scrape by through difficult economic times, independent restaurants like those run by Mr. Stephens have had a much harder time of it, with more of them closing than opening during the recession even as the number of chain restaurants has increased or held steady.
The imbalance does not seem likely to end soon. Indeed, one midprice chain that everyone thought was dead and buried -- Bennigan's -- is now coming back from the crypt.
Bennigan's declared bankruptcy in 2008 and abruptly shut down the approximately 240 restaurants operated by the company, though some franchise-run Bennigan's restaurants stayed in business.
Now, a group of investors has resurrected the franchising company and plans to open a small number of company-owned restaurants and dozens of new franchised outlets over the next five years. Paul M. Mangiamele, chief executive of Bennigan's Franchising, said he had come up with a new design for stores and a revamped menu that would inject new life into the brand.
He said he did not worry about overcrowding in the industry but acknowledged that it would be good if some ''old, tired restaurants'' -- a description he said once fit Bennigan's -- would get out of the way.
''I don't think we're overbuilt,'' he said of the industry. ''I think we're underdemolished.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Friendly's restaurant near Wilmington, Del., part of a chain that has been operating in bankruptcy since October. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM SHAFFER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 In Cincinnati, the Banks project will add to the restaurant competition near the ballpark. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM UHLMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (89%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (89%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); SUBURBS (78%); CITIES (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (76%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); DINING OUT TRENDS (70%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); STATISTICS (65%); MARKET SHARE (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (59%) DELAWARE, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1121 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Enticing Doctors to Endorse a Weight-Loss Program

BYLINE: By ANDREW ADAM NEWMAN

 BODY:
WHEN Medicare announced in November that it would begin paying for obese patients to undergo physician-supervised treatment for weight loss, it was welcome news to the Center for Medical Weight Loss, a company offering an obesity program adopted by doctors throughout the country.
Now the company is embarking on a two-tiered marketing campaign, one directed at recruiting doctors to incorporate the program into their practices, and another at consumers. 
''In medical school, I learned more about treating malaria than I learned about treating obesity,'' begins a print ad directed at physicians that quotes Dr. Michael Kaplan, the founder of the company. ''I have yet to see a patient with malaria.''
The ad will begin appearing in February in medical publications including the American Journal of Medicine. The campaign is by the Levinson Tractenberg Group, an independent agency in Manhattan.
''Jenny Craig didn't go to medical school,'' begins another ad, referring to the weight-loss brand that recently began going by ''Jenny.'' ''Learn how to easily integrate our nonsurgical, scientifically proven, evidence-based programs into your practice.''
An ad directed at consumers, meanwhile, features an illustration of an obese version of the Statue of Liberty, her torch replaced by an ice cream cone stacked with six scoops. ''The government has finally agreed to trim the fat,'' reads the headline.
Popular weight loss companies tend to hire celebrity endorsers, with Weight Watchers currently featuring Jennifer Hudson and Charles Barkley, Jenny featuring Mariah Carey, and Nutrisystem featuring Janet Jackson. But Joel Levinson, a partner in the Levinson Tractenberg Group, dismisses the approach.
''That's a me-too weight-loss product approach, and that's a killer for me,'' Mr. Levinson said of celebrity endorsements. The center's campaign stresses the ''unique selling point'' of the program being administered by physicians, he said.
''Weight loss with a degree of difference,'' begins another ad. ''A medical degree.'' While ''most of the other diet programs will say 'consult a physician,' '' said Mr. Levinson, ''here, we are the physicians.''
The American rate of obesity, defined as having a body mass index of 30 or greater (about 203 pounds for a 5-foot-9 adult), grew from 13.4 percent of the population in 1962 to 34.3 percent in 2008, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
In announcing that it would cover obesity treatment, Medicare cited not just public-health concerns but economic ones, since treating obesity may be cheaper than treating diseases for which the overweight are predisposed, including heart disease, stroke, diabetes and some cancers.
As an internist practicing on Long Island in 2002, Dr. Kaplan, the company founder, said he grew tired of ''handing out prescriptions all day for hypertension and other conditions that were related to obesity,'' and decided to open a practice specializing in weight loss.
He had grown to three Long Island offices in 2006 when he decided to market his approach, and now the company trains and licenses more than 450 physicians in 46 states, with such licenses representing anything from a subspecialty within a general practitioner's office to a full-fledged weight-loss center.
Patients begin with an initial consultation where factors including body mass and overall body fat are discussed, and where patients are presented with up to three diet options, with the quickest weight-loss approach requiring the most motivation and costing the most.
Like typical weight-loss programs, Dr. Kaplan recommends exercise regimens and supplies meal-replacement shakes, bars and vitamins. But physicians, unlike nonmedical weight-loss plans, may recommend diets as low as 800 calories a day, and prescribe appetite suppressants, which Dr. Kaplan said he did with as many as 20 percent of patients, often only in the first few weeks.
''I've been saying since Day 1 that obesity is a disease'' and best treated by doctors, said Dr. Kaplan, who predicted that most insurers would follow Medicare and cover obesity treatment within a year.
A survey by Mintel, the market research firm, indicated that among dieters, men are more likely than women to be dieting to address a health concern like high blood pressure (40 percent men, 33 percent women), diabetes (31 percent men, 24 percent women) and heart disease (29 percent men, 23 percent women).
While men make up about 10 percent of clients at Weight Watchers, they represent about one-third of patients for Dr. Kaplan's company.
''Men are less concerned that they're gaining weight until there are medical conditions presented to them by a physician,'' said Kevin Eberly, chief executive of the Center for Medical Weight Loss.
Special K, the cereal from Kellogg, directs its advertising and marketing squarely at women, whom it encourages to take the Special K Challenge, a diet that substitutes two meals a day with the brand's cereal, shakes and bars.
For almost a decade, the brand has promoted the diet as enabling losing up to six pounds in two weeks, but is now taking a different approach.
In a new commercial, women in Times Square reluctantly agree to get on scales in public, then are pleasantly surprised when, instead of numbers, the scales display words including satisfaction, pizazz, confidence and moxie.
The commercial, part of campaign by the Chicago office of Leo Burnett, part of the Publicis Groupe, will be introduced on Jan. 2, high season for weight-loss companies.
''We're trying to change the conversation from one that's always focused about deprivation to one that's focused on motivation,'' said Doug VanDeVelde, senior vice president for cereal marketing at Kellogg.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: With Medicare set to start reimbursing doctors for obesity treatment in January, a new campaign by the Center for Medical Weight Loss is directing ads both at patients and, for recruitment purposes, at physicians. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OBESITY (92%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); WEIGHT REDUCING CENTERS (90%); DIETING (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (89%); MEDICARE (89%); PRODUCT ENDORSEMENTS (89%); BARIATRICS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); CANCER (78%); WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (78%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); MALARIA (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); ICE CREAM (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); PRINT ADVERTISING (75%); DIABETES (73%); STROKES (73%); CELEBRITIES (69%); HEART DISEASE (60%)

PERSON: MARIAH CAREY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1122 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: Invitation to a Dialogue: Time for a Third Party?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Why does America have only two political options? Every day, the news from Washington showcases the inability of our two political parties to govern effectively.
Rigid partisanship has repeatedly hindered or prevented Republicans and Democrats from reaching compromise solutions on vital legislation, provoking a crisis of confidence in our political and economic system. And elected officials beholden to lobbyists and special interests allow their priorities to supersede those of ordinary citizens. 
The economy is stagnant, unemployment remains high, and budget deficits and the national debt keep climbing. Yet no answers are forthcoming from our representatives in Washington. The continuing dysfunction reinforces the need for a third party of the center as an alternative to the current parties.
Using the Internet and social networks to organize and raise money from small donors, this new centrist party could be independent of the special interests and able to work for the benefit of all Americans. Its hallmarks would be ethical conduct, transparency and pragmatism. Instead of being constrained by ideology, it would be guided by common sense and practicality in its search for solutions.
A centrist third party could prosper in today's political environment and end the stalemate in Washington. There is a large body of moderate Republicans, disaffected Democrats and dissatisfied independents looking for the kind of political home that this party could provide. Unhappiness with the political options now available to Americans will sooner or later translate into a groundswell for alternatives.
ROBERT A. LEVINE Westport, Conn., Dec. 23, 2011
The writer is a neurologist and the author of ''Resurrecting Democracy: A Citizen's Call for a Centrist Third Party.''
Editors' Note: We invite readers to respond to this letter for our Sunday Dialogue. We plan to publish responses and Dr. Levine's rejoinder in the Sunday Review. E-mail: letters@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAN CASSARO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); BUDGETS (76%); PUBLISHING (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); ETHICS (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1123 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Shifts in Health Care Delivery Stimulate a String of Property Deals

BYLINE: By JULIE SATOW

 BODY:
MedRite Urgent Care has a bustling office on Second Avenue and 49th Street, packed with professionals in suits rushing to have their blood drawn between meetings and neighborhood residents who like the convenience. The clinic, which provides checkups, drug testing and other primary and urgent medical care for walk-in patients, opened in February.
The company is now looking to add five new offices in Manhattan. ''The demand was immediate, and it has truly been overwhelming,'' said Samuel Fisch, the chief executive of MedRite. Douglas Kaiden, the company's medical director, said, ''Eighty percent of our patients are in and out within 30 to 40 minutes -- a guy could come in during his lunch break and make it back to the office with spare time to eat his sandwich.'' 
An aging population and the effects of new government programs are putting pressure on the health care industry to change the way it provides services and does business, and one result has been a flurry of real estate deals. This year there have been 42 such transactions in New York City, including new leases and renewals, totaling more than 1.2 million square feet, according to Cushman & Wakefield. That is nearly twice the number of last year, when 25 transactions and 550,700 square feet were leased; in 2009, there were 16 deals and 176,311 square feet leased.
Several factors are driving these real estate deals, including the aging of the baby boom generation, which is creating more demand for health care. There are also several initiatives to stop patients from relying on emergency rooms for treatment and instead have them seek primary care practices, said Marisa Manley, the president of Healthcare Real Estate Advisors.
President Obama's health care overhaul could also potentially add 32 million people to the roster of the insured, increasing demand for services. Though the ultimate outcome of the overhaul is unclear, Ms. Manley said hospitals and health care providers were taking steps to prepare for a surge in demand.
In November, for example, ColumbiaDoctors, the faculty practice of the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, signed a 25-year lease for 120,000 square feet at 1290 Avenue of the Americas. The practice will occupy the entire third floor, a small part of the second floor and have a private entrance on the ground floor at 51 West 51st Street. It also has the right of first offer for the remainder of the second floor and parts of the fourth floor, should the current tenants not renew their leases when they expire over the next few years. The practice is moving from a 93,000-square-foot office at 650 Madison Avenue.
''Large medical practices are a sector of the marketplace that is often overlooked, but there is enormous demand there,'' said Mark S. Weiss, a vice chairman of the brokerage firm Newmark Knight Frank who represented ColumbiaDoctors.
The space will be built to suit the needs of ColumbiaDoctors' 1,200 physicians, who will all have access to the offices. For one, it will enable the various specialty practices to change the number of patients' rooms or other facilities as demand dictates. ''Where we are now doesn't allow for a lot of flexibility,'' said Mark McDougle, the chief operating officer of Columbia University Medical Center, ''so as we change and grow, it has been hard to adapt the space physically.''
Community health clinics are also expanding, mostly because the weak economy has meant there are more people without health insurance who depend on their free services. Settlement Health, a clinic in East Harlem, is looking to nearly double its square footage.
''Our patient base is growing and so are the demands for our services, because in this economic downturn there are more of the uninsured than ever before,'' said Mali Trilla, the chief operating officer of the nonprofit clinic. The center owns a 22,000-square-foot building at 212 East 106th Street and is looking to lease an additional 20,000 square feet. ''We had hoped to buy a new building or renovate a building, but it is so expensive and we don't have the resources,'' she said. Instead, the clinic is expanding incrementally by renting a number of smaller spaces.
It can be challenging for doctors who want to expand to find the appropriate real estate, brokers and physicians said. Some landlords can be reluctant to rent space to doctors because of the additional features needed, like bathrooms and sinks, and the foot traffic that comes with a patient-focused business.
It can also be costly. Dr. Hugh D. Melnick runs a fertility practice, Advanced Fertility Services, with 8,000 square feet at 1625 Third Avenue. He is looking to renew his Manhattan lease or possibly relocate to a new location of equal size. ''I think that landlords are unrealistic because they keep raising their rent even though most physicians are dependent on insurance reimbursements, which haven't increased in 15 years,'' Dr. Melnick said.
Rents for medical offices on the Upper East Side range from $40 to mid-$80 a square foot, with rents at Dr. Melnick's building around $65 a square foot, said Ms. Manley, who is helping him search for new office space. Because there is a shortage of medical spaces for doctors, these tenants are sometimes forced to pay their own utilities and can be provided little in tenant improvement allowances, she said.
Some hospitals are also struggling under financial constraints. In one of the year's largest health care transactions, NYU Langone Medical Center leased 420,000 square feet at 1 Park Avenue, more than doubling its footprint at the building. But while it looks like an expansion, the hospital, which is in early talks with Continuum Health Partners for a possible strategic partnership, ''is going through a transformation, so we were hired to consolidate their office space -- it was not an expansion,'' said Josh Kuriloff, a vice chairman at Cushman & Wakefield, who represented the tenant.
Other hospitals are finding ways to grow despite financial pressures. Mount Sinai, for example, recently acquired a 15,000-square-foot parking lot at 14-20 East 103rd Street for $25 million that will be reserved for future development. It is also busy building a Center for Science and Medicine on Madison Avenue at 101st Street that will be completed in the fall and an adjacent 43-story tower at 4 East 102nd Street that will house rental apartments and include some hospital infrastructure.
Some of the city's largest landlords are beginning to embrace health care as a source of new tenants.
''Office tenants related to the health industry is definitely a growth area,'' said Steven M. Durels, executive vice president and director of leasing at the SL Green Realty Corporation. SL Green completed several health care transactions this year, including two renewals at 555 West 57th Street, with Continuum Health Partners for 113,000 square feet and the Greater New York Hospital Association for 104,000 square feet.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The MedRite Urgent Care office on Second Avenue at 49th Street opened in February. The company now wants to open five more offices in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY LEASES (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); HOSPITALS (77%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); AGING TRENDS (75%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); AGING (68%); BABY BOOMERS (68%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (66%); US PRESIDENTS (63%)

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); RICK PERRY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1124 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: A Great Divide Over Oil Riches

BYLINE: By A. G. SULZBERGER

 BODY:
STANLEY, N.D. -- Just like everybody else around here, Fred Evans spent his life coaxing a good enough living out of the earth. He grew wheat, ran cattle and, during a couple of short-lived bursts of activity, worked on the drill rigs searching for oil across the northern prairie.
But unlike his neighbors, Mr. Evans was convinced that the area would someday be home to an epic oil boom. For years he would approach others in the area offering to buy or lease the rights to drill on their land, often delivering his pitch at a time of need. More than a few, to their enduring regret, agreed.
So it was with pure jubilation that Mr. Evans, who hides a businessman's sensibility under a broad-brimmed cowboy hat and a stable of folksy aphorisms, watched one of the rumbling pump jacks on his property pulling up the oil that has made him a rich man. 
''It's like music,'' he said, raising his voice over the noise. ''Ka-ching, ka-ching, ka-ching.''
Sure enough, money is flowing by the barrelful into Mountrail County, transforming a tiny community once proudly situated in the middle of nowhere into an unexpected oasis of prosperity at the heart of the nation's biggest oil play.
No other county in the state has had a bigger jump in the number of households earning more than $100,000, which spiked to 21 percent from 6 percent during the last decade, according to an analysis of census data. But much like the crude below, the benefits have spread unevenly, often as a result of decisions made long ago.
As some residents find themselves cashing oil royalty checks worth tens of thousands of dollars a month or more, many of their neighbors are resigned to receiving almost nothing from the wells that pepper the landscape and even their own land -- aside from the headaches that go with living in a boomtown.
Marlene Gunderson, who works alongside her husband and daughter at the county courthouse researching the ownership history of every acre of property for oil companies, stumbles across the names of neighbors who are receiving huge checks for mineral interests, though she has none herself.
''That's just the way life goes,'' she mused. ''Some people get. Some don't.''
As with any major boom -- from real estate to tech stocks to natural resources -- the sudden split between the winners and the witnesses has been painful. But this is happening in a small town, where proximity and familiarity make a sudden reordering all the more difficult.
''It's not all good,'' said Leslie Anderson, who is among the lucky locals who sometimes make more from a single month of oil payments than he used to earn in a year of farming. ''There are lots of families fighting that got along before.''
After more than five years of oil-driven growth, Mountrail County, which a decade ago had shrunk to less than half its peak size before the Great Depression, registered an official population of 7,673 in the 2010 census, though local leaders believe there are thousands more.
With the unemployment rate at only 1.3 percent, local sons and daughters are no longer leaving to find work.
And as the rest of the nation watched incomes drop or stagnate, in Mountrail County median income rose more than 50 percent in the last decade, the fifth-highest gain in the nation. Residents earned on average an additional $20,000, adjusted for inflation, according to an analysis of census data by Andrew A. Beveridge, a demographer at Queens College in New York.
At one of the local banks in Stanley, the county seat, deposits have increased to $135 million from $43 million before the boom. But the new wealth is not always easy to spot.
Residents say a culture of modest living means they don't know for sure which of their neighbors are making money off oil, though they have suspicions.
''I'm seeing people that have never owned a new vehicle in their life driving a new car,'' said Wade Enget, a local lawyer, who estimated that about half the residents are receiving oil money. ''People who never took a day off are going on vacation.''
The main driver is the payments that residents receive for leasing mineral rights. In 2009, the most recent year statistics are available, the signing bonuses and the royalties paid for the oil extracted from private land totaled about $1 billion statewide, according to an industry-financed study by North Dakota State University.
Though many of those checks go out of state -- to the far-flung descendants of homesteaders or to companies that bought mineral rights -- more than half stay in North Dakota, helping double the number of state residents earning more than $1 million a year. And the checks are likely to continue, said Lynn D. Helms, director of the state's Department of Mineral Resources, citing estimates that the average well will pay about $10 million in royalties over three decades.
Living in a simple trailer home, Lenin Dibble reveals few signs that he has suddenly become a wealthy man. A retired farmer and rancher, Mr. Dibble receives royalty checks of as much as $80,000 a month for his small share of mineral rights. To explain his frugal lifestyle, he pulled out a letter from his father, yellowed from the passage of half a century.
''When you get a few dollars in your pocket never advertise it,'' he read. ''And hold a conference before spending any of it.''
And as he finished, Mr. Dibble insisted he does not need any of the oil money, which he has been saving for his adult children, because Social Security and payments for leasing out his farmland were enough. What he and others in town notice more than the newfound money are the problems: locking the door to his house, taking the keys out of his car and seeing a quiet community where everyone knew everyone overrun by the bustle of strangers.
''I wish it had never happened,'' he said.
Because land and the rights to whatever lies beneath it can be sold separately in North Dakota, only about one in five royalty checks goes to the owner of the land where the oil is being extracted. Though some residents never acquired mineral rights when they bought property, the payday has been most distressing for those living on longtime family estates where the mineral rights were sold off, often for a tiny fraction of their current value.
''There are only two reasons people sold,'' said Roger Cymbaluk, a prominent real estate broker in nearby Williston. ''One, they didn't know what they were worth; two, they were desperate.''
Some used mineral rights in lieu of cash to settle debts during hard times -- trading some acres to banks to satisfy a mortgage. Others sold them to savvier industry veterans after oil was first discovered six decades ago, which is why an outsize portion of the royalty checks for North Dakota oil head each month to Texas.
Stanley Wright, who used to sell farm equipment in Stanley, described how he took a substantial loss -- and suffered the wrath of his wife -- when he allowed two farmers to pay him with mineral acres. Now that the gamble has paid off decades later, he wrestles with guilt over his windfall. His eyes well up and his hands start to shake as he insists he never took advantage of anyone. ''Minerals in those days weren't worth anything,'' he said.
In recent decades, people have been more reluctant to sell, though offers keep coming. For those landowners who do not own the mineral rights, the usual compensation has been a few thousand dollars for the disruption of hosting an oil rig. Even with the dust, noise and traffic, the most frustrating part is watching the wells on his property earning money for other people, said Mark Ellis, a farmer and rancher.
''It's more interesting when you're getting a piece of it,'' he said.
Living just down the road from where the skeleton of a one-room schoolhouse still stands, Mr. Evans, 73, is unapologetic, if vague, about his success, which he said resulted from decades of groundwork.
Now he is described variously by neighbors as the richest man and the biggest crook in Mountrail County. Some of them recounted visits during which Mr. Evans tried to offer them deals they believed were designed to take advantage of their ignorance or misfortune. Several noted that even his sisters took him to court in a dispute over family mineral rights.
Mr. Evans, who calls himself ''a Podunk from farm country,'' brushes it all aside. ''I'm definitely not a fortune teller,'' he said. ''But I just knew this thing would take off. I've been wrong other times, but I felt it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fred Evans's property outside Stanley, N.D., where his bet on mineral rights has made him rich. A drilling rig pumps oil on the property. ''It's like music,'' he said. Left, Brenda and Richard Jorgenson researched title records at the Mountrail County Courthouse. More photographs at nytimes.com/national. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHICS: Oil Means Rising Incomes in North Dakota ...Median income increased by 52 percent between 2000 and 2010 in Mountrail County, the largest oil producer. The statewide increase was 6 percent.
And Many Households Are Newly Wealthy: The percent of households with $100,000 or more in annual income increased by 5 points between 2000 and 2010 in the state's oil-producing counties. (Sources: Andrew A. Beveridge, Queens College Sociology Department
Census Bureau
 North Dakota Department of Mineral Resources) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (89%); WHEAT FARMING (78%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ROYALTIES (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (64%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (64%); CENSUS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1125 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: No Relief In Report On Housing

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
The latest housing report indicates that further declines are in store for the weak American market, or at best a period of long, slow recovery.
Home prices in the United States fell by more than 1 percent in October, a survey showed on Tuesday, but the low prices have attracted investors to some of the cities where they have declined the most.
The private Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller index, a closely watched measure of home prices, was down 1.2 percent from September, according to nonseasonally adjusted data tracking 20 cities. 
Nineteen of the cities experienced price declines, with prices reaching new lows in Atlanta since its 2007 peak and in Las Vegas, from its 2006 peak, S.& P. said. Only Phoenix posted a gain, with a 0.3 percent rise, the Case-Shiller data showed.
''Atlanta and the Midwest are regions that really stand out in terms of recent relative weakness,'' said David M. Blitzer, the chairman of the index committee at S.& P.
Another report, however, pointed to some recovery and helped ease the sting of the report on home prices. The Conference Board's consumer confidence index rose to 64.5 in December from 55.2 in November, reaching its highest level since April. Analysts had forecast a level of 58.9.
''Consumer optimism is on the rise as job prospects improve, and the summer doldrums seem to be behind most Americans,'' said Chris G. Christopher Jr., the United States economist with IHS Global Insight. ''In November, the unemployment rate fell to 8.6 percent, and gasoline prices are falling, offering some relief to consumer mood and spending.''
But neither the discouraging home-price data nor the sharp gain in confidence appeared to have much impact on the stock market in the United States, which is winding down the year with light trading. The indexes hovered between gains and losses most of the day.
The Dow Jones industrial average was down about 0.02 percent, or 2.65 points, to 12,291.35. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose less than a point to 1,265.43, while the Nasdaq was up 0.3 percent at 2,625.20.
Both the S.& P. and the Dow are on track to finish 2011 in positive territory, despite the lackluster investor sentiment and volatility that uneven domestic economic data and concerns over the euro zone sovereign debt crisis stirred up in the past year. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 6/32 to 100. The yield fell to 2 percent, from 2.02 percent on Friday. Markets were closed on Monday.
The housing sector has been destabilized since the financial crisis of 2008, hit by foreclosures, a glut of supply, weak demand, and a struggling job market -- all of which is making for a lackluster recovery.
Patrick Newport, an analyst with IHS Global Insight, forecast that those factors could force down prices another 5 percent to 10 percent next year.
''Our forecast is they will hit bottom in the second half of 2012,'' said Mr. Newport. ''We still will have a lot of foreclosures. That is still going to stay high for another several years.''
The Case-Shiller report on housing prices for October was worse than expected, exceeding analysts' forecasts for a 0.4 percent drop for that month, compared with the seasonally adjusted 0.6 percent monthly decline in the 20-city index. The index was down 3.4 percent from a year earlier, with Atlanta recording the worst annualized rate, dropping by 11.7 percent.
However, housing statistics from other sources since the October survey showed relatively healthy activity, Mr. Blitzer wrote in the S.& P. report.
''I think going forward we are going to be bumping along the bottom,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''I do not see this as getting ready for a big plunge.''
The National Association of Realtors said last week that sales of single-family houses, town houses, condos and co-ops in November rose to 4.42 million, their highest level in 10 months, according to its latest revised data. But there were also signs that buyers were still nervous and lenders were being cautious about approving loans -- the association said that a third of all contracts signed in November did not lead to closed sales. Data on starts for single-family housing also rose, Mr. Blitzer also noted.
Robin Lemon, a realtor with the AtlantaPros Team, said parts of Atlanta have been particularly hard-hit by the recession, affecting companies and in turn, nearby housing.
''Obviously there are some pockets that are not seeing a decrease in home values,'' said Ms. Lemon, who was in between showing condos to a client. ''The hard hit ones are those areas where the businesses have suffered. South Atlanta has been hit really, really hard.''
She and other experts in the business said that the low prices were attracting investors who were taking advantage of low rates on mortgages.
''There are definitely those folks who are taking advantage of the market and buyers are definitely out there, but they do not want to pay full price and they expect a 10 percent price reduction if it is a foreclosure,'' she said.
In Nevada, investors were snapping up single-family homes and restoring them, said Paul Bell, the president of the Greater Las Vegas Association of Realtors. The association said on its Web site that the median price of single-family homes sold in November was $125,000, up 3.3 percent from $121,000 in October.
''We are going through a lot of current inventory that is not in very good condition,'' Mr. Bell said in a telephone interview. ''We are seeing a big increase in that type of activity, and they are paying cash and going in and doing a first-class job in getting these single-family homes restored. Investors can lease those homes pretty quickly and get a cash flow until the market is ready for them.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (93%); REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (86%); STOCK EXCHANGES (85%); BOND MARKETS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); FORECLOSURE (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); DEBT CRISIS (68%); EMPLOYMENT (65%); EURO CRISIS (60%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); EURO ZONE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1126 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: Bound for Local Glory at Last

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
TULSA, Okla. -- Oklahoma has always had a troubled relationship with her native son Woody Guthrie. The communist sympathies of America's balladeer infuriated local detractors. In 1999 a wealthy donor's objections forced the Cowboy Museum in Oklahoma City to cancel a planned exhibition on Guthrie organized by the Smithsonian Institution. It wasn't until 2006, nearly four decades after his death, that the Oklahoma Hall of Fame got around to adding him to its ranks.
But as places from California to the New York island get ready to celebrate the centennial of Guthrie's birth, in 2012, Oklahoma is finally ready to welcome him home. The George Kaiser Family Foundation in Tulsa plans to announce this week that it is buying the Guthrie archives from his children and building an exhibition and study center to honor his legacy.
''Oklahoma was like his mother,'' said his daughter Nora Guthrie, throwing back her tangle of gray curls as she reached out in an embrace. ''Now he's back in his mother's arms.'' 
The archive includes the astonishing creative output of Guthrie during his 55 years. There are scores of notebooks and diaries written in his precise handwriting and illustrated with cartoons, watercolors, stickers and clippings; hundreds of letters; 581 artworks; a half-dozen scrapbooks; unpublished short stories, novels and essays; as well as the lyrics to the 3,000 or more songs he scribbled on scraps of paper, gift wrap, napkins, paper bags and place mats. Much of the material has rarely or never been seen in public, including the lyrics to most of the songs. Guthrie could not write musical notation, so the melodies have been lost.
The foundation, which paid $3 million for the archives, is planning a kickoff celebration on March 10, with a conference in conjunction with the University of Tulsa and a concert sponsored by the Grammy Museum featuring his son Arlo Guthrie and other musicians. Although the collection won't be transferred until 2013, preparations for its arrival are already in motion. Construction workers are clearing out piles of red brick and wire mesh from the loading dock in the northeast end of the old Tulsa Paper Company building, in the Brady District of the city, where the planned Guthrie Center is taking shape. The center is part of an ambitious plan to revitalize the downtown arts community.
Now that the back walls are punched out, workers trucking wheelbarrows of concrete can look across the tracks to the tower built by BOK Financial, which George Kaiser, whose foundation bears his name, presides over as chairman. Forbes magazine ranks Mr. Kaiser as the richest man in Oklahoma and No. 31 on its Forbes 400 list.
Ken Levit, the foundation's executive director, said he thought of doing something for Guthrie after the Hall of Fame induction. Nowhere in Tulsa, he said, is there even a plaque paying homage to this folk legend, who composed ''This Land Is Your Land''; performed with Peter Seeger and Lead Belly; wrote the fictionalized autobiography ''Bound for Glory''; and sang at countless strikes and migrant labor protests in the 1930s and '40s. Mr. Levit began a more than three-year campaign to win the consent of Ms. Guthrie, who had taken custody of the boxes that her mother, Marjorie Guthrie, had stowed away in the basement of her home in Howard Beach, Queens.
Ms. Guthrie, who as one of Guthrie's youngest children, didn't really know her father until Huntington's disease began to rob him of his sanity, movement and speech many years before his death, in 1967, said she only rediscovered the kind of man he once was when she started to page through the boxes about 15 years ago.
''I fell in love through this material with my father,'' Ms. Guthrie, 61, a former dancer, said from her office in Mount Kisco, N.Y.
Her older brothers Arlo and Joady were happy to have her take custody of the papers. Of Arlo, she said, ''He was filled up with being Woody Guthrie's son, so he was glad the responsibility moved to me.''
She said the information contained in the archives can clear up misconceptions about her father that she has frequently heard at scholarly conferences and read in articles, including that he didn't write love songs or sexually provocative lyrics. She has also opened up his notebooks to contemporary musicians like Billy Bragg and Wilco, Jackson Browne, Rob Wasserman, Lou Reed and Tom Morello so that they could compose music to her father's words.
One of those artists, Jonatha Brooke, is starting off the Guthrie Foundation and Grammy Museum's yearlong centennial celebrations on Jan. 18 at Lincoln Center with a concert of new songs she wrote for the lyrics.
Woody Guthrie's music has also had added play time this year as Arlo Guthrie, Mr. Seeger, and other musicians have sung his protest songs at Occupy Wall Street demonstrations in New York and elsewhere.
While this poor folks' hero and the richest man in Oklahoma might not seem to have much in common, Mr. Kaiser's foundation, with its $4 billion endowment, is dedicated to helping Tulsa's most disadvantaged. ''I cried for an hour after meeting George Kaiser,'' Ms. Guthrie said. ''This puts together what I've always dreamed of.''
Brian Hosmer, a history professor at the University of Tulsa who is organizing the March conference -- ironically titled ''Different Shades of Red'' -- said Guthrie's legacy is contested in some quarters.
''There is no doubt there will be some voices in opposition to the way Guthrie is being emphasized -- Oklahoma is about the reddest state you can have,'' Mr. Hosmer explained, referring to its conservatism. ''And when Woody Guthrie was a boy, Oklahoma was also the reddest state because we had more socialists elected to public office than any other.''
Guthrie always said he was influenced by the songs he had heard his mother sing in his hometown, Okemah, about an hour's drive from Tulsa, with a population of 3,000. His radicalism offended local officials, who scorned Guthrie until an Okemah resident, Sharon Jones, decided to do something about it in the late 1990s. One of her cousins, an avid Guthrie fan, came to visit and was shocked there wasn't a single mention of her idol. So Ms. Jones, who died in 2009, created the Woody Guthrie Coalition, which organized an annual folk festival, called WoodyFest, around his birthday on July 14, as well as a statue, a mural and a memorial. Sensitive to the area's Baptist beliefs (including Ms. Jones's), no alcohol was permitted at the celebration until this year.
Dee Jones, Sharon's husband, explained that Guthrie ''was kind of taboo because some influential people in this town thought Woody Guthrie had communist leanings.'' But once the community realized that the 3,000 or so attendees brought in business, everyone got behind it, Mr. Jones said.
A couple of blocks from the memorial statue, visitors can run a finger along the fading letters ''W-O-O-D-Y'' on a fragment of Main Street's original sidewalk, where the 16-year-old Guthrie signed his name in wet cement in 1928.
Mary Jo Guthrie Edgmon, Woody's 90-year-old sister, always hosts a pancake breakfast during the four-day music festival. A white-haired, elfin woman with a persistent smile and a sharp wit, Ms. Edgmon remembered how her brother was always making music.
''You'd sit down at the dinner table, and there'd be glasses of water, and he'd pick up a fork and play the glasses all around the table,'' she said. ''If it made music, he played it.''
Reciting snatches of Guthrie's poetry and songs, Ms. Edgmon said her brother never cared what people thought of him and did not necessarily hold a particular affection for his birthplace. ''He didn't get attached to anything,'' she said. ''Everywhere was his home.''
Still, after so many years of Oklahomans' snubbing her brother's memory, she said the whole family was thrilled he was being honored: ''What we were all shooting for,'' she said, ''was acknowledgment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Woody Guthrie, around 1943. Above, a watercolor and a typed lyric sheet in a 1952 notebook, part of a rich trove of personal material that makes up the Guthrie archives. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AL AUMULLER/WOODY GUTHRIE ARCHIVES
BRADLY BROWN/WOODY GUTHRIE ARCHIVES) (C1)
 Left, Mary Jo Guthrie Edgmon, Woody Guthrie's sister. Guthrie's hometown, Okemah, Okla., did not honor him until lately: today the town has a statue, far left, and an annual festival with performances at the Crystal theater, bottom left. Below left, an old paper company building in Tulsa is being made into a Woody Guthrie archives and study center. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHANE BROWN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); MUSIC (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); PAPER BAG & COATED PAPER MFG (71%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); PAPER MFG (64%); SPONSORSHIP (63%); PAPER & PACKAGING (52%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: BOK FINANCIAL CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (58%)

TICKER: BOKF (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TULSA, OK, USA (96%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (92%) OKLAHOMA, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1127 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: Free-Spending Brazilians Courted in South Florida

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

 BODY:
MIAMI -- Even in a city that has embraced so many waves of Latinos that it is jokingly referred to as the only South American capital in North America, no one group has been as courted and pampered as the Brazilians.
Flush with cash from a booming economy and enamored of luxury, Brazilians are visiting South Florida in droves and spending millions of dollars on vacation condominiums, clothes, jewelry, furniture, cars and art, all of which are much less expensive here than in Brazil.
As a thank-you, Floridians are creating innovative ways to make the Brazilians happy and to encourage them to keep dipping into their wallets. Real estate agents, for example, have cobbled together one-stop-shopping firms that offer interior decorating and concierge services as well as legal advice and visa help. Some agents have even opened offices in Brazil to simplify the process.
Aware that Brazilians will not spend freely unless they feel at home, shopping malls have enticed them by hiring Portuguese-speaking sales clerks to proffer Dolce & Gabbana dresses and Hublot watches. Even Target has posted help-wanted signs in Portuguese. 
Brazilian restaurants are also flourishing across Miami, including a popular chain from Brazil -- Giraffas -- that includes Brazilian cheese bread and special cuts of meat on the menu.
''Hola'' and air kisses are still staples here, but ''Oi'' -- a Brazilian greeting -- is making noticeable inroads.
''We come to Miami to invest because in my country housing is very expensive,'' said Claudio Coppola Di Todaro, a hedge fund investor from Sao Paulo who recently bought a condominium at Trump Towers in Sunny Isles Beach and another at the Trump SoHo in Manhattan (Brazilians also love New York). ''We like Miami to go on vacation a few times a year. Many Brazilians do this now.''
While the United States and Europe continue to grapple with recession, Brazil's economy gallops forward, powered by exports, a growing manufacturing base and abundant natural resources. Unemployment in October was 5.8 percent, and this week it passed Britain to become the sixth-largest economy in the world.
Brand-conscious Brazilians love to use their money -- cash, above all -- ranking first per capita in spending among the top 10 groups of foreign visitors to the United States, a list that includes the French, British and Germans. In all, 1.2 million Brazilians visited in 2010 and spent $5.9 billion, or $4,940 for each visitor. Only travelers from India and China outspent the Brazilians, but far fewer visit, and they are not among the top 10.
The Commerce Department expects the total number of Brazilian visitors will be even higher this year. Their economic impact is so powerful that the travel, restaurant, lodging and retail industries, along with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, have been lobbying Washington to let Brazilians travel here without visas, as the citizens of the European Union countries do. In November, the State Department agreed to add more consular officers to speed up the visa process.
American Airlines now has 52 flights a week to Miami from five cities in Brazil, and has applied for more routes. Because it receives the highest number of visitors from Brazil, Florida has benefited most from the country's new wealth and the expansion of its middle class. Most of the Brazilians who come to the United States visit Florida, and in the first nine months of this year, an estimated 1.1 million Brazilians spent $1.6 billion in the state, an increase of nearly 60 percent from the previous year. Among foreign nations, only Canada sends more visitors to Florida.
The Brazilians' money has helped resuscitate the real estate market in Miami. Foreigners account for more than half of all property sales in Miami, and condominium towers that once sat empty are quickly selling out.
''Brazilians in many ways have been the saving grace here,'' said Edgardo Defortuna, president of Fortune International Realty, which has offices in Brazil and Miami. ''Price is not much of an issue for them.''
Brazilians here slip into the Latin American lifestyle -- late dinners and familiar fashions, food familiar music. And the relative safety of the United States is a bonus. Rio de Janeiro's murder rate, while declining, is nearly triple of that in Miami.
Eager to shop and spend time with friends and family, extended networks of Brazilians often buy condominiums in the same building, like the W in South Beach.
''In Miami, they can come here and wear expensive watches and drive their convertible cars, and nobody will cut your arm for a piece of jewelry, like happens at home,'' said Alexandre Piquet, a Brazilian lawyer for Piquet Realty, which was founded by his brother, Cristiano, a well-known race-car driver. ''Here we don't have to worry about kids crossing the street and getting kidnapped, some of the issues we still face down there. It's the reality.''
Piquet Realty, founded in 2005 has doubled its business in the past year, Cristiano Piquet said. Some apartments it sells come fully furnished by Artefacto, a prominent Brazilian furniture designer. If Brazilians need help with legal transactions, tax matters or immigration advice, the firm offers that, too. If a customer wants a Ferrari, Piquet Realty arranges it.
Like so many businesses in South Florida, the firm aggressively promotes itself in Brazil, as does Miami's tourism board and Gov. Rick Scott of Florida, who traveled to Brazil this year on a trade mission.
Now, Orlando is trying to lure Brazilians, who prefer the city's outlet malls over its theme parks. Pegasus Transportation operates regular shopping tours, bringing thousands of Brazilians to the malls. The Tommy Hilfiger clothing outlet and H.H. Gregg electronic store open early just for them.
''They are buying everything imaginable,'' said Claudia Menezes, vice president of Pegasus. ''Laptops, cameras, brand clothes -- lots of Prada and Louis Vuitton.''
This zest for spreading cash is the main reason why the visa battle is beginning to resonate on Capitol Hill.
There are only four American Consular offices in Brazil, a country almost the size of the United States. To get a visa, many Brazilian must travel long distances to be interviewed at a consular office. Despite the onerous process, there were 820,000 visa applications this year, with an average wait of 50 days -- too long, tourism officials say.
Lobbyists are pressuring Congress and the State Department to change the process. Barring that, they are pushing for more consular offices and a pilot program that would screen visa applicants through video conferences. Seven bills are pending in Congress on the visa issue.
In the meantime, tourism officials say, Europe siphons away a large number of Brazilians because traveling there is so much easier. Western Europe receives 52 percent of all Brazilians who travel abroad and the United States 29 percent.
''You could probably double the number of Brazilians in the United States'' if visas were not required, said Patricia Rojas, a vice president at the U.S. Travel Association. ''We are at a complete disadvantage.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cristiano Piquet, center, showed a Miami Beach condominium this month to a potential buyer from Brazil. At left, the end-of-the-year party for Mr. Piquet's real estate firm. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON HENRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RETAILERS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); LODGING (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); INTERIOR DECORATING (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); PORTUGAL (90%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1128 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: When the Family's Foodies Visit

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
IF it's Tuesday, this must be Jean Georges, and the end must be nigh.
This is the thought that assails me, delighting and saddening in equal measures, twice a year, when my parents arrive in New York for long-weekend visits that are devoted to a sumptuous, relentless and sometimes dizzying tour of the best the city's restaurants have to offer.
My parents practically live to eat. Now in their 70s, they qualified as foodies back in the '70s, and it's no exaggeration to say that their chief hobby over the half-century and more of their marriage has been eating well, both at home and in restaurants.
I grew up in the San Francisco Bay Area, and I still remember newsletters that would arrive regularly, by Jack Shelton, giving lengthy reviews of the better restaurants in the city and its environs. My father collected them and kept them in thick black binders that I would sometimes pore over with curiosity. 
At home my parents eat out three or so times a week. But when they come to New York, we sample the city's restaurants in five-day, two-big-meals-a-day binges that have become something of a legend among my friends and acquaintances, who are at times envious, appalled and invited.
It's pretty standard for tourists in New York to eat all their meals out. And for that matter it's not particularly unusual for New Yorkers to eat out two meals a day. But surely few among us eat lunch at Le Bernardin and dinner at Babbo on one day, lunch at Bouley and dinner at Cafe Boulud the next.
That's what my parents and I do on their visits, racking up uncountable calories, not to mention hefty credit card bills, at a breathless pace.
Before Occupy Wall Street sets up a miniature encampment in my living room, I should establish that my parents are far from indulgent people in most regards, although they have obviously retired with enough funds to underwrite these visits.
In many ways they are downright frugal. They get their books from the library. They have zero interest in shopping for clothes (or indeed shopping at all) unless absolutely necessary. And their nightly hotel budget can be handily dwarfed by the money they spend on just one meal.
We have established certain parameters for these debauches. Three longtime favorites are invariably on the docket for each trip: Le Bernardin, Bouley and Jean Georges, where we always conclude with an always sublime lunch. We vow to ease out with just two courses, and always order a third, thanks to the flexible lunch menu in the dining room.
And since David Chang exploded onto the scene, Momofuku Ssam Bar has been added to the must list, for the pork buns alone, which are always in contention as the dish of the trip.
It would never occur to me to eat two such rich meals in a single day in the course of my regular life. Nor would it occur to my parents; they eat raw vegetables, yogurt and a V-8 for lunch four days a week back in California.
They also spend more hours at the gym during an average week than I spend in a month, doing yoga and cardio and weights, a training regimen that makes it possible for them to indulge in these spectacular bouts of overeating.
Still, they do make attempts to eat sensibly, even at this level. A running joke that crops up at least once or twice a trip, spoken with wry inflection by either: ''It's just a little seafood, after all.'' This, of a slab of Dover sole gilded in butter at Le Bernardin, or a steaming pile of fritto misto at Esca.
An old friend who joined us for one lunch recalls being gently encouraged by my mother, ''It's customary to order two courses.'' In her quasi-baritonal voice this sounded daunting to him. I believe there was one time when we felt so sated by binge's end that we settled for just an entree, but the details of this remarkable occasion are lost to me.
Mom is the more demanding diner. Long waits between courses raise her eyebrows, and since she likes to drink lots of water with meals, the quality of a restaurant's water service is practically an obsession.
It's almost impossible, on the other hand, to ruffle Dad. Unless, of course, the steamer clams he so prizes at Docks -- where we often have a lobster meal halfway through the trip to lighten things up (just a little seafood, after all) -- are unavailable.
There was also the incident of the $28 Kir royale at Daniel. A scandal, in my father's view, resulting in temporary banishment from the repertory. (Confession: I was the one who ordered the drink.)
Having been married for that half-century, my parents have their dining rituals and food favorites down pat. They always consult each other to agree on two first courses, and then share them, dividing the third scallop, say, with the precision of a jeweler cutting stones. They never share their second courses, and I have never thought to ask why. Some things in life you just don't question.
They eat almost anything, but each has favorites. For Mom it's risotto and mushrooms of any kind, as well as sweetbreads. Dad is partial to soft-shell crab and roast suckling pig. We are still mourning the loss of Lespinasse, which had a world-class suckling pig. Eleven Madison Park's chef, Daniel Humm, known to my parents from his San Francisco days, specializes in same, but the restaurant's rather gnomic new menu system, a prix-fixe menu with each course described by a single word, pushed past the precious factor and turned them off.
Among their other idiosyncrasies is a general disdain for dessert. You have to economize on calories somewhere, after all, and unless dessert is enforced -- included on a prix-fixe menu -- we never order it. Perhaps their only food allergy is to the concept of brunch, now ubiquitous even at a number of the city's higher-end restaurants.
My friends often ask how it is humanly possible to consume so much rich food in so little time. I answer, with a martyr's sigh: ''I don't know how we do it, but we do.'' It's certainly true that even after lunch at Le Bernardin, where you can eat tremendously well without emerging feeling like an engorged duck primed to donate your liver to the cause of foie gras, the prospect of another rich meal a mere five hours in the distance seems more a threat than a golden reward.
In between meals, my parents expend a few calories by going to museums or the theater. (Much as they like theater, evening performances are out of the question, because they conflict with the dinner hour.) I sometimes accompany them but just as often feign work duties or claim I have done the de Kooning, and sheepishly go home to lie down for at least a couple of hours, willing my digestive system to work faster. I think it helps, at least a little.
I realize that few sane people would consider gorging in this calorie-reckless fashion even if budgets permitted. And I admit it might be preferable to space out these meals across the year, dining out in this style with my parents twice a month instead of shoehorning so much exquisite food into just a few days of pleasure.
But there is also something exciting about the marathon aspects of these visits. And since we are separated by a few thousand miles, these breakneck binges are their only way (our only way) of maximizing our opportunities for top-tier dining in what we all consider to be the world's best food city.
And, oh yes, maximizing our time together. One advantage of eating at this level is that you do spend expansive amounts of time lingering over meals. I'd like to say we spend most of it discussing global politics, or cooing over pictures of my sisters' children, or analyzing the ins and outs of the plays they have seen. But I have to sheepishly admit we spend a lot of the time talking about what we have eaten, what we are currently eating, and what we will be eating next.
Dismiss us as a perversely narrow-minded bunch if you must, but remember that every family has its own habits, shared rites and modes of communicating affection (or disaffection, of course).
A mutual pleasure in eating well has become an important part of our family's way of keeping in touch, and keeping tight the bonds that we are by nature too unsentimental -- and, yes, too busy talking about food -- to articulate.
It takes only a few days of minimal eating and dedicated gym-going before I find myself looking forward to my parents' next visit, pondering the happy possibilities this great food city has to offer.
Maybe next spring we'll put Craft on the docket, and they will once again have those simply prepared soft-shell crabs we've been commemorating for years.
Six Days, Many Courses: His parents' visit means much serious dining for Charles Isherwood. Thurs. dinner Fri. lunch Fri. dinner Sat. lunch Sat. dinner Sun. lunch Sun. dinner Mon. lunch Mon. dinner Tues. lunch Wallse Le Bernardin Junoon Bouley Docks ABC Kitchen Locanda Verde Momofuku Ssam Bar Cafe Boulud Jean Georges

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY MARIA CORTE MAIDAGAN) (D1
 D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); BUDGETS (67%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1129 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: South Florida Poised for Birth of Casino Gambling

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
MIAMI -- When the Florida Legislature returns from its holiday recess, it will consider a bill to allow three Las Vegas-style casino resorts to be built in the southern part of the state. Lobbyists for the gambling industry have swarmed Tallahassee, trying to ensure that the bill passes.
But the mere possibility of casino gambling has already had an impact on commercial real estate in Miami-Dade and Broward Counties. The biggest single move came last May when Genting, a casino company based in Malaysia, bought the Miami Herald building, overlooking Biscayne Bay, for $236 million.
Genting released designs of what it hoped to build on the site: an extravaganza called Resorts World Miami, which in addition to a casino could have up to 5,000 guest rooms, 1,000 condominiums, 100 restaurants and luxury shops and a 3.6-acre rooftop lagoon that looks like something from ''The Little Mermaid.'' The project would cost $3.8 billion, according to Christian Goode, the president of Resorts World Miami. (The bill requires an investment of at least $2 billion per project.) 
And last month, the CIM Group, a real estate investment company based in Los Angeles, bought a stake in a partnership that plans to develop Miami Worldcenter, a 21.9-acre mixed-use project in downtown Miami.
The partnership has received master plan zoning approval for a nine-block, 11 million-square-foot development that, according to its news release, ''could easily accommodate a gaming component.''
The Miami Worldcenter site is now mostly parking lots and weeds. Plans for that development were announced in 2008, but the project was shelved when the recession hit. Sissy DeMaria, a publicist for Miami Worldcenter Associates, a joint venture between the South Florida-based Falcone Group and Centurion Partners, wrote in an e-mail that -- unlike the Genting complex -- ''the Miami Worldcenter has all of its permits in place and is 'shovel ready.' ''
Already, the casino operator Las Vegas Sands has expressed interest in operating a gambling-based resort at Miami Worldcenter, Andy Abboud, the vice president for government affairs for Las Vegas Sands, wrote in an e-mail.
And Genting has continued its buying spree, spending several hundred million dollars on parcels adjacent to the Miami Herald site.
One of the purchases was the Omni, a mixed-use development that includes 1.5 million square feet -- much of it a defunct mall -- and a 2,700-space parking garage, where it said it could get a slot machine casino up and running in a matter of months.
Colin Au, a Genting principal, told The Miami Herald, ''The Omni is what's called a decorator-ready solution.'' He said Genting was taking ''a calculated risk,'' in buying the properties before the Legislature has voted on the gambling bill.
Mr. Goode of Genting wrote in an e-mail that the company would develop Resorts World with or without gambling, but that the timeline would be ''significantly accelerated'' should the Legislature approve the casino component.
The Omni facility would resemble the Resorts World facility that opened at Aqueduct racetrack in Queens in October with some 5,000 video ''slot machines'' and electronic games, including baccarat tables managed by robotic dealers. Genting estimated that the proposed casino at the Omni would create 5,000 jobs, while its entire Resorts World project would create about 30,000.
But the mega-resorts could be bad news for established businesses in the Miami area, because they tend to provide their customers with everything they need under one roof.
''They're going to be saying, 'Here's a free room, go downstairs and gamble,' '' said Marty Z. Margulies, a prominent South Florida developer, explaining why other area hotels might lose business from gambling, rather than gain it.
The development of one or both resorts could also threaten the Miami Beach Convention Center, which at 640,000 square feet is considered too small for many gatherings. Genting plans to include some 700,000 square feet of meeting space in its Resorts World complex, while the Miami Worldcenter developers have floated the number 1.5 million square feet.
Either would be serious competition for the Miami Beach facility, which each year hosts Art Basel. It was once the nation's fourth-largest center but is now the 27th largest.
In part to compete with the possible newcomers, Miami Beach is considering an expansion of its center. The giant firm Arquitectonica (which is also designing the Resorts World complex) was hired by the city to study the possibility of doubling the size of the convention center; its report estimated the cost of the project at $648 million.
It is unclear where Miami Beach will get the money. The city manager, Jorge M. Gonzalez, has been meeting with potential partners, one of whom, the casino magnate Steve Wynn, offered to pay the entire cost of the new center if he could build his own casino near it, according to news reports.
But just two weeks ago, the Miami Beach City Commission voted unanimously to oppose the gambling expansion. (The state law would require local approval before a casino can be built.) The vote brought cheers from a standing-room-only crowd, which included local business owners.
One major hotelier said the decision could put Miami Beach at a disadvantage. ''If casinos are approved for the city of Miami, Miami Beach should have the opportunity to have casino gaming in a luxury resort right on the beach,'' said Phil Goldfarb, the president of the Fontainebleau Miami Beach, which with 1,500 rooms is by far the city's largest hotel.
Gambling's effect on residential property values is another question. Properly planned, ''casino development would enhance real estate values in South Florida,'' said Philip Spiegelman, a principal of ISG, a realty company that provides marketing for large condominium developers. (Mr. Spiegelman has a partnership with the Related Group; that company's chairman, Jorge M. Perez, was one of the sellers of the Omni Center.)
But Diane Lieberman, a leading condominium broker in Miami and Miami Beach, said she did not think the arrival of gambling would have any effect on the condominium market. She said she and her husband, Alan Lieberman, learned that lesson the hard way, buying about 10 houses in Atlantic City when gambling became legal there. ''The prices didn't go up,'' she said, adding that gambling ''didn't improve the area. It just added casinos.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A developer, Genting, bought the Miami Herald building, topmost structure at center, and hopes to build Resorts World Miami, a casino and luxury hotel. Below is an artist's rendering of the proposed Resorts World project. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PATRICK FARRELL/ASSOCIATED PRESS/MIAMI HERALD
 ARQUITECTONICA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (95%); GAMING (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); RESORTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); ZONING (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (71%); RESTAURANTS (68%); JOINT VENTURES (65%); RECESSION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP (58%)

TICKER: LVS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MALAYSIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



1130 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Meets Reality

 BODY:
Wall Street reported nearly $3 billion in losses in the third quarter of 2011, reducing profits through September to $9.6 billion, which was well below forecasts, according to a recent analysis by the New York State comptroller. The comptroller estimates that Wall Street banks and smaller brokerages may cut some 10,000 jobs in New York City by the end of 2012. 
The weak economy, volatile markets, toxic mortgages and potential exposure to the euro zone are undeniably the biggest drags on banks' profits. But bankers, their lobbyists, and the politicians who do their bidding are eager to heap outsize blame on new national and international bank rules, including trading curbs, consumer protections and higher capital requirements.
New regulations, properly implemented and enforced, will crimp the banks' profitability. But that is not a sign they are defective -- just the opposite. It shows that the rules are beginning to work as intended to rein in destructive products and practices that inflated the bubble, led to the crash and necessitated the bailouts. Higher capital levels, for instance, mean a hit to bank profits. But they are a boon to the broader economy because they help to restrain speculation and to ensure that banks -- not taxpayers -- absorb unexpected losses.
Pain on Wall Street means pain for New York. Instead of New York politicians demanding a weakening of the financial rules, they should champion new ways for New York to broaden its tax base and its professional portfolio.
Mayor Michael Bloomberg's recent endorsement of higher taxes on private equity partners -- they pay tax at about the lowest rate in the tax code on much of their income -- is welcome. Mr. Bloomberg has also taken a big step in the right direction by promoting a New York-based high-tech center on Roosevelt Island, where Cornell University will develop its science graduate school. Other efforts, large and small, are also needed to capitalize on New York's advantages in fields like media, advertising, entertainment, health care and tourism.
The cultural shift is already under way. The Times's Kevin Roose reported recently that much of Wall Street's latest retrenchment has fallen on young bankers, causing them to lose both cash and cachet. In the past three years, the number of Wall Street employees between the ages of 20 and 34 fell by 25 percent compared with 11 percent for employees over age 55. ''The new status jobs aren't at Goldman,'' said a former Goldman Sachs analyst who left the sector this year. ''They're at Google, Apple and Facebook.''
Wall Street passe? Whether you agree or not, there is no disputing that developing more and different status jobs would be better for New York, and the rest of the country, than fighting financial reform.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); TAX LAW (74%); EURO ZONE (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); GOOGLE INC (52%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1131 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Declines To Say China Manipulates Its Currency

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The Obama administration on Tuesday declined to label China a currency manipulator after seeing recent increases in the value of the renminbi compared with the dollar. 
The decision angered some manufacturing groups, which have accused China of artificially holding down the value of its currency, the renminbi, to gain trade advantages. A cheaper renminbi makes Chinese goods less expensive when they are shipped to the United States. It also makes American goods more expensive in China. Both could increase America's trade deficit with China, which is on pace to reach a record high this year.
The Treasury Department said the renminbi had appreciated 12 percent against the dollar in the last 18 months, after adjusting for inflation. In addition, the department said in a semiannual report that China promised at two high-level meetings last month to make the renminbi's exchange rate more flexible.
Still, the Chinese currency is ''substantially undervalued'' and its appreciation ''is insufficient and more progress is needed,'' the report noted. The Treasury Department will ''press for policy changes that yield greater exchange rate flexibility'' and ''level the playing field.''
The currency report evaluates exchange rate policies of all major American trading partners. It was scheduled to be released on Oct. 15, but the administration delayed its release until after last month's meetings.
Mitt Romney, a former Massachusetts governor and a leading candidate for the Republican presidential nomination, has criticized the administration for refusing to cite China for manipulating its currency. Mr. Romney said in October that, if elected, he would take that step on his first day in office. That could lead to trade sanctions against China.
Scott N. Paul, executive director of the Alliance for American Manufacturing, also questioned the decision. ''I'm disappointed that President Obama has now formally refused six times to cite China for its currency manipulation, a practice which has contributed to the loss of hundreds of thousands of American manufacturing jobs,'' Mr. Paul said.
China has recently taken action that could result in the renminbi appreciating without prodding from the United States.
China and Japan agreed this week to accept the others' currency when trading. Currently, they each convert their currency to dollars. That has made trade between the two Asian economic giants more expensive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXCHANGE RATES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); MITT ROMNEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (96%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1132 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Obama Sees Need to Add $1.2 Trillion To Debt Cap

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama will ask Congress this week for $1.2 trillion in additional borrowing authority, which would raise the federal debt limit to $16.4 trillion and avoid the need for further increases before the 2012 elections, administration officials said Tuesday.
This would be the final increase allowed under the budget agreement reached in August after the government came close to default. Since signing legislation to codify that agreement on Aug. 2, Mr. Obama has obtained two increases totaling $900 billion. 
The budget agreement largely pre-empts the partisan debate over federal deficits and debt that the request might otherwise have touched off in Congress.
While the House, controlled by Republicans, could try to block the proposed increase in the debt limit, the Senate, with a Democratic majority, is unlikely to go along. If both houses of Congress voted to block the increase, Mr. Obama could veto the legislation.
The government's need for more borrowing results from the fact that it spends far more than it raises in revenue; it makes up the difference by borrowing 36 cents of every dollar it spends. In the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, the government spent $3.6 trillion and collected $2.3 trillion.
Despite record debt, the Treasury still finds that it can borrow at extraordinarily low interest rates, contrary to predictions by some Republican lawmakers, who had warned that soaring deficits would require the government to pay more to lenders and investors in Treasury debt.
In the last decade, the government has borrowed record sums to pay for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, tax cuts adopted under President George W. Bush and economic stimulus measures enacted in 2009 to address the worst economic slump since the 1930s.
Since President Obama took office, the debt has shot up 42 percent, to the current level of $15.1 trillion. Of that amount, $10.4 trillion is borrowed from the public, and $4.7 trillion consists of special-issue Treasury securities held by Social Security and other government trust funds. Debt held by the public, considered by many economists to be the more significant indicator, is 65 percent higher now than in January 2009.
Treasury officials said the debt often increased at the end of the year because of large interest payments that the government makes to Social Security and other trust funds. These payments will total $82 billion this month, the Treasury said. Money not immediately needed by the trust funds is invested in the special Treasury securities.
In September, the House voted to block Mr. Obama's request to raise the debt limit by $500 billion, the second increase. However, the Senate had already turned back a similar move.
Representative Tom Reed, a Republican from upstate New York, who led the House effort, said, ''Dealing with this national debt is one of the primary reasons why I ran for Congress -- to stop the endless borrowing of Washington, D.C., on the backs of our children and our grandchildren.'' He said the debt was a ''threat to national security.''
Four House Democrats have introduced a bill to eliminate the statutory cap on the public debt. ''There's no reason to have a debt ceiling at all,'' said one of the four, Representative Hank Johnson of Georgia. ''It doesn't restrain spending, since the spending has already been committed. It just threatens our credit, and it weakens our country.''
If the government got close to the debt limit again before the elections in November, a Treasury official said, ''we would be able to invoke extraordinary measures to extend borrowing authority beyond the elections.''
To avoid defaulting, the Treasury has sometimes delayed issuing certain types of debt held by federal trust funds and by state and local governments.
Under the new budget law, Mr. Obama could have requested a larger increase in the debt limit if Congress had agreed on a constitutional amendment to require balanced budgets or if deficit-reducing recommendations from a joint committee had become law. The amendment was not approved, and the committee could not agree on any proposals.
Online Correction: December 27, 2011, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A Web site summary with an earlier version of this article incorrectly listed the amount of the debt limit increase sought by President Obama. It is $1.2 trillion, not $1.2 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (91%); DEBT CEILING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (86%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); VETO (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TOM REED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1133 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: Iran Threatens To Choke Route of Oil Shipments

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A senior Iranian official on Tuesday delivered a sharp threat in response to economic sanctions being readied by the United States, saying his country would retaliate against any crackdown by blocking all oil shipments through the Strait of Hormuz, a vital artery for transporting about one-fifth of the world's oil supply.
The declaration by Iran's first vice president, Mohammad-Reza Rahimi, came as President Obama prepares to sign legislation that, if fully implemented, could substantially reduce Iran's oil revenue in a bid to deter it from pursuing a nuclear weapons program.
Prior to the latest move, the administration had been laying the groundwork to attempt to cut off Iran from global energy markets without raising the price of gasoline or alienating some of Washington's closest allies. 
Apparently fearful of the expanded sanctions' possible impact on the already-stressed economy of Iran, the world's third-largest energy exporter, Mr. Rahimi said, ''If they impose sanctions on Iran's oil exports, then even one drop of oil cannot flow from the Strait of Hormuz,'' according to Iran's official news agency. Iran just began a 10-day naval exercise in the area.
In recent interviews, Obama administration officials have said that the United States has developed a plan to keep the strait open in the event of a crisis. In Hawaii, where President Obama is vacationing, a White House spokesman said there would be no comment on the Iranian threat to close the strait. That seemed in keeping with what administration officials say has been an effort to lower the level of angry exchanges, partly to avoid giving the Iranian government the satisfaction of a response and partly to avoid spooking financial markets.
But the energy sanctions carry the risk of confrontation, as well as economic disruption, given the unpredictability of the Iranian response. Some administration officials believe that a plot to assassinate the Saudi ambassador to the United States -- which Washington alleges received funding from the Quds Force, part of the Iranian Revolutionary Guards Corps -- was in response to American and other international sanctions.
Merely uttering the threat appeared to be part of an Iranian effort to demonstrate its ability to cause a spike in oil prices, thus slowing the United States economy, and to warn American trading partners that joining the new sanctions, which the Senate passed by a rare 100-0 vote, would come at a high cost.
Oil prices rose above $100 a barrel in trading after the threat was issued, though it was unclear how much that could be attributed to investors' concern that confrontation in the Persian Gulf could disrupt oil flows.
The new punitive measures, part of a bill financing the military, would significantly escalate American sanctions against Iran. They come just a month and a half after the International Atomic Energy Agency published a report that for the first time laid out its evidence that Iran may be secretly working to design a nuclear warhead, despite the country's repeated denials.
In the wake of the I.A.E.A. report and a November attack on the British Embassy in Tehran, the European Union is also contemplating strict new sanctions, such as an embargo on Iranian oil.
For five years, the United States has implemented increasingly severe sanctions in an attempt to force Iran's leaders to reconsider the suspected nuclear weapons program, and answer a growing list of questions from the I.A.E.A. But it has deliberately stopped short of targeting oil exports, which finance as much as half of Iran's budget.
Now, with its hand forced by Congress, the administration is preparing to take that final step, penalizing foreign corporations that do business with Iran's central bank, which collects payment for most of the country's energy exports.
The sanction would effectively make it difficult for those who do business with Iran's central bank to also conduct financial transactions with the United States. The step was so severe that one of President Obama's top national security aides said two months ago that it was ''a last resort.'' The administration raced to put some loopholes in the final legislation so that it could reduce the impact on close allies who have signed on to pressuring Iran.
The legislation allows President Obama to waive sanctions if they cause the price of oil to rise or threaten national security.
Still, the new sanctions raise crucial economic, diplomatic, and security questions. Mr. Obama, his aides acknowledge, has no interest in seeing energy prices rise significantly at a moment of national economic weakness or as he intensifies his bid for re-election -- a vulnerability the Iranians fully understand. So the administration has to defy, or at least carefully calibrate, the laws of supply and demand, bringing to market new sources of oil to ensure that global prices do not rise sharply.
''I don't think anybody thinks we can contravene the laws of supply and demand any more than we can contravene the laws of gravity,'' said David S. Cohen, who, as treasury under secretary for terrorism and financial intelligence, oversees the administration of the sanctions. But, he said, ''We have flexibility here, and I think we have a pretty good opportunity to dial this in just the right way that it does end up putting significant pressure on Iran.''
The American effort, as described by Mr. Cohen and others, is more subtle than simply cutting off Iran's ability to export oil, a step that would immediately send the price of gasoline, heating fuel, and other petroleum products skyward. That would ''mean that Iran would, in fact, have more money to fuel its nuclear ambitions, not less,'' Wendy R. Sherman, the newly installed under secretary of state for political affairs, warned the Senate Foreign Relations Committee earlier this month.
Instead, the administration's aim is to reduce Iran's oil revenue by diminishing the volume of sales and forcing Iran to give its customers a discount on the price of crude.
Some economists question whether reducing Iran's oil exports without moving the price of oil is feasible, even if the market is given signals about alternative supplies. Already, analysts at investment banks are warning of the possibility of rising gasoline prices in 2012, due to the new sanctions by the United States as well as complementary sanctions under consideration by the European Union.
Since President Obama's first months in office, his aides have been talking to Saudi Arabia and other oil suppliers about increasing their production, and about guaranteeing sales to countries like China, which is among Iran's biggest customers. But it is unclear that the Saudis can fill in the gap left by Iran, even with the help of Libyan oil that is coming back on the market. The United States is also looking to countries like Iraq and Angola to increase production.
Daniel Yergin, whose new book, ''The Quest,'' describes the oil politics of dealing with states like Iran, noted in an interview that ''given the relative tightness of the market, it will require careful construction of the sanctions combined with vigorous efforts to bring alternative supplies into the market.'' He said that it would ''add a whole new dimension to the debate over the Keystone XL pipeline,'' the oil pipeline from Canada to the United States that the administration has sought to delay.
''The only strategy that is going to work here is one where you get the cooperation of oil buyers,'' said Michael Singh, managing director of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. ''You could imagine the Europeans, the Japanese, and the South Koreans cooperating, and then China would suck up all of the oil that was initially going to everyone else.''
A broader question is whether the sanctions -- even if successful at lowering Iran's oil revenue -- would force the government to give up its nuclear ambitions.
One measure of the effects, however, is that the Iranian leadership is clearly concerned. Already the Iranian currency is plummeting in value against the dollar, and there are rumors of bank runs.
''Iran's economic problems seem to be mounting and the whole economy is in a state of suspended expectation,'' said Abbas Milani, director of Iranian studies at Stanford University. ''The regime keeps repeating that they're not going to be impacted by the sanctions. That they have more money than they know what to do with. The lady doth protest too much.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); ASSASSINATION (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); GULF STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1134 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Republican Rivals Unleash Broadside on Paul in Iowa

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and MICHAEL D. SHEAR; Trip Gabriel contributed reporting from Dubuque, Iowa.

 BODY:
MASON CITY, Iowa -- The Republican presidential candidates sharpened their criticism of Representative Ron Paul on Tuesday in an effort to keep his support from growing among voters who are frustrated with government and may be inclined to send a message to the Washington establishment by supporting him in the Iowa caucuses.
Newt Gingrich said Mr. Paul, of Texas, was a ''protest'' candidate, and that he could not vote for the congressman if he won the party's nomination. In a television interview, Mr. Gingrich, the former House speaker, declared that Mr. Paul's ''views are totally outside the mainstream of virtually every decent American.''
Rick Santorum warned conservative voters to carefully study Mr. Paul's record, telling a crowd here: ''Think about having a guy running for president who is going to be on the left of Barack Obama on national security.'' 
A week before the Iowa caucuses open the Republican nominating contest, the candidates are in a final push to win over undecided voters. With Mr. Paul facing attacks, an army of his supporters began arriving to bolster an aggressive ground operation and persuade voters across Iowa to attend the Jan. 3 caucuses.
But as Mitt Romney returned to the state on Tuesday night, he looked beyond his Republican rivals and set his sights on President Obama, declaring: ''You have had your moment. We have seen the results. And now, Mr. President, it is our time.''
The fluid race lured Mr. Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, back for a full-throated effort to win the state, including a last-minute decision to spend New Year's Eve here. He had made a quick weekend visit to New Hampshire, where the primary is Jan. 10.
A Republican race that was slow to start has roared to life. The outcome of the Iowa caucuses may not directly determine the nominee, but the results are likely to narrow the field. In the final days of campaigning here, two contests are under way in Iowa: A race to win and, for some, a race to keep from losing badly.
Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota and Mr. Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator, are trying to consolidate the support of social conservatives who have yet to unite behind a single candidate. They each made appeals on Tuesday, with Mrs. Bachmann accusing her rivals of being ''confused'' about abortion and same-sex marriage.
''Mitt Romney has defended gay marriage and even signed marriage licenses for same-sex couples, and Ron Paul doesn't believe the government should protect the institution of marriage,'' Mrs. Bachmann said during a stop in Council Bluffs. ''I have a record of defending life, marriage and the family, and I'll protect them as president of the United States.''
As she raced to complete her goal of visiting all 99 Iowa counties, she frequently mentioned her rivals. Yet they all but ignored her, a sign of what many Republicans here see as her fading fortunes after winning the Iowa straw poll this summer.
Mr. Perry is also focused on making his case to religious voters for whom social issues are paramount. The slogan on his campaign bus now says, ''Faith, Jobs, Freedom,'' a change from several months ago when his message was, ''Get America Working Again.''
At stops in Council Bluffs and Clarinda, Mr. Perry continued to present himself as an outsider who would shake up Washington with his call for a part-time Congress. But his speeches also included quotes from the Bible and promises to protect ''innocent life.''
''When the Lord asked the prophet Isaiah, he said, 'Whom shall I send and who will go for us?' Isaiah said, 'Here am I, send me,''' Mr. Perry said in Council Bluffs. ''This is your country. Taking her back is your calling. Join me in this mission.''
Mr. Perry also announced that he had changed his mind on whether abortions should be allowed in cases of rape and incest and if the mother's life is in danger. A month ago he agreed to those exceptions. But, he explained to a crowd in Osceola, he had watched a video on the issue recently and now believed that abortion should be outlawed entirely.
As Mr. Perry and Mrs. Bachmann try to gain ground among evangelicals, they are hoping to follow in the path of Mike Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas, who was the Republican winner of the Iowa caucuses in 2008 after making a late appeal to religious conservatives.
While Mr. Santorum sought to reassure voters at a stop here in Mason City that ''no one is more pro-life than me,'' he said that his candidacy was far broader. He asked voters to think for themselves and not buy into the Republican argument that only a few of the party's candidates could defeat Mr. Obama.
''Trust your own judgment,'' he said. ''Don't defer to people who don't know the candidates as well as you do.''
Mr. Santorum, addressing a crowd of more than 120 people at the Historic Park Inn, focused his criticism on Mr. Paul. The crowd steadily grew during his lunchtime appearance, and he stayed around for nearly two hours to answer questions. Not long ago, many of his audiences were only a fraction of that size.
''The things that most Iowans like about Ron Paul -- his economic ideas -- are the things he's least likely to be able to accomplish,'' Mr. Santorum said, adding, ''He's been in Congress for 20 years and hasn't passed a bill.''
But he warned that there would be no check and balance on Mr. Paul's role as commander in chief. He raised his voice and urged Republicans to carefully study Mr. Paul's isolationist foreign policy views.
''One thing he can do as commander in chief is he can pull all our troops home,'' Mr. Santorum said. ''He can shut down our bases in Germany. He can shut down the bases in Japan. He can pull our fleets back. You think the rest of the world is going to say, 'Oh, that's great?' ''
Mr. Paul, who is to arrive in Iowa on Wednesday, was also on Mr. Gingrich's mind. He is trying to rebuild some of the support that has slipped away in the wake of a blistering negative advertising campaign by Mr. Paul and Mr. Romney and their allies.
As Mr. Gingrich campaigned across eastern Iowa, he told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on Tuesday that he could not support Mr. Paul if he won the Republican nomination: ''I think the choice of Ron Paul or Barack Obama would be a very bad choice for America.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michele Bachmann, in Iowa on Tuesday, hopes to follow Mike Huckabee's path to victory there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); MARRIAGE (88%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (83%); GOVERNORS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (63%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (63%); ABORTION (60%)

PERSON: RON PAUL (92%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); MICHELE BACHMANN (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%); RICK PERRY (58%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (98%); TEXAS, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1135 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: 2 Selected As Nominees To the Fed

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama said Tuesday that he would nominate Jeremy C. Stein, a Harvard economist, and Jerome H. Powell, a former private equity executive, to fill the two vacant seats on the Federal Reserve's board.
The pairing of Professor Stein, a Democrat, and Mr. Powell, a Republican, is a carefully weighted gesture, a pragmatic attempt to satisfy Senate Republicans who have repeatedly refused to allow votes on nominees for regulatory positions.
Not since 1988 has a president sought to add a member of the opposition party to the Fed's board, but the White House judged that its decision was the only practical alternative to leaving the positions unfilled for at least another year. 
In announcing his choices, Mr. Obama lauded both men for ''impressive knowledge of economic and monetary policy,'' and described them as ''tremendously qualified.''
The office of Senator Tim Johnson, the South Dakota Democrat and chairman of the Banking Committee, said he would try to schedule a hearing as soon as the Senate returned from its winter vacation in late January. ''With the fragile state of U.S. economy and a looming European debt crisis, Chairman Johnson believes it is imperative that our financial regulators operate at full strength,'' the statement from his office said.
The office of the ranking Republican on the committee, Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama, did not respond to a request for comment. Mr. Shelby was briefed on the selections, but has not committed to supporting the choices, according to a person familiar with the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity.
Professor Stein and Mr. Powell both are experts in the workings of financial markets, an important specialty as the Fed expands its regulatory responsibilities. The five current members of the board are primarily experts in other areas.
Professor Stein, 51, joined the Harvard faculty in 2000 after a decade at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he earned a doctorate in 1983. His experience is largely as a student of policy, although he worked for five months in early 2009 as an adviser to the Obama administration and the Treasury Department. He also served briefly on the staff of the Council of Economic Advisers in 1989 and 1990 under President George H. W. Bush.
His work has generally placed him in opposition to the view that prevailed at the Fed under its former chairman, Alan Greenspan, who argued that markets were largely self-regulating and that the government tended to do more harm than good.
He has advocated for stricter regulation of financial companies, including higher capital requirements for large financial institutions, which would constrain their ability to finance operations with borrowed money. He has rejected the argument made by banks that such an increase would reduce lending, describing the cost in one article as ''too small to have a big impact on growth.''
He also has argued for strengthened federal regulation of ''shadow banks'' like private equity funds and mutual funds that function like banks but are not subject to the same rules or oversight. ''Commercial banks and shadow banks should be regulated in a symmetric fashion,'' he wrote in a 2010 paper.
Mr. Powell, 58, a visiting scholar at the Bipartisan Policy Center, worked for nearly a decade as a partner at the Carlyle Group, a private equity firm. He also served as Treasury under secretary for finance under President George H. W. Bush.
He would effectively serve as a replacement on the board for Kevin Warsh, the last governor with substantial experience working in the financial markets, who resigned this year. The Fed cultivates close ties with Wall Street firms to improve its understanding of the financial and economic issues.
Mr. Powell described himself in a recent interview with Bloomberg Television as, ''by any fair reckoning a fiscal conservative,'' but he is known for taking independent positions on policy issues. He argued publicly earlier this year that the debt ceiling should be raised, warning Republicans against failing to do so.
Even if confirmed, the men are not expected to change the course of the Fed's monetary policy, according to independent analysts. Neither man has expressed strong views about the Fed's efforts to improve the economy. Moreover, members of the board of governors rarely break ranks with the Fed's chairman.
Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting firm that follows the Fed closely, said in a note to clients that the men would bring valuable expertise to the table, but that the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, would continue to determine how far the central bank intended to push its efforts to spur economic growth.
''The F.O.M.C. would gain two outstanding people,'' the note said, referring to the Federal Open Market Committee. But ''the chairman is and will continue to be the dominant force on the committee.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jeremy C. Stein is a professor of economics at Harvard. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARVARD UNIVERSITY)
 Jerome H. Powell is a former Treasury under secretary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CSPAN) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); DEBT CRISIS (68%); EURO CRISIS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RICHARD SHELBY (76%); TIM JOHNSON (71%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1136 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: In Drilling Safety Debate, Hydrofracking's Not the Only Target

BYLINE: MIREYA NAVARRO


HIGHLIGHT: A lawsuit centers on conventional drilling in Chemung County, where residents sued over operations at two natural gas wells that they say contaminated their drinking water. 

 BODY:
In the heated debate over fracking in New York, it is often forgotten that conventional natural gas drilling has been taking place in the state for decades.
Chemung County, a place I write about in Wednesday's Times, has been a leader in gas production in the state and is now poised to become a leader in exploration of the Marcellus Shale. Drilling awaits the approval of new state rules governing horizontal drilling combined with high-volume hydraulic fracturing, or fracking - a controversial process because it uses large amounts of water, more than one million gallons per well -- and could pose new risks of groundwater contamination. 
But conventional vertical and horizontal drilling has its safety issues as well. In Chemung County, where gas companies have been drilling in the Trenton Black River rock formation, a group of 15 residents filed a lawsuit last winter against Anschutz Exploration, a company based in Colorado, over drilling operations at two gas wells that they claim contaminated their drinking water.
The law firm shepherding that suit, filed in State Supreme Court in Elmira, N.Y., is Napoli Bern Ripka, which recently won a settlement of nearly $700 million with the City of New York and its contractors on behalf of more than 10,000 workers saying that they developed respiratory illnesses as a result of their rescue and recovery work at ground zero after 9/11. One of the lawyers, Marc J. Bern, said that the firm has cases pending over natural gas drilling operations in Pennsylvania, Colorado, West Virginia and now New York.

Mr. Bern said he doesn't take sides in the debate over whether hydrofracking should be allowed -- he just argues that "it can be done in a much better way."
"The industry itself believes that things can be done safer, but they want to do it in the most expeditious and cheapest way and deal with the environmental costs and the contamination later," he said.
Industry representatives dispute that notion. "That's why we have standards and recommended practices on drilling and water management," said John Felmy, chief economist for the American Petroleum Institute, which represents represents more than 400 oil and natural gas companies. "We as an industry are committed to doing this right."
Officials with the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation investigated the Chemung residents' complaints last year but found that the drilling was unlikely to have caused methane to seep into potable water wells.
 "Methane commonly occurs in residential water wells since it is often present in bedrock at shallow depths," a fact sheet on the case from the department says. "The way the gas wells were constructed makes it unlikely that gas from deeper formations could migrate through multiple cemented casing strings into any aquifers near the surface."

        
Imagining a Blur of Fracking Activity
        
Governor Bans New Gas Wells on State Land
        
Wanted: Frack Busters (Costume Preferred)
        
Natural Gas: It's Not Easy Being Green
        
Industry Boos Oscar Nod for 'Gasland'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (94%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (92%); LITIGATION (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); WATER QUALITY (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); METHANE (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (76%); LAWYERS (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); APPROVALS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (69%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (63%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (53%) Chemung County; fracking; groundwater; Hydraulic Fracturing; Methane; natural gas drilling; New York State Department of Environmental Conservation; Water Pollution; Drilling and Boring; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Suits and Litigation; Wells; American Petroleum Institute; Department of Environmental Conservation; Marcellus Shale; New York State; Conventional Energy; Politics and Policy; Toxic Pollution; water quality

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (84%) American Petroleum Institute; Department of Environmental Conservation

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); COLORADO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Marcellus Shale; New York State

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1137 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: The Problem

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: All saved up with nowhere to go. 

 BODY:
Richard Koo has another paper on balance sheet recession out (pdf), with good charts for a number of countries. I still have some differences with him over monetary policy -- I still don't understand why he doesn't see debt-eroding inflation as something helpful in dealing with debt overhang -- but his view of the sources of our Lesser Depression is completely right.
Let me just focus on the United States. Here's gross private saving minus gross private investment -- the private-sector financial surplus:
This huge move into surplus reflects the end of the housing bubble, a sharp rise in household saving, and a slump in business investment due to lack of customers.
Given this reality, it's not hard to see why massive government borrowing hasn't led to soaring interest rates; we're awash in saving with no place to go. And that's also why we're in a liquidity trap, in which large increases in the monetary base don't lead to inflation.
And the question is, how do people who want us to slash the budget deficit now now now think this is going to work? Unless the confidence fairy arrives, causing households and businesses to suddenly ramp up their savingspending despite high unemployment and weak sales, deficit reduction will only intensify the problem of excessive savings relative to perceived investment opportunities -- and make the slump much, much worse.
I know, I know -- families are having to tighten their belts, so the government should tighten its belt too; and we'll tighten our belt all the way to a full-on depression.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); FAMILY (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); HOUSING BUBBLE (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); INTEREST RATES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1138 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: What Moves Republican Crowds in Iowa

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Spending a day watching to how the crowds react can be just as instructive as listening to the candidates themselves. 

 BODY:
DES MOINES - The Republican candidates for president are doing a lot of talking in the last week before voting begins.
But spending a day observing how the crowds react to the candidates can be just as instructive.
On Tuesday, Rick Perry held four events, starting in Council Bluffs and ending up in Osceola, about an hour south of Des Moines. Mr. Perry talked about being an outsider, taking the fight to President Obama and making the Congress a part-time legislature.
But the audiences in all four places were remarkably similar when it came to what parts of Mr. Perry's speech moved them to applause, sometimes even hooting and hollering their approval when Mr. Perry touched on issues they care about.
Some of the applause was clearly for Mr. Perry, whose stump speech includes some well-delivered lines that are designed to get a reaction. But some of those lines fell flat on Tuesday, while the audience - not necessarily filled with supporters of Mr. Perry - sometimes applauded when the candidate least expected it.
Here are the main subjects that met with approval from the several hundred Iowa voters who gathered to hear Mr. Perry across the state on Tuesday. The reactions provide a rough sense of the kinds of things that Iowa voters may be thinking about when they arrive at their caucus location next week.
Israel: At every stop, Mr. Perry took a roundabout shot at Ron Paul for saying during a debate that he was not that concerned about the prospect of Iran getting a nuclear weapon.
"You don't have to vote for a candidate who would allow Iran to wipe Israel off the face of the Earth and ultimately America," Mr. Perry said in Council Bluffs. At every stop, the comment drew loud applause.
The issue of Israel's security has always been a big one for Republicans. But the intensity of the reaction to Mr. Perry's comment suggests that Iowa voters may now be more keenly aware of the situation in that country, and more willing to make it part of their calculation on voting day.
The Size of Government: No big surprise: the Republican audiences around Iowa appear to want a smaller, more efficient federal government. But the reaction from the crowd to Mr. Perry's view on the subject was revealing.
"I believe that the federal government should do a few things, do those few things real well, and get out of the way and leave Americans alone," Mr. Perry said at one stop on Tuesday. The crowd reacted before he could finish with loud applause and shouts of "yeah!"
A few minutes later, Mr. Perry said his purpose in the race is "to make Washington D.C. as inconsequential in your life as i can make it." And in Clarinda later in the afternoon, Mr. Perry repeated his desire to have "a part time Congress," saying, "Cut their pay in half, cut their time in half, cut their staff in half."
The promises drew loud applause from all of Mr. Perry's crowds, suggesting that they agree with his assessment about the size and scope of government, even if they are not necessarily supporting his candidacy.
Immigration: The issue of immigration became an intense subject among Iowans in 2008, when Senator John McCain initially backed a comprehensive immigration reform bill that was despised by rank-and-file conservatives in Iowa and across the country.
That intensity seems not to have died out. At each of Mr. Perry's stops the audiences roared their approval at the candidate's pledge to shut the border down if he is elected president.
"There is no such thing as homeland security until there is border security," Mr. Perry said to a round of applause in Council Bluffs. "We will secure that border, we will shut it down within one year of my inauguration."
He repeated the promise - and got a similarly enthusiastic response - in Creston. "Within a year of taking my hand off the Bible, you can bet on one thing, that border will be shut down and it will be secured," he said.
Abortion: Mr. Perry did not focus much on social issues in his stump speeches, preferring to cast himself instead as the ultimate Washington outsider (a line that got treated with stone silence at all of the events on Tuesday). But the crowds were not silent when he mentioned the subject of abortion.
"I am a social conservative who has defended traditional marriage and protected the unborn children, including signing a budget that defunded Planned Parenthood, and they closed down 12 of their abortion clinics," Mr. Perry said in Osceola.
The enthusiastic response to Mr. Perry's discussion of the abortion topic provides a bit of anecdotal evidence for the presumption that social and religious conservatives may make a strong showing at the caucuses.
Energy: The audiences at Mr. Perry's events seemed somewhat unmoved by parts of his speech that talked about job creation. But when it came to energy and oil, they perked up.
"Every barrel of oil that comes out of those sands in Canada is a barrel of oil that we don't have to buy from a foreign source," Mr. Perry said in Clarinda, earning a loud round of enthusiastic applause.
Later, the audience reacted again to Mr. Perry's assertion that buying so much energy from foreign countries is "not good policy, it's not good politics and frankly it['s un-American."
Balanced Budget: Iowa voters are hearing a lot about the economy from the Republican candidates, and a lot of it sounds similar. But at Mr. Perry's events, they seemed to really appreciate his promise to push for a balanced budget amendment.
"I will travel all across this country, if that's what's required, to be the head yell-leader on this issue," Mr. Perry said in Osceola. "I'll go all across this country promoting passing a balanced budget amendment to the constitution."
The issue got plenty of applause from the audience.

        
In Iowa, the Campaign Begins. Really.
        
Cain's Iowa Supporters Wait and See
        
Christie's Decision Leaves Republicans With Stark Choice
        
Who Wins and Who Loses if Bachmann Runs in 2012?
        
What if Perry Skips the Debates?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); CAUCUSES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) 2012; CONSERVATIVES; Iowa; Iowa Caucus; primaries; Republicans; Rick Perry; In Iowa

PERSON: RICK PERRY (92%); RON PAUL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (94%) IOWA, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1139 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Debt Is (Mostly) Money We Owe To Ourselves

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: And anyone saying otherwise doesn't get it. 

 BODY:
I want to expand a bit on something Dean Baker said yesterday:
As a country we cannot impose huge debt burdens on our children. It is , at least if we are referring to government debt. The reason is simple, at one point we will all be dead. That means that the ownership of our debt will be passed on to our children. If we have some huge thousand trillion dollar debt that is owed to our children, then how have we imposed a burden on them? There is a distributional issue -- Bill Gates children may own all the debt -- but that is within generations, not between generations. As a group, our children's well-being will be determined by the productivity of the economy (which Brooks complained about earlier), the state of the physical and social infrastructure and the environment.
One can make the point that much of the debt is owned by foreigners, but this is a result of our trade deficit, which is in turn caused by the over-valued dollar.
I think it's worth looking at some numbers here. 
Below are two series, both expressed as percentages of GDP: total domestic nonfinancial debt (public plus private), and US net foreign debt, as measured by the negative of the net international investment position:
What you can see here is that there has been a big rise in debt, with a much smaller move into net debtor status for America as a whole; for the most part, the extra debt is money we owe to ourselves.
And here are the same numbers, measured as changes from 1980, so that you can see that the great bulk of the rise in debt was NOT financed by foreign borrowing.
People think of debt's role in the economy as if it were the same as what debt means for an individual: there's a lot of money you have to pay to someone else. But that's all wrong; the debt we create is basically money we owe to ourselves, and the burden it imposes does not involve a real transfer of resources.
That's not to say that high debt can't cause problems -- it certainly can. But these are problems of distribution and incentives, not the burden of debt as is commonly understood. And as Dean says, talking about leaving a burden to our children is especially nonsensical; what we are leaving behind is promises that some of our children will pay money to other children, which is a very different kettle of fish.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1140 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: Wednesday Reading: Life Expectancy for New Yorkers Reaches All-Time High

BYLINE: NADIA TAHA


HIGHLIGHT: Online shoppers drink and buy, artificial hips fail at a cost to the public, bankrupt restaurant chains keep locations open and others consumer-focused news from The New York Times. 

 BODY:

        
Hydrofracking sites bolster the economy nearby. (New York)
        
New Yorkers have life expectancy two years above national average. (City Room)
        
Latest housing report shows no sign of relief. (Business Day)
        
Oil riches transform a tiny community in North Dakota. (National)
        
President Obama is expected to ask for $1.2 trillion debt limit increase. (Politics)
        
'Zombie restaurants' are kept open by bankrupt dining chains. (Business Day)
        
Widespread failure of artificial hips will cost billions. (Business Day)
        
South Florida considers Vegas-style casinos. (Real Estate)
        
Online retailers home in on customers who shop under the influence. (Business Day)
        
Rich Brazilian tourists spend freely in Miami. (National)
        
Retailer are accused of selling former rental cars without telling buyers. (Wheels)
        
Treatments for M.S. offer patients new hope. (Well)

        
Cash Mobs Promote Spending (and Socializing) Locally
        
Holiday Shipping Dates, Free and Otherwise
        
Many Consumers Plan to Spend Less This Holiday Season
        
Early Holiday Spending Comes Despite Tight Consumer Budgets
        
A New Web Portal Doubles a Product's Warranty

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET RETAILING (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (79%); BUDGETS (78%); DEBT CEILING (76%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (74%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (74%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (74%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (66%) Shopping; E-Commerce; Today in Your Money

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (54%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1141 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(In Transit)

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 2533 words

HEADLINE: Ask a Railroad Station Expert

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: As part of this week's Q&#038;A, David Naylor, an architectural historian and author of "Railroad Stations: The Buildings That Linked the Nation" (Norton), took readers' questions on railroad stations. 

 BODY:
As part of this week's Q&A, David Naylor, an architectural historian and author of "Railroad Stations: The Buildings That Linked the Nation" (Norton), took readers' questions on railroad stations. He is no longer taking questions.
Q.
 I wonder if Mr. Naylor can tell us anything about the train station in New London, CT? Mary Leggett Browning, Miami Beach, Fla.
A.
 To M.L. Browning. The New London Railroad Station has a notably scenic position along the edge of the town waterfront. The architect was H.H. Richardson, and ths was his largest station design in New England, as well as his last (the station opened in 1887, a year after Richardson's death). The building has the distinction of being one of the first great station buildings to be restored, with work done in advance of the American Bicentennial in 1976.
Q.
 Will Amtrak ever serve Grand Central Terminal again. or is it gone for good? One of my fondest memories is arriving in Grand Central aboard the Lake Shore Limited as a boy in the late 1970's. -- Mark L., Milwaukee, Wis.
A.
 To Mark L.: Through trains into Manhattan can only go where the tracks allow, so at present that means just Penn Station. An expanded role for Grand Central will have to wait until a post-Amtrak world. 
Q.
 Why do lots of train stations have very high ceilings? When were the murals painted in Salt lake City's Train Station. -- Sam Dodd, Denver
A.
 To Sam Dodd: My best bet for finding detailed information about major station architecture is to go to the Library of Congress website (loc.gov) to the Prints & Photograhs Division, and look for "Data Pages" embedded in a HABS (Historic American Building Survey) report if there is one available. Lots to learn.
Q.
 Mr. Naylor, Loved the article and the reason for it! Portland, Oregon has a Union Station (Van Brunt & Howe) that might be among the beauties that you recognize. Perhaps you have---I have yet to get to your book. Portland has a new Rail Heritage Center being erected that will house three historic steam locomotives...the SP4449 pulled the Bi-centennial Freedom Train around the U.S., the SP&S 700 Empire Builder, and the Oregon Rail & Navigation 197 (1905----being restored). History of the rail as it helped settle this region will be the focal point. It will be visitor-friendly...open in mid-April---please visit. You can check us out: www.orhf.org.
Now to find your book! -- Bill Failing, Portland, Ore. 
A.
 To Bill Falling: Since I was lucky enough to live in Washington State for a number of years, I too know and love the station in Portland, as well as those in Seattle. Sadly there were only a few images of stations in the Northwest available for use in the book--at least the beauty in Tacoma could be shown. Also I thank you for reminding us all how progressive rail travel has become again in the Northwest.
Q.
 We have a total of one week for our first train adventure. Would you recommend a Vancouver to Calgary trip? If so, is there a train you recommend? If not, what ride would you suggest? We would begin the trip from Burlington, Vt. and would fly to the train ride start. Thank you. -- Sara Gold, Palmetto, Fla.
A.
 To Sara Gould. If this is to be your first rail adventure, you are certainly starting with one of the best! I have always wanted to ride that very same stretch of rail, but have not...yet. Driven it, yes, so the one bit of advice I can give is to spend some time in Vancouver before you depart, and maybe break the trip in Banff/Lake Louise if you can.
Q.
 With most passenger rail traffic gone from the nations mentality, we think of travel as merely getting form one place to another with the least discomfort. The glass box airline terminal is a case in point. Efficient but graceless and no place you'd linger in Train stations had individual styles and great services reflecting the cities they served not corporate connections. People now want to go cheap and don't mind traveling like livestock. MOOO! -- John Vorhes, Bethesda, Md.
A.
 To John Vorhees. So is the question do we reinvent the railroad station or will we need to invent a new mode of travel instead.
Q.
 Dear Mr. Naylor: I Enjoyed the Q&A in the travel section. This year I did some work in Boise ID I spent a little time in the RR depot marveling at the station exterior. Other than with interesting books like the one you wrote, can you suggest other ways to raise the public awareness to the train travel? As you pointed out, traveling by train is like reading a book or watching a movie, only real. Most people don't know that any more. -- Cesar Vergara, Ridgefiled Conn.
Mr. Naylor, Thank you for mentioning the beautiful depot at Boise, Idaho, as one that is worth a visit. Unfortunately, it is inaccessible by train since the Northwest's third-largest city has not had passenger rail service since 1997. At a time when even California is scaling back its rail-building plans, how can American politicians and entrepreneurs best be convinced to re-invest in our nation's passenger rail system? - Writethechange, Boise, Idaho
Thank you for your book. My question speaks more to the attiitude toward trains in the United States? Why is there so much hostility toward train travel from so many elected officials in congress? It' s no secret that our railroad infrastructure is the laughing stock of many other countries; why this lack of pride in what was once a beautiful system of travel, and why does AMTRAK continue to be a political football, when it could be the lynchpin for better rail service? -- Richard Steele, Los Angeles
A.
 To Cesar Vergara, Writethechange, and Richard Steele: Last word I had was that the depot in Boise was open, but only for special occasions. The best book I have read on the current status of train travel is James McCommon's "Waiting on a Train: The Embattled Future of Passenger Rail Service."
Q.
 How many of the presently active AMTRAK stations still offer these full amenities: barbershop, restaurant, and ticket agent. I know the Utica (NY) Union Station does, but what about others? -- Rev Dr Randolph Becker, Key West, Conch Republic
A.
 To Rev Dr Randolph Becker: Most but not all stations have a human ticket seller, while many still include a restaurant, or at least some kind of fast food. The barbershop may make Utica unique!
Q.
 Are there any plans for the redevelopment/restoration of Michigan Station in Detroit? It's an architectural gem, and not far from downtown. - Liam, Lisbon
A.
 To Liam: Unknown to me.
Q.
 A couple of clarifications:
1. Santiago Calatrava designed the station at Lyon-Satolas, the airport, not the main railway station in the center, called Lyon Part-Dieu.
2. Also, he did not design the main station at Zurich, the Hauptbahnhof, but rather parts of the station at Zurich Stadelhoften, two kilometers south of Zurich HB, via the S3 suburban train or a pleasant walk along the Limmat River. Thanks! -- Robert Britton, Allen, Texas
A.
 To Robert Britton: My thanks to you for the clarifications. The fault lies with me, as the column had limited space and I was not sufficiently concise. A felicitous note: the Lyon-Satolas station has been renamed Gare de Sainte-Exupery, along with the adjacent airport. 
Q.
 Is it true the original Daniel Burnham design for the Washington D.C. Union Station was twice as large as it is today? -- Owen Crabb, Baltimore, Md.
A.
 To Owen Crabb: An old friend and grad-school classmate, Kristen Schaffer, wrote the book on Daniel Burnham. I will ask her next time our tracks cross.
Q.
 My wife knows I love to ride passenger trains and wants to plan a trip that incorporates scenery, unique architecture, comfort, and a good value for the money. We've discussed various VIA Canada routes, the Amtrak Empire Builder, Denali Alaska, and Northern Spain (which is probably out of our price range). I've been on the California Zephyr (of which the Davis Train Station is interesting), Coast Starlight, the Hudson Bay (to Churchill), and Canadian (only between Edmonton and Vancouver) Trains before. Any Suggestions? -- Eric Brink, Albany, CA
A.
 To Eric Brink: You seem to have already covered a bit of ground. If money were no object, the train trip I would choose would be from Cuzco up to Machu Pichu. An easier choice financially might be a train excursion to West Virginia, possibly to include the Greenbriar Resort in White Sulphur Springs. (Unseen by me, but the mountains are certainly something to see.)
Q.
 David, There never was a train station in Palm Springs CA. Southern Pacific tracks by-passed the city to the north. The picture (9-065) in your book is of the El Mirador Hotel in Palm Springs; now the Desert Regional Medical Center. The SP station that served Palm Springs was out in the desert at a place called Whitewater. The station is still there but is now a lumber yard. The other station to serve the Coachella Valley was in Indio. It's a shame that so many of the West Coast train stations were not included. -- C.Carlo, Chicago
A.
 To C. Carlo. My thanks to you for letting me know that the photograph of the building in Palm Springs is misidentified. I will pass this news along to the folks at the Library of Congress (and check out the former El Mirador next time I am in Palm Springs). Also, I agree with you that it is a shame so few West Coast stations could be included--I was limited to images in the Library collection, and so no Portland, Oregon, no Seattle, Washington, and no exteriors of the equally wonderful Los Angeles Union Station.
Q.
 Union Station Chicago with the steps used in The Untouchables to emulate those in leningrad. -- R. Marz, Bath, Mich.
A.
 To: R. Marz: I did try to sneak a fair number of movie references into the book. As for what you are referring to here specifically, a classic movie scene, set in a truly classic station.
Q.
 In Washington, DC F ST NE is extra wide but I can't find any indication of a former trolley line on that street. Can you lead me to information on former trolley locations? -- Lisa Stuart, Washington, DC
A.
 To Lisa Stuart. Sadly very little trolley information passed before me. You may be chasing ghosts, but I wish you luck.
Q.
 The Stockbridge station still lives, and looks remarkably similar...
Great pictures, thanks. -- Hank Gold, Lanesboro, MA
A.
 To Hank Gold: The station, like so many buildings in Stockbridge, is a small masterwork. Berkshire residents are very fortunate to still have so many still around.
Q.
 Does your remit cover more than the US? I'd like to know something about the station in McAdam, New Brunswick. -- Deborah Dempsey, Philadelphia
A.
 To: Deborah Dempsey. My task involved U.S. stations only. More needs to be done to record the stations in Canada.
Q.
 We know a lot of the success stories of preservation of the great train stations - What are two or three that are still in danger of being lost?
How much do you think the long newspaper strike helped the people who wanted to tear down the old Pennysylvania Station. Were important voices silenced during that period or were most of the papers supporting of the "urban renewal." -- Gary Warner, Los Angeles
A.
 To Gary Warner: For the time of which you write, I was reading, but mostly picture books. I wish I knew more. I'm not sure the story has been adequately told, beyond newspaper reports. Shuttered stations from Seattle to San Juan, not so much in danger of being torn down as simply neglected, or re-used in unsympathetic ways. The larger answer is that few stations are entirely safe when the future of rail travel is so uncertain.
Q.
 Mr. Naylor, I have oved train travel in the U.S. since I was a child in the 1950's and grew up arriving and departing in Chicago's Union Station. Now, I travel occasionally oversees and have taken trains in Europe, Japan and China. In Europe and Japan some of the train stations have added numerous amenities that result in the stations resembling the nicest airports in the world. Often, they have preserved and updated the old structures and added restaurants, shops, etc. Such train stations appear to be important hubs of the cities they occupy, often combining other modes of transit (bus, trolley, underground, etc.). Do you see anything like that happening in the U.S.? -- Roger, Portland, Ore.
A.
 To Roger. I see more of a mixed bag in the U.S. than elsewhere. Some great stations like St. Louis Union and Indianapolis Union were converted for hotel use, but lost their trains. Cincinnati Union Terminal is still glorious but hardly has proper train service. On the other hand, Grand Central and D.C. Union Station have thrived, at least after a few misguided revisions along the way.
Q.
 Mr. Naylor, I've often wondered what design guidelines come into play that influenced why Grand Stations in some cities were of stub-end design (St. Louis, Chicago among others) - which forced inbound trains to back into the terminal - vs. a more efficient through-train layout (Scranton, Cincinnati, et al.) that minimizes extraneous train movements in both directions. Was it simply a function of available building space, pre-existing rail routing, or the preference of the individual railroads / architects, or might local building codes dictate one design over another? All things being equal, would you expect a through-train design to be the preferred choice where practicable? - Jim, Binghamton, N.Y.
A.
 To Jim. A good, complex question, calling for a Master's Thesis at the very least. All the factors you mentioned would likely come into play, along with local zoning laws and real estate competition. The matter of through trains no easier; seems to be the preferred choice but then so many gateway stations, like L.A. Union are stub-end.
Q.
Which large city stations, currently in existence, are most at risk for demolition? Which large city stations have the best potential for redevelopment in a meaningful way? Buffalo, for instance, is a great station, but its location seems to preclude such development. - Gregg, Syracuse, N.Y.
A.
 To Gregg: At this point I hear little of either demolition or reclamation. A great deal of discussion about the revival of rail travel overall, but until the economy revives...
Q.
The photos are of a the grand age of great railroads, supported often by grand architecture and interior decor. One great station omitted from the selection is Philadelphia which has a wonderful facade and a magnificent interior
Why is it that we seemed to have lost the art (or perhaps the desire) for great building designs for airports, the modern edifice for transportation hubs. So many modern airports are faceless boring buildings which are often too small for todays crowds except in shopping spaces which have edged out seating areas for weary travellers. -- Bob Guy, Bali Indonesia
A.
 To: Bob Guy. There are several Philadelphia stations included in the book, with Broad Street, the B & O, and the Reading Terminal. in addition to the 30th Street Station (pictured, inside and out on page 102). As for your question about diminished artistry, perhaps this is a time of dormancy for architectural embellishment of this sort, but that artistry just comes out in different
ways.

        
Ask a Railroad Station Expert
        
Trans-Siberian Railway Views, a Click Away

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (98%); HISTORY (90%); WRITERS (89%); TRAINS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (78%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (77%); LAKES (76%); PAINTING (73%); LIBRARIES (72%) David Naylor; Railroads; Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (90%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (77%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%) OREGON, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1142 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
Wine Economist: Tracking the holiday sales: Champagne, of course, but Oregon pinot noir and German riesling? Apparently. ...
Zester Daily: ... And just in case you need some coaching on how to enjoy Champagne, Patrick Comiskey is ready with sage advice. -- Eric Asimov 
Travel and Leisure: "We fell hardest for locro, a hominy-and-pumpkin stew as hearty as cassoulet, spicy as gumbo," Peter Jon Lindberg writes of a dish he encountered on a trip to a rugged region of Argentina. Tamales and empanadas, too. -- Jeff Gordinier 
The Boston Globe: Roast chicken, escarole, lemon slices in soup. Back to basics. -- Julia Moskin
The New York Times: The curse of the undead: "Zombie" restaurant chains like Friendly's, Perkins and Sbarro are limping along despite lousy sales and bankruptcy, hurting healthier rivals in an overstuffed industry. -- Patrick Farrell 
Herbivoracious: Ready for a new-year purge? Begin here, with a recipe for bar-snack-ish vegetarian rolls wrapped in crispy yuba. ...
SF Weekly: ... Or, if you want to cut back but you're not totally prepared to give up that feeling of fatty indulgence, how about a wedge of vegan "foie gras"? -- Jeff Gordinier
Berlin on a Platter: The food blogger Luisa Weiss (a k a the Wednesday Chef) also has a blog about eating in Berlin, where she lives. -- Julia Moskin
Gothamist: In New York City, "appetizing" has a special meaning -- as in the "appetizing shops" that sell smoked fish, cream cheese spreads and other bagel-related delicacies. Today there are far fewer than the hundreds that once saturated the city, but their rich history is worth the retelling here. -- Patrick Farrell
Poem-A-Day: An unforgettable poem by Kevin Young about the mysterious jar of pepper vinegar at the back of the family fridge. -- Jeff Gordinier 
: A journey to the great hill of Hermitage. Jamie Goode is the guide in words and photos. -- Eric Asimov
Mailhos: On pepino and how it should ideally be eaten raw -- or stirred into a cocktail. -- Jeff Gordinier
The Wall Street Journal: Online cooking classes aren't cheap, but they do offer tips and fine details that aren't easily found elsewhere. A close-up comparison of three programs, including the mashup of academia and reality show known as Top Chef University. -- Patrick Farrell
Westchester Magazine: A beckoning array of winter soups. -- Jeff Gordinier
The New York Times: Today's startling statistic: "When you go to the supermarket to buy one of these brands of pre-ground meat products, there's a roughly 25 percent chance you'll consume a potentially fatal bacteria that doesn't respond to commonly prescribed drugs." Mark Bittman on the Beltway battle over antibiotics in meat. -- Patrick Farrell

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MEAT FREE DIETS (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (86%); RESTAURANTS (79%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); MEATS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); REALITY TELEVISION (60%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); ARGENTINA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1143 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1615 words

HEADLINE: More Views on Climate Risk and Arctic Methane

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Scientists and a filmmaker weigh in on the evidence for, and against, a substantial role for Arctic methane in gauging climate risk. 

 BODY:
In trying to clarify what's known, unknown and learnable about the possible contribution to global warming from vast methane deposits beneath Arctic seas, I reached out to a host of scientists working on this question. I also received a lot of reader input, as you can see from the comment threads in the string of posts on this important issue. Here's a roundup of some additional views from the scientific community and one filmmaker focused on question:
Raymond T. Pierrehumbert, a climate scientist at the University of Chicago and contributor to Realclimate.org (and sometimes Dot Earth), sent this thought:
Regarding the methane time-bomb issue, I do understand the need to respond to unwarranted predictions of catastrophe. I've made responses of this type myself. For example I think that Jim Hansen is demonstrably wrong in his assertion that a Venus-type runaway greenhouse is a virtual certainty if we burn all the coal; he is right about almost everything and I greatly admire him, but he is wrong about this. 
Countering an assertion like that has the unfortunate consequence that some people say, "Whew, ducked a bullet there," and go on to think that the rest of the consequences of global warming don't look so bad in comparison with turning into Venus, not remembering that a lot of those consequences can still be very bad indeed.
But the clathrate release problem is in a rather different category from the runaway greenhouse issue. It has to be seen as just one of the many fast or slow carbon catastrophes possibly awaiting us, in a system we are just groping to understand. The models of destabilization are largely based on variants of diffusive heat transport, but the state of understanding of slope avalanches and other more exotic release mechanisms is rather poor -- and even if it turns out that rapid methane degassing isn't in the cards, you still do have to worry about those several trillion metric tons of near-surface carbon and how secure they are. It's like worrying about the state of security of Soviet nuclear warheads, but where you have no idea what kind of terrorists there might be out there and what their capabilities are -- and on what time scales they operate.
Edward Brook, a climate scientist and geochemist at Oregon State University, sent a comment as part of a group e-mail exchange that included this relevant thought:
One problem with this discussion is that there is no definition of "time bomb" so people get confused. It seems quite likely that continued global warming will increase the emissions of methane from permafrost deposits and marine hydrates. Some of that will get in to the atmosphere, though ... some will also be consumed in the water column and in soils. This "chronic" source may increase over time, and affect climate, but for the reasons you discussed it is likely to be slow, and not a catastrophic risk. Of course it is still important. For a somewhat dated view of this topic, see [link].
Gary Houser, an environmental writer and producer of a documentary that's being made about Arctic methane, sent a rebuttal of my initial post in this string, "Methane Time Bomb in Arctic Seas - Apocalypse Not." Here's an introductory riff and link to his full piece:
As co-producer of an upcoming in-depth documentary on the methane issue, I am stunned at how Revkin has dismissed the concerns of those trying to alert the world to the danger of a methane runaway feedback. It is one of the scenarios most feared by climate scientists. Once triggered, an abrupt downward spiral could ensue which humanity might be helpless to stop. When the factors which could unleash a runaway are beginning to line up, it is a time for humanity to take a pause from its many distractions and look.
Revkin's search for unequivocal "evidence" that such "runaway disruption" is already underway ignores the key danger we face. 
In my full counterpoint, I present seven major reasons why the situation is one of great urgency. They are listed below. I urge the reader to please consider my more complete statement.
1) A force that has already demonstrated its awesome power during earlier periods on Earth-
2) Grasping the meaning of "irreversible" runaway train-
3) Insistence on "evidence" trumped by need to act preventatively-
4) The factors present which could launch a "runaway"-
5) The creation of a collision course toward methane release-
6) A classic moment to invoke the precautionary principle-
7) An immediate need to escalate a scientific inquiry of methane- 
Read the full piece here.
Richard B. Alley, the climate scientist and ice sheet prober at Pennsylvania State University (and host of the PBS series "Earth: The Operators' Manual"), wrote this: 
Andy-As far back as Severinghaus et al (Timing of abrupt climate change at the end of the Younger Dryas interval from thermally fractionated gases in polar ice, 1998, Nature), the ice-core data showed clearly that the abrupt climate changes (end of the Younger Dryas in that case) were faster than the methane changes. As the Younger Dryas ended, the temperature in Greenland rose roughly 10 degrees C. in on the order of 10 years, but the methane rise took more than a century, with a more-or-less synchronous start. So, for that case with rapid northern temperature change and other rapid changes in the climate system, the methane acted as a feedback, fast enough to be considered in economic planning, but not so fast that most people would consider it a runaway. 
I can also comment briefly on physical issues with the deep-sea clathrates; I haven't published on this, but served on the committee of a student who did, and thought about it some at the time. Quoting from my recent book:
This hasn't changed. Giant methane belches would require vast stores of free gas, but there are "safety valves" that limit the amount of free gas in storage. And, if the gas is primarily stored in clathrate rather than in bubbles, then heat must be conducted to the clathrate to supply the energy to break it down, and heat conduction takes a while. Hence, the physical understanding agrees with the paleoclimatic data that methane can be an important feedback but isn't likely to have giant rapid climate-changing belches. (There is also the argument from the practical: I suspect that if you could put a straw into the seabed and suck out enough free methane to change the world, the oil companies would have figured it out by now...)
Valerie Masson-Delmotte, a French climate scientist who has extensively studied methane levels during past climate changes, sent this response to a query I e-mailed to a variety of researchers:
We have 800,000 years of methane records from the Antarctic EPICA Dome C ice core [link to relevant paper]. The highest values are encountered during several past interglacial periods (stage 19, about 800,000 years ago; stage 9.3, about 300,000 years ago). The sharpest methane concentration increases occur during deglaciations, in phase with Greenland (NH) temperature and monsoon intensity increases. The sources of methane variations can be estimated using the interpolar gradient (for the last climatic cycle, using Greenland-Antarctic ice core differences after age scale synchronization) and also using stable isotopes of carbon and hydrogen of methane. The data rule out methane hydrates as a major contributor to (i) glacial-interglacial variations during the last deglaciation, and (ii) millennial methane increases that occur in phase with Greenland temperature abrupt events. They point to tropical and boreal wetlands as the major contributors to the events that have so far been investigated. Indeed, methane acts as a small positive feedback during past warm periods (but with very limited magnitude in watts per meter squared when converting changes in concentrations into radiative forcing between different past interglacial periods). 
 We would very much like to have a reliable record of methane concentration recorded at high resolution in Greenland ice cores for a period such as the last interglacial period when we know that Arctic temperatures were 2-5C warmer than present, reaching a mean level comparable to climate projections for [doubled CO2 concentrations]. Unfortunately, this remains out of reach for existing Greenland ice cores so far.
Note that the atmospheric signal is smoothed during the pore close-off process, so that sharp fluctuations occurring at sub centennial timescales cannot be resolved in Antarctic ice cores.
James White, a professor of geological sciences and of environmental studies at the University of Colorado, added this:
A couple of additions to Valerie's and Richard's comments....
First, there is nowhere in the ice core record where we see a large overshoot of methane and then a drawdown as would be expected when a large pulse of methane is added to the atmosphere. It has to come out slowly enough that the sink can limit its increase rate, or else we would see such an overshoot, I think.
Second, the anthropogenic increase already seen is much larger than any change seen in the ice core record. Presumably, then, a large belch anytime in the last 800,000 years would be slower than what we have done in the last 100 years. This says to me that nothing catastrophic happened with clathrates in the past 800,000 years. Do keep in mind Valerie's caveat that ice cores smooth the gas record, so there is a limit to the timescale we can address, particularly for the deep east Antarctic cores....

        
Leaders of Arctic Methane Project Clarify Climate Concerns
        
The Heat Over Bubbling Arctic Methane
        
What's Really Up With North Pole Sea Ice?
        
Methane Time Bomb in Arctic Seas - Apocalypse Not
        
The Arctic Ice Watch

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: METHANE (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); TERRORISM (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (60%) arctic; Arctic Ocean; Climate Change; Global Warming; greenhouse gases; Methane; Geology; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Arctic Regions; Siberia; poles; science; uncertainty

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%) ARCTIC OCEAN (94%); OREGON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%) ARCTIC (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) Arctic Ocean; Arctic Regions; Siberia

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1144 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Off the Dribble)

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011

SECTION: SPORTS; basketball

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Magic Owner Breathes New Life Into Dwight Howard Rumor Mill

BYLINE: ROB MAHONEY


HIGHLIGHT: When it comes to dealing its most valuable commodity, Rich De Vos, the Magic's owner, seems more interested in the short-term bottom line than the long-term health of his team. 

 BODY:
Dwight Howard's time in Orlando is fleeting. Although Otis Smith, the Magic's general manager, has stressed that there's no urgency to deal Howard, the best big man in the game, it's only a matter of time before Howard lands on some other team's roster to cement that team's future and delight its fans. Smith and the Magic will be left to pick up the pieces and reshape a franchise otherwise lacking in elite talent. 
The formula in such a situation - as laid out by the Nuggets, the Jazz, and even the league-controlled Hornets in the deals for their unhappy superstars - is to clear salary clutter, bring in young players on affordable deals, and stockpile potentially valuable draft picks. The N.B.A. system rewards teams who completely bottom out, as teams that cling to mediocrity often struggle to escape the league's middle tiers.
Yet according to a report from Marc Stein of ESPN.com, Orlando is prioritizing an instant reload over a true rebuilding effort:
Sources familiar with Orlando's thinking say that a picture of what the Magic will ultimately expect in return for their anchor has indeed begun to emerge, telling ESPN.com this week that Orlando would not hold out for youth and draft picks as the league-owned New Orleans Hornets were ordered to do in the Chris Paul sweepstakes. The Magic, sources say, would instead prefer to bring back multiple established veterans who can keep the team competitive. 
Reason being: Orlando has moved into a new arena last season and has a 85-year-old owner in Rich De Vos. Sources say De Vos has little interest in starting over/rebuilding, as evidenced by the recent decisions to trade for Glen "Big Baby" Davis and re-sign Jason Richardson even though Howard's future is so murky.
Every N.B.A. owner has the privilege of running their franchise as they see fit, but in this case that privilege could result in disaster. Filling seats in a new arena is a real economic concern, but prioritizing attendance over long-term competitiveness could push the Magic into middling inertia. There's no mystery or intrigue in Orlando's reloading options; virtually all pieces of empirical evidence point to this line of thinking being a colossal mistake, and though a theoretical, reloaded Magic team could manage a few playoff runs, its success would likely be capped with early postseason exits and little to show for Howard's exodus.
Interestingly, De Vos's mindset also opens up the Howard sweepstakes for any number of previously disqualified teams. Howard may have put New Jersey, Dallas and Los Angeles at the top of his wish list, but if veteran-laden trade packages are enough to bring Orlando to the table, the field of possible trade partners would grow significantly. It would also ostensibly increase the number of teams willing to trade for Howard without any extension or contractual commitment; if a potential trade partner is forced to only break down its current core rather than trade away long-term assets, the idea of gambling to retain Howard becomes much more sensible. 
Additionally, it should be interesting to see what impact - if any - De Vos's preferences have on Orlando's leverage. Smith was able to retain some negotiating power by controlling the timeline and waiting for better offers, and though a trade for Howard has become no less immediate, other franchises now know that Smith has a mandate to retool on the fly. If the Magic really are set on staying competitive after Howard leaves, they lose their most powerful negotiating tactic: the trump card of keeping Howard through the end of this season and daring him to walk in free agency. 
Other teams now know that Smith needs to deal Howard and needs to acquire other highly effective pieces in order to satisfy the Magic's owner and keep Orlando competitive. That doesn't completely squelch Smith's leverage to negotiate a trade (he still controls where Howard goes, after all), but it certainly shifts the power dynamic between the Magic and all of Howard's suitors. 
There's still ample opportunity for Orlando to reclaim the upper hand at the negotiating table, and plenty of time for De Vos and Smith to agree on a more reasonable strategy that's mindful of the Magic's long-term outlook. 
But that franchise-altering decision has to come from the top - from an owner eying the bottom line, who apparently isn't all that concerned with where the franchise sits five years from now.

        
Lakers Courting Both Paul and Howard?
        
Magic's Season Ends in Disappointment, Uncertainty
        
Technicals Have Orlando's Howard Smelling Conspiracy
        
Howard Questions Magic's Effort and Desire
        
Howard Wonders if Magic Will Contend

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%) Dwight Howard; Orlando Magic; Rich De Vos; Howard, Dwight; Basketball; Free Agents (Sports); De Vos, Rich; Smith, Otis

COMPANY: ESPN INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ORLANDO MAGIC (94%); UTAH JAZZ (57%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (56%) Orlando Magic

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: Howard, Dwight

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (98%); DALLAS, TX, USA (53%) FLORIDA, USA (98%); TEXAS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1145 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: The Biggest Cut in Unemployment Benefits

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: The federal stimulus, now expired, brought with it substantial benefits for the unemployed that have also now expired, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
While Congress has been debating whether to cut the duration of unemployment benefits, perhaps the largest unemployment benefit cut occurred when the stimulus law expired.
Unemployment insurance offers funds, for a limited eligibility period, to people who lost their jobs and have not fyet been able to find and start a new job. In 2008, "emergency unemployment" legislation, plus automatic triggers in the unemployment insurance rules, extended the eligibility period to up to 99 weeks from 26 weeks. 
Several times since then, and as recently as last week, new legislation has prevented the eligibility period from returning to 26 weeks.

The length of the eligibility period has received much attention; it affects how much the program spends and how much unemployed people receive. For example, if the weekly benefit were $275, and an unemployed person were unemployed for a year, then the average weekly benefit he would receive under the 26-week rule would be about $138 ($275 for half the year, and zero for the other half). 
By extending the eligibility period to more than 52 weeks, this person would see his average weekly benefit increase to $275 from $138.
The green line in the chart below shows the average weekly benefit received by unemployed people over time, assuming that: 
(a) they were receiving $275 a week until their benefits were exhausted
(b) about half of the aggregate time unemployed occurs in the first 26 weeks
(c) essentially all unemployment spells end in less than 99 weeks
These assumptions are a close approximation to the unemployment spells experienced by people 25 to 64 during 2010. For the reasons explained above, the line jumps to $275 from $138 in mid-2008, and then is constant thereafter.
However, the eligibility period is not the only part of the unemployment insurance rules that have changed since the recession began. The American Reinvestment and Recovery Act (the "stimulus law") made a number of additional changes. 
It increased the weekly benefit by $25 a week (and guaranteed that the $25 increase would not cause anyone to lose Medicaid coverage); federally funded 100 percent of extended benefits; exempted the first $2,400 of unemployment insurance received in 2009 from federal income tax; and paid 65 percent of an unemployed person's health insurance premiums. 
The act also paid states about $7 billion to allow more of the unemployed to qualify for benefits.
The federal financng of extended benefits meant that employers would not be liable for the extended benefits received by their former employees, which makes it less profitable for them to contest unemployment claims made by their former employees.
A $25 weekly benefit bonus was clearly worth $25 a week for as long as it lasted (until mid-2010). At a marginal federal income tax rate of 21 percent, the exemption from federal income tax on the first $2,400 of unemployment insurance received in 2009 is worth about another $10 a week.
Perhaps the most valuable added benefit was the health insurance subsidy. For unemployed people who, through the Cobra program, continued to participate in the health insurance plan they had with their former employer, the federal government would pay 65 percent of the premium. For such people, this subsidy is estimated to be worth about $170 weekly. This benefit ended in mid-2010.
The red line in the chart shows the combined unemployment benefits for an unemployed person participating in the Cobra program, excluding any benefits received from other safety-net programs such as food stamps or Medicaid. 
The weekly benefit peaks in 2009 at $455. The increase in early 2009 when the stimulus law passed is even greater than the increase in mid-2008 from the lengthening of the eligibility period.
It is not yet known how many unemployed people received the Cobra health insurance subsidy, but many who did not had their health insurance covered by another federal program, Medicaid.
Moreover, a $455 weekly benefit is not small change; it is much more than someone would earn on a full-time job that paid minimum wage. Among the 106 million working-age heads of households and their spouses lucky enough to be working in 2009, about 25 million of them were earning less than $455 a week.
Even though Congress has not yet let emergency unemployment benefits expire, the largest unemployment benefit cut may have already occurred in 2010 when the stimulus law expired.

        
How Unemployment Benefits Became Twice as Generous
        
With Unemployment Insurance, Is 99 Weeks the Magic Number?
        
Unemployment Compensation Over Time
        
Hiring, 'Quits' and Layoffs
        
Millions Caught by the Social Safety Net

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (94%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (92%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); INCOME TAX (84%); MEDICAID (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); DISMISSALS (72%) Casey B. Mulligan; Daily Economist; employment; health insurance; Income Tax; politics; Taxation; Unemployment; Unemployment Insurance; American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (2009); Today's Economist

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



1146 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: What to Expect in White-Collar Crimes in 2012

BYLINE: PETER J. HENNING


HIGHLIGHT: At the precipice of 2012, White Collar Watch looks at some of the trends in criminal and civil enforcement cases that will continue in the next year. 

 BODY:
The career of Robert G. Morvillo, the dean of the white-collar defense bar who died Saturday, highlights how white-collar crime has risen to prominence. His obituary in The New York Times pointed out that in 1973, when he founded a law firm specializing in the defense of executives and corporations in criminal cases, large New York firms shunned the practice because it was "considered declasse."
My, how times have changed. The legal fees for former executives at Lehman Brothers have burned through a hefty portion of $250 million in directors and officers insurance, while Raj Rajaratnam spent millions of dollars on lawyers from Akin Gump to defend against insider trading charges - unsuccessfully, as it turned out. 
The pace of white-collar crime investigations and prosecutions in 2011 showed no signs of abating. The Securities and Exchange Commissionpromoted the filing of a record 735 enforcement actions in the past fiscal year. Prosecutors won convictions in a number of insider trading trials that grew out of the investigation of Mr. Rajaratnam and his shuttered hedge fund, the Galleon Group. The Justice Department and S.E.C. continue to aggressively pursue overseas bribery cases under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, while the demise of futures brokerage firm MF Global generated a multi-agency investigation of the loss of more than $1 billion in customer money.
As we stand on the precipice of 2012, White Collar Watch looks at some of the trends in criminal and civil enforcement cases that will continue in the next year.
It's All About Insider Trading
The S.E.C. has been pilloried for not being aggressive enough in pursuing cases from the financial crisis. The one area where it has been largely immune to criticism is in its pursuit of insider trading. Hardly a week goes by without an announcement of a new case, with 57 actions filed in the last fiscal year.
Indeed, Congress has even been subjected to self-flagellation over claims that it has somehow exempted itself from the insider trading prohibition. Bills that had languished are now moving in the House and Senate to clarify the application of the securities laws to trading on confidential information by members of Congress and their staff. 
The trial of Rajat K. Gupta, accused of passing tips to Mr. Rajaratnam, is set to start on June 9, and may be the government's toughest insider trading case to date because the evidence is largely circumstantial. The wiretaps are not nearly as incriminating as they were in other cases because Mr. Gupta was not captured directly passing valuable information. The jury will have to decide whether Mr. Rajaratnam's boasts about his inside source are enough to convict.
The use of wiretaps will be the focal point of Mr. Rajaratnam's appeal of his convictions and 11-year sentence for insider trading. The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York will hear arguments later in 2012, and its opinion will provide an important framework for how prosecutors can use this tool in future investigations of securities and financial fraud.
WWJD (What Will Jed Do)
Jed S. Rakoff, a Federal District Court judge, has had an outsize impact on securities cases over the last few years, holding the S.E.C.'s feet to the fire over its proposed settlements with Bank of America (grudgingly approved) and Citigroup (rejected). A lone Federal District Court judge usually does not garner that much attention, but sitting on the Southern District of New York and drawing what seems like an inordinate number of high-profile securities cases means Judge Rakoff has had a much greater impact than many of his colleagues.
His questioning of S.E.C. settlements has already affected a case in Wisconsin, where a judge raised similar questions about the proposed resolution of a case involving the Koss Corporation and its chief executive over inaccurate financial statements. The S.E.C. is appealing the rejection of the Citigroup settlement. We should know within a few months whether Judge Rakoff's challenge to the policy of settling cases without admitting or denying liability will continue.
Judge Rakoff is also presiding over Mr. Gupta's trial, and a companion S.E.C. civil action against him. So he is sure to be in the news with that case. And given his penchant for broad rulings and taking a skeptical view of the S.E.C.'s claims, we should expect the unexpected when Judge Rakoff is assigned to a case.
Cleaning Up Ponzi Schemes
It has been three years since two of the largest Ponzi schemes in history came to light. Bernard L. Madoff was arrested in December 2008 for orchestrating a fraud that cost investors more than $17 billion, and the S.E.C. shut down R. Allen Stanford's securities and banking operations in February 2009, with losses of more than $7 billion. Significant steps in the cases will come in 2012, although no one should conclude they will be wound up any time soon.
In the Madoff matter, a fifth former employee, Enrica Cotellessa-Pitz, recently pleaded guilty and is cooperating in the prosecution of five other former employees of Mr. Madoff's firm. None have been accused of orchestrating the fraud, but instead of playing a supporting role in the long-running scheme by manufacturing the false paperwork that let it continue for so long. A trial date for the five defendants has not yet been set, so it remains to be seen whether there will be a public airing next year of how Mr. Madoff operated. 
On the claims side, the Second Circuit should provide some clarity on the power of the trustee for Mr. Madoff's firm, Irving H. Picard, to pursue cases against the banks and investment firms that helped facilitate the fraud and those who withdrew more than they invested, the "net winners." A Federal District Court judge, Colleen McMahon, allowed Mr. Picard to appeal her ruling that the trustee did not have standing to pursue nearly $20 billion in claims against JPMorgan Chase for its role in the scheme.
Mr. Picard has also sought permission from Judge Rakoff - there he is again - to appeal his ruling that limited claims against the "net winners" to only two years of withdrawals rather than the six years usually allowed for a "fraudulent conveyance." The decision came in connection with the trustee's claims against Saul Katz and Fred Wilpon, owners of the New York Mets. If Judge Rakoff permits the appeal, then the Second Circuit will shape the course of Mr. Picard's legal strategy.
In Mr. Stanford's case, a Federal District Court judge in Houston, David Hittner, rejected the defense claim that Mr. Stanford was not competent to stand trial because of amnesia caused by an addiction to an anti-anxiety drug and the effects of a beating by a fellow prisoner. The case is scheduled for trial in January, but it would not be a surprise to see it postponed at least a few months to allow the defense to gear up. 
Like the Madoff claims process, those who invested in Mr. Stanford's scheme should not hold their breath for a quick resolution of the case because the courtroom battles are still in an early stage, especially with the S.E.C. suing the Securities Investor Protection Corporation to help investors recover some of their losses.
What We Won't See
The recent filing of civil fraud charges by the S.E.C. against former executives at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac probably signals the end of cases arising from the financial crisis rather than a harbinger of more actions aiming at the leaders of Wall Street firms.
The referral of Goldman Sachs and its chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, by the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations to the Justice Department drew much attention this year, but there has been no word of a continuing investigation by the Justice Department. It would be surprising if prosecutors decided to pursue a case based on the subcommittee's report, damning as it was about the firm's practices, because proving securities fraud or perjury is very difficult.
The Justice Department passed on bringing cases against executives at firms like the American International Group and Countrywide Financial that were at the heart of the meltdown. The S.E.C. has brought the most significant cases related to subprime mortgages, but it does not appear that there are any other "big fish" out there after the Fannie and Freddie cases. 
What's Next
As George Carlin once said, "No one knows what's next, but everybody does it." Who could have predicted that MF Global would implode with more than $1 billion in customer money missing, or that the Olympus Corporation would admit to a two-decade fraud to hide more than $1.7 billion in losses? 
The next significant case will come from someplace unexpected. So while we do not know the source of the next major white-collar crime, we can rest assured that one (or more) will emerge in 2012.

        
Goldman's Cohn May Be Interviewed in Gupta Case
        
The Roller Coaster Ride Continues for Madoff Investors

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); CRIME RATES (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (85%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); BRIBERY (78%); SENTENCING (78%); LAWYERS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); WIRETAPPING (74%); FUTURES (74%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (72%); APPEALS COURTS (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) Bernard L. Madoff; David Hittner; Fannie Mae; Fred Wilpon; Freddie Mac; Goldman Sachs; Irving H. Picard; Jed S. Rakoff; Justice Department; Lloyd C. Blankfein; R. Allen Stanford; Raj Rajaratnam; Rajat K. Gupta; Robert G. Morvillo; Saul Katz; Securities and Exchange Commission; Gupta, Rajat K.; Madoff, Bernard L; Picard, Irving H; Rajaratnam, Raj; Rakoff, Jed S; Stanford, Robert Allen; Frauds and Swindling; Insider Trading; Securities and Commodities Violations; Legal/Regulatory; White Collar Watch

COMPANY: AKIN GUMP STRAUSS HAUER & FELD LLP (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%) Justice Department; Securities and Exchange Commission

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%)

PERSON: ROBERT ALLEN STANFORD (91%); RAJ RAJARATNAM (90%); BERNARD MADOFF (88%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (59%) Gupta, Rajat K.; Madoff, Bernard L; Picard, Irving H; Rajaratnam, Raj; Rakoff, Jed S; Stanford, Robert Allen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011



1147 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: Paul Comes to Iowa, Swinging

BYLINE: MCHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Ron Paul's new ad suggests that Newt Gingrich and Mitt Romney are "serial hypocrites" and "flip-floppers." 

 BODY:
DES MOINES -- As he arrives in Iowa today, Ron Paul is continuing to wage his expensive television campaign against Newt Gingrich and Mitt Romney with a new advertisement that dubs them part of "the Washington machine."
Mr. Paul has used his prowess as a fund-raiser to blanket the airwaves with slickly produced and biting ads. The latest will air in Iowa and New Hampshire beginning today, his campaign said.
The spot says the "Washington machine is strangling our economy" and uses pictures of Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Romney while an announcer decries "serial hypocrites" and "flip-floppers," saying they are unable to "clean up the mess."
The ad also promotes Mr. Paul, citing his "real plan" to cut $1 trillion from the federal budget during his first year in office and balance the budget in three years.
"Consistent. Incorruptible. Guided by faith and principle," the announcer says. "Ron Paul. The one we've been looking for."
Recent polls suggest that Mr. Paul is at the top of the pack in Iowa after a raucous campaign in which several of his rivals have taken their turn as the leader, only to fall under the weight of scrutiny and political gaffes.
Aides to Mr. Paul hope that his surge can withstand new questions about racially charged statements in newsletters that were sent out under his name decades ago.

        
Santorum Takes Aim at Paul in Iowa
        
Perry Criticizes Competitors Over Earmarks
        
The Caucus Click: Ron Paul on Leno
        
Paul Takes On Gingrich in New Ad
        
A Little Soul-Searching in Iowa

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%) ron paul; Paul, Ron; Presidential Election of 2012; The Caucus

PERSON: RON PAUL (94%); NEWT GINGRICH (90%); MITT ROMNEY (90%) Paul, Ron

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (90%) IOWA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1148 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Paul Questions the U.S. Military Presence on Korean Peninsula

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: "How long do we have to stay in Korea?" Mr. Paul asked. "We were there since I was in high school." 

 BODY:
NEWTON, Iowa -- Ron Paul on Wednesday questioned the United States' long military presence on the Korean Peninsula even as the death of the North Korean leader Kim Jong-il raised concerns about the region's stability.
"How long do we have to stay in Korea?" he asked at a campaign event at the Iowa Speedway. "We were there since I was in high school."
Mr. Paul did not explicitly call for the withdrawal of American troops from the region. But the implication was clear: He questioned the cost of keeping the troops there and the wisdom of American involvement overseas.
The United States has maintained a military force on the Korean Peninsula since the start of the Korean War six decades ago. It now has about 28,500 troops in South Korea and along the demilitarized zone separating the North and South. 
Much of Mr. Paul's standard stump speech is dedicated to his disdain for American involvement overseas. But the comments on Korea were new.
The remarks are sure to ratchet up criticism of Mr. Paul from his presidential rivals, who have already hammered the Texas congressman for his suggestion at a recent debate that Iran should be allowed to enrich uranium as long as it was for peaceful purposes.
"One of the people running for president thinks it's okay for Iran to have a nuclear weapon," Mitt Romney said Wednesday morning in Muscatine, Iowa, referring to Mr. Paul. "I don't. I don't trust ayatollahs. I don't trust Ahmadinejad," he added, referring to the Iranian president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
Gov. Rick Perry of Texas also goes after Mr. Paul at virtually every stop, saying that "you don't have to vote for a candidate who would allow Iran to wipe Israel off the face of the earth, and ultimately America."
Mr. Paul discussed Korea at his first event of the week in Iowa, where he is seeking to capitalize on his new position at a leader of the pack just days before the Iowa caucuses on Tuesday.
Mr. Paul looked out across a sea of reporters and television cameras and shook his head. "There does look like there are more cameras than there used to be," he said, smiling. "For many years, the crowds were very small."
But now, with Mr. Paul leading in some polls, he is at the center of attention and scrutiny.
That attention seems to have done little to alter Mr. Paul's message. Speaking to about 100 supporters in a meeting room at the Iowa Speedway, he stuck to the script he has used for decades.
"Why don't we just follow the Constitution?" he asked. "The purpose of the Revolution, the purpose of the Constitution was to protect your liberty."
On economic policy, Mr. Paul was -- as he always is -- unforgiving about the size and scope of the federal government or the spending that he says must end. Asked whether he would keep the Peace Corps, Mr. Paul said, "No," but he added that it was not at the top of his elimination list.
"I'm sure it could be subsidized rather easily," he said.
Mr. Paul's events are both history lecture and political rally. He tends to get far less applause than his rivals, in part because the pacing of his remarks does not give his supporters much of a chance to respond.
Still, those who attend are especially enthusiastic. One man stood up during the question-and-answer period, said he was a military veteran and declared, "You're the only one I would trust to be my commander in chief."
Mr. Paul grinned, but said he had nothing much to add to that.

        
Military Donors Shift a Bit to Democrats
        
Paul Comes to Iowa, Swinging
        
Santorum Takes Aim at Paul in Iowa
        
Perry Criticizes Competitors Over Earmarks
        
The Caucus Click: Ron Paul on Leno

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); CAUCUSES (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); POLITICS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Korea; military; ron paul; Paul, Ron; Defense and Military Forces; Presidential Election of 2012; Peace Corps; South Korea; In Iowa

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (84%) Peace Corps

PERSON: RON PAUL (93%); KIM JONG IL (73%); MITT ROMNEY (56%); RICK PERRY (50%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (50%) Paul, Ron

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (92%) NORTHERN ASIA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); ISRAEL (79%) South Korea

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011



1149 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: 5 Businesses That Failed To Survive Trials of 2011

BYLINE: By EILENE ZIMMERMAN

 BODY:
It has been another tough year for many small businesses. One in four, according to the National Federation of Independent Business, believes the biggest problem is weak sales. No matter what other challenges they face, said William Dunkelberg, the federation's chief economist, ''the key to everything is cash coming in the front door.''
Inevitably there are businesses, like the Elizabeth Anne Bed & Breakfast in Crested Butte, Colo., that struggled. And inevitably, there are owners, like Kevin and Denise Reinert of Elizabeth Anne, who held on as long as they could. ''We kept thinking we could turn it around,'' Ms. Reinert said. ''We rented out rooms until the day we moved out.''
Here are the stories of five small businesses that were not able to survive 2011. 
A Poorly Timed Refinancing
The Elizabeth Anne Bed & Breakfast was bought in 2003 for $650,000 and closed last August.
AT ITS PEAK After buying the Elizabeth Anne, the Reinerts steadily increased revenue, from $78,000 in 2004 to $104,000 in 2007. ''We got to know the guests,'' Mr. Reinert said, ''and they got to know each other.''
WHAT WENT WRONG In 2007, the couple refinanced, taking out some equity to renovate the kitchen. They wound up with a 10-year, interest-only loan that increased their mortgage payment by $1,700 a month. But with people taking fewer vacations, Mr. Reinert said, revenue declined 21 percent in 2009. In 2010, they fell behind on their mortgage payments and were not able to modify the loan. The bank foreclosed in June.
LOOKING BACK Ms. Reinert blames the refinancing: ''It's what did us in. Back then, we didn't anticipate things slowing down.'' Today, the Reinerts run KR Construction, which does handyman jobs. Ms. Reinert also works at a local restaurant, and Mr. Reinert plays bass in a Beatles tribute band, Dr. Robert.
'We Did Everything Right'
Just Moulding, based in Gaithersburg, Md., sold and installed decorative molding. It opened in 2004 and closed last April.
AT ITS PEAK Mark Rubin and Kevin Wales started with a single workshop that handled small jobs larger installers did not want. In 2007 things were going so well they decided to sell franchises in the business and raised $700,000 from 21 investors. After Mr. Wales left the company in 2010, Mr. Rubin's father-in-law, Richard Hayman, took over as president. Soon after, sales increased by 20 percent and the company became profitable.
WHAT WENT WRONG The recession. The company, Mr. Hayman said, sold a product that people wanted but did not need: ''It was crown molding, not a furnace or a roof.'' And while the business had the high legal and accounting costs associated with selling franchises, it had sold only three by the end of 2009. Potential franchisees had trouble raising the $100,000 to $250,000 needed to get started.
LOOKING BACK ''We did everything right,'' said Mr. Hayman, who sank $470,000 into the company. ''We hired the best people and had a great product. We could not overcome the bad economy.'' He and Mr. Rubin declined to discuss what they are doing now.
When 1% Is a Lot of Money
P & H Capital, a commercial mortgage company in Brooklyn that specialized in finding loans for small businesses, opened in 2009 and closed last March.
AT ITS PEAK Shawn Porat and Ismail Humet started P & H Capital with $4,000 while Mr. Humet was working as a Wall Street analyst and Mr. Porat was running Recovery of Judgment, which helps clients collect legal judgments. The friends saw the subprime crisis and tightening of credit as an opportunity, believing they could match small businesses with lenders offering alternative financing. In January 2010, Mr. Humet and Mr. Porat were piecing together a $500 million deal that they believed had a good chance of working. ''Our commission was 1 percent,'' Mr. Humet said, ''and 1 percent of $500 million is a lot of money.''
WHAT WENT WRONG For one thing, the big deal fell apart. Lenders were skittish because the money would be used to build a factory in Asia, Mr. Humet said, and they were wary of dealing with a foreign government. In addition, lenders wound up imposing stricter parameters for alternative loans. He also said that P & H clients often had unrealistic expectations about how much money they could get. ''We had a restaurant owner that needed $300,000 to open another location, but we could only get him $150,000,'' Mr. Humet said. ''He didn't go through with it.''
LOOKING BACK Mr. Humet said he and Mr. Porat did not anticipate how difficult it would be to place even their best applicant's loans. Since closing P & H, Mr. Humet has helped start MyFreebeez.com, which promotes small businesses online using free giveaways. Mr. Porat operates Recovery of Judgment and Judgment Marketplace, an online marketplace where monetary judgments can be bought, sold and traded.
Poor Cost Projections
ScooterFood, a maker of all-natural dog food based in Brooklyn, opened in 2006 and closed last August.
AT ITS PEAK Shortly after Sept. 11, 2001, Michelle Lewis found herself unemployed when the online art gallery where she worked -- in the shadow of the World Trade Center -- went out of business. An animal lover with time on her hands, she began cooking all-natural meals for her dog, Scooter Mae, who did not like canned food. Friends suggested she turn the meals into a business, and in 2006, she started ScooterFood. The company was promising enough to win a second prize award of $5,000 at the PowerUP! Business Plan Competition at the Brooklyn Public Library in 2006.
WHAT WENT WRONG Ms. Lewis said her business plan was more hopeful than it should have been. Because her food was perishable, she sold it frozen -- but did not realize that in 2006 few pet stores had freezer space. In part because frozen food was expensive to ship, ScooterFood was priced higher than other dog foods.
LOOKING BACK Ms. Lewis said she should not have done her own bookkeeping: ''I didn't project my costs well and never really knew if my revenue was covering them.'' Over five years she invested about $60,000. With a clearer picture, she said, she might have closed the business sooner. In September, Ms. Lewis started Spoonable, a line of caramel sauces. She has hired outside bookkeeping help.
The Missing Profits
SmartyVA was an online training program for virtual assistants who specialize in social media management that was based in San Luis Obispo, Calif. It opened in 2009 and closed last February.
AT ITS PEAK In 2009 Starr Hall, a public relations consultant who was overwhelmed with requests for social media help, saw an opportunity. She invested $10,000 to create SmartyVA training materials and a Web site with a search engine that aggregated job leads. The six-week training program cost $1,000 and was aimed at stay-at-home mothers and disenfranchised women, like victims of domestic violence. When graduates took jobs through leads on the site, SmartyVA received 10 percent of their earnings. The company generated $100,000 in revenue its first six months.
WHAT WENT WRONG SmartyVA's profitability depended on graduates following up on job leads they received through the system. ''A hundred virtual assistants finished the program, but only 21 of them were working,'' Ms. Hall said. ''If all of them had been working, profits would have been huge.''
LOOKING BACK ''I didn't anticipate how different the mindset of the women I was training was from my own,'' she said. Ms. Hall has returned to consulting. Her new book is, ''The Social Wave: Why Your Business Is Wiping Out with Social Media and How to Fix It.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kevin and Denise Reinert of Crested Butte, Colo., and the guest house they had to close this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); FRANCHISING (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RESTAURANTS (76%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); FORECLOSURE (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011



1150 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: Oil Prices Predicted to Stay Above $100 a Barrel Through Next Year

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL and RICK GLADSTONE; Seth Feaster and Elisabeth Bumiller contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The United States economy managed to cope this year despite triple-digit prices for barrels of oil. The lessons may come in handy, economists say, because those prices will probably be sticking around.
With Iran threatening to cut off about a fifth of the world's oil supply by closing the Strait of Hormuz and unrest in Iraq endangering the ability to increase production there, financial analysts say prices for two important oil benchmarks will average from $100 a barrel to $120 a barrel in 2012.
For consumers, who have been driving less and buying more fuel-efficient cars, weakened demand has helped lower gasoline prices 70 cents since May, to a national average of $3.24 for a gallon of regular unleaded, according to the AAA Fuel Gauge Report.
Now, though, the focus has turned to Iran. On Wednesday, Iran and the United States sharpened their tone over Iran's vow to close the Strait of Hormuz if Western powers tried to stifle Iran's petroleum exports. 
The catalyst for the Iranian threats are new efforts by the United States and the European Union to pressure Iran into ending its nuclear program, which Iran has refused to do despite four rounds of sanctions imposed by the United Nations Security Council.
Those sanctions have not focused on Iran's oil exports. But in recent weeks, the European Union has talked openly of imposing a boycott on Iranian oil, and President Obama is preparing to sign legislation that, if fully enforced, could impose harsh penalties on all buyers of Iran's oil, with the aim of severely impeding Iran's ability to sell it.
Rear Adm. Habibollah Sayyari, Iran's naval commander, said in remarks carried by an official Iranian new site that ''closing the Strait of Hormuz is very easy for Iranian naval forces.'' Admiral Sayyari, whose forces were in the midst of ambitious war game exercises in waters near the Strait of Hormuz, was the second top Iranian official to make such a threat in 24 hours.
A spokeswoman for the United States Navy's Fifth Fleet, which is based in Bahrain and patrols the strait, responded: ''Anyone who threatens to disrupt freedom of navigation in an international strait is clearly outside the community of nations; any disruption will not be tolerated.''
The Strait of Hormuz, with two mile-wide channels for commercial shipping, connects the Gulf of Oman to the Persian Gulf, the principal loading point for oil shipped from Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil exporter.
A Saudi official told The Associated Press that the other oil-producing gulf nations are prepared to fill any shortfall in Iranian oil supply. But just as unrest in Libya shook the oil market in 2011, concern over Iran could influence prices in 2012.
Markets seemed to shrug off Iran's threats. The price of the benchmark crude oil contract on the New York Mercantile Exchange fell for the first time in more than week, settling at $99.36 on Wednesday, down $1.98.
But several investment banks predict that the price of the benchmark crude on the New York exchange will average about $110 next year while Brent crude oil, which analysts say affects what most of the world pays for oil, will average about $115 a barrel.
''The possibility that there might be a disruption in oil supply at some time in 2012 as Iran retaliates has, I think, permanently embedded a $10 to $20 premium in the price of oil,'' said Bernard Baumohl, chief global economist at the Economic Outlook Group. ''The danger is if oil starts to move toward $130 a barrel, or even higher, depending on whether that confrontation will escalate. Then you're really talking about the prospect of the U.S. tipping over into recession in addition to Europe, and that the whole global economy will be facing an economic downturn.''
Analysts say that members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, including Iran and Saudi Arabia, have an incentive to keep prices near $100 a barrel. Many governments in the Middle East and North Africa spent heavily on social assistance programs in response to the unrest of the Arab Spring and are depending on higher prices to help meet their budgets.
''It would be nice if prices did come down quite substantially,'' said Francisco Blanch, head of commodity strategy at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, who added that the chances were slim. ''The idea that oil is going to stay high for a while is pretty well entrenched because this is a premium fuel in the world economy, there isn't a lot of oil out there and whatever oil is available is pretty much off bounds.''
Economists say they expect prices to remain high despite the relative weaknesses of the American and European economies because global demand for oil -- especially diesel -- is escalating and outstripping supply.
''There's a consensus view that high prices will persist through 2012 because of the premise that the rest of the world, the emerging economies, are using a lot more fuel,'' said Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service.
At the same time, there is uncertainty in the forecasts, with some analysts predicting that prices could end up much lower as production increases in Libya and North America and could even drop sharply if the European economy falls apart. The United States Energy Information Administration, for instance, estimated this month that the price of the benchmark West Texas Intermediate, often called W.T.I., could fall as low as $49 a barrel or rise as high as $192 by the end of next year.
Sustained triple-digit oil prices could threaten the United States recovery, costing jobs, raising the prices of food and other consumer goods and pushing a gallon of gasoline to $5 or more. By one estimate, a $10 increase in the price of a barrel of oil shaves 0.2 to 0.3 percentage points off the economy's annual growth rate.
Early this year, when W.T.I. crude oil finally reached $100 a barrel -- the highest it had been in more than two years -- the economy proved more resilient than in 2008, when crude crossed $100 a barrel and the country was mired in recession.
This spring, oil prices peaked at about $114 a barrel and then fell, stabilizing well below many predictions -- in part because the Arab Spring did not stop oil from flowing out of the Middle East to the extent that had been anticipated. Gas prices have been declining since May and gross domestic product, while still sluggish, grew throughout the year, according to the most recent Commerce Department estimates.
Before 2008, gas prices had mainly stayed below $3 a gallon, and Americans were less focused on fuel economy, buying larger cars including S.U.V.'s. But after the price shock, when oil soared to $145 a barrel and average gas prices topped $4, many of those habits changed. Since then, gas prices have remained volatile, rising sharply toward the end of 2010 and the early part of this year before beginning to decline.
New figures from the Federal Highway Administration show that Americans cut back on their driving again in October. They logged 2.3 percent less, or 254 billion miles, compared with October a year ago, the eighth consecutive month there has been a decline. A broader measure -- the 12-month total of miles driven -- shows that motorists fell back to the low of 2.963 trillion miles driven reached at the end of the recession in 2009.
''It's not just, I don't have enough money, I don't want to go out and buy gas,'' said John Gamel, a macroeconomic analyst at MasterCard Advisors SpendingPulse. ''It's, I have found ways not to have to buy gas and so I'm going to keep doing that.''
He added that Americans had been doing less discretionary driving because they still perceived gas prices as being high. ''Consumers have this belief that prices will either go up or they will remain at elevated levels.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Americans have been driving less and buying more fuel-efficient cars, helping lower gas prices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT/REUTERS) (B2) CHARTS: CRUDE OIL
RETAIL GASOLINE
HIGHWAY MILES DRIVEN (Source: Bloomberg (oil price)
Energy Information Administration
AAA
 Federal Highway Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); NAVIES (86%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); FREEDOM OF THE SEAS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); GULF STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011



1151 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Pulls Public Relations Advisers From an Afghan Government Media Center

BYLINE: By MATTHEW ROSENBERG; Sharifullah Sahak and Rohullah Sorush contributed reporting.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- Until this week, a little-noticed part of the United States' war effort here included teaching Afghan officials the art of public relations -- mainly, how to give news conferences -- at an American-financed government information center.
But on Wednesday, as word spread that the American military and civilian advisers had been abruptly pulled from the center this week, both American and Afghan officials broke a cardinal rule of public relations: They could not get their stories straight. 
The Americans said that it was time for Afghan officialdom to deliver news on its own, and that the move had been planned for some time as part of the broader drawdown slowly under way. The Afghans said the Americans were annoyed over a news conference on Saturday that featured criticism of civilian deaths in NATO raids.
In the grand scheme of the American war, this is a small spat over an institution that is little known outside Kabul news media circles. But if the Americans did leave over the news conference, it may signal their growing impatience with the steady drumbeat of Afghan criticism -- and an increasing willingness to disengage from Afghan institutions with which they are displeased.
That is a marked change from only a year ago, when American officials ordinarily reacted to perceived Afghan failures by pushing harder to reverse them. But the urge to reshape Afghanistan in a Western image appears to be fading.
The news conference in question was held on Saturday, and it focused on the report of a delegation appointed by President Hamid Karzai to look into accusations of civilian casualties in the provinces of Kandahar, Kapisa and Paktia. The delegation painted a harsh picture of NATO forces, portraying them as callous and careless.
But that was not unusual. Mr. Karzai has been voicing the same message for years, much to the frustration of American officials, who point out that a vast majority of civilian casualties are caused by the Taliban, not NATO.
Afghans who work at the Afghan Government Media Information Center said they had not been told of any planned transition. They said they had noticed growing American impatience with some new Afghan employees at the center, who seemed to have more of an anti-American bent than their predecessors.
The Americans have been back to the information center only once since Dec. 25 -- they showed up with a truck on Monday night and packed up their equipment, an Afghan official said.
The Afghans did not seem to have a problem with that. ''We have no regrets if they want to leave us,'' said Ezatullah Safi, the deputy director of the information center.
A major, if often unnoticed, part of the American project in Afghanistan has involved embedding Western advisers -- most civilian, some military -- in nearly every Afghan department to help create a functioning government. In some cases, there was a point not so long ago when the American mentors were the main interlocutors between government ministers and foreigners in Kabul.
Their efficacy has, at times, been questionable: the mentors at the central bank, for instance, failed to catch the brewing scandal with Kabul Bank. Once Afghanistan's largest lender, the bank nearly collapsed last year after evidence emerged that the Afghan political elite had used it as a personal piggy bank for years. The Western mentors are now gone.
The Afghan attorney general threw out the mentors at his office last year when they became too helpful in pursuing corruption cases against government officials.
The information center, in contrast, was a relative success, providing a focal point for news conferences, and in the process encouraging officials to hold them. That is a big change from a few years ago when some government ministries would request that questions be submitted by fax, even though they did not have working fax machines.
American mentors still remain sprinkled throughout other parts of the Afghan government. But their importance is fading as the Americans try to start stepping back, militarily and economically. The American Embassy said in a short statement on Wednesday that the withdrawal from the information center was part of that process.
''The United States is reassessing and reviewing its relationship with the Afghan Government Media Information Center, and thought it appropriate to withdraw U.S. personnel while that process is under way,'' it said.
The statement added that the withdrawal of the personnel was part of a planned transition, and added, ''We want to ensure that U.S. support and resources are used efficiently and effectively as the transition takes place.''
Gavin Sundwall, an embassy spokesman, said later in a brief telephone interview that timing of the pullout and the news conference were only a ''coincidence.''
American financing will continue. Afghan officials said the center received $3 million this year, and $4 million last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TALIBAN (79%); ARMED FORCES (71%); APPOINTMENTS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011



1152 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Noise Level Rises Over Iran Threat to Close Strait of Hormuz

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE; Elisabeth Bumiller contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
Iran and the United States elevated the belligerent tone between them on Wednesday over an Iranian vow to close the Strait of Hormuz, a vital Middle East waterway for oil tanker traffic, if Western powers attempted to make good on their threat to stifle Iran's petroleum exports.
Rear Adm. Habibollah Sayyari, Iran's naval commander, said that ''Iran has total control over the strategic waterway,'' and that ''Closing the Strait of Hormuz is very easy for Iranian naval forces,'' in remarks carried by Press TV, an official Iranian news site. Admiral Sayyari, whose forces are in the midst of an ambitious war-games exercise in waters near the Strait of Hormuz, was the second top Iranian official to make such a threat in 24 hours. 
Both the Defense Department and the United States Navy's Fifth Fleet, which is based in Bahrain and patrols the Strait of Hormuz, responded to Admiral Sayyari's remarks in statements that suggested American warships would stop the Iranians if necessary.
''The free flow of goods and services through the Strait of Hormuz is vital to regional and global prosperity,'' Lt. Rebecca Rebarich, a spokeswoman for the Fifth Fleet command in Manama, Bahrain, said in an emailed response. ''Anyone who threatens to disrupt freedom of navigation in an international strait is clearly outside the community of nations; any disruption will not be tolerated.''
The statement also said ''The U.S. Navy is a flexible, multi-capable force committed to regional security and stability, always ready to counter malevolent actions to ensure freedom of navigation.''
George Little, the Pentagon press secretary, issued a similar warning, but he also pointed out that the Pentagon was ''unaware of any aggressive or hostile action directed against U.S. ships'' at this time.
France weighed in with a reaction to the Iranian threat as well, calling on Iran to respect international law regarding the strait, which is 21 miles wide at its narrowest point and separates Oman and Iran. Bernard Valero, a spokesman for France's Foreign Ministry, told reporters at a regular news briefing: ''The Strait of Hormuz is an international strait. As a result, all ships regardless of their nationality benefit from the right of transit in line with the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and international maritime customs.''
On Tuesday, Iran's vice president, Mohammad Reza-Rahimi, was the first top Iranian official to explicitly threaten to close the Strait, saying that if Western powers ''impose sanctions on Iran's oil exports, then even one drop of oil cannot flow from the Strait of Hormuz.''
The catalyst for the Iranian threats are new efforts underway by the United States and European Union to pressure Iran into disbanding its nuclear program, which Iran has refused to do despite four rounds of sanctions imposed by the United Nations Security Council.
Those sanctions have not targeted Iran's oil exports, the world's third largest. But in recent weeks, the European Union has talked openly of imposing a boycott on Iranian oil, and President Obama is preparing to sign legislation that, if fully enforced, could impose harsh penalties on all buyers of Iran's oil, with the aim of severely impeding Iran's ability to sell it. If successful, the measure would create onerous new pressure on the Iranian economy, which is already fraying from the accumulated effects of the other sanctions.
Iran has said its uranium enrichment is purely peaceful, but an International Atomic Energy Agency report issued last month suggested that Iran may be working on a nuclear weapon and a missile delivery system for it. The United States and its allies have said that a nuclear-armed Iran would be unacceptable.
The Strait of Hormuz, with two mile-wide channels for commercial shipping, connects the Sea of Oman to the Persian Gulf, the principal loading point for oil shipped from Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil exporter. The Strait carried 33 percent of all oil shipped by sea in 2009 and nearly 20 percent of all oil traded worldwide, according to the United States Energy Information Administration, which has called it the world's most important ''oil chokepoint.''
Markets seemed to shrug off Iran's threats. On Wednesday, the price of the benchmark crude oil contract on the New York Mercantile Exchange fell for the first time in more than week and was trading at just below $100 a barrel at midday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BULK SHIPPING (90%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (90%); MARINE TANKERS (90%); NAVIES (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (88%); FREEDOM OF THE SEAS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); MILITARY VESSELS (76%); NAVAL VESSELS (76%); LAW OF THE SEA (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (67%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); OCEANS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); BAHRAIN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); OMAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011



1153 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: City Misses Out On Collecting Aid to Schools

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
New York City has failed to recover tens of millions of dollars in Medicaid reimbursements for services it provided to special-needs students in recent years, as the Education Department has struggled to adapt to new rules imposed after a devastating federal audit forced the city to return money it received for claims it could not properly document.
State Health Department data from 2006 to 2010 show that education-related claims by the city were 60 percent lower last year than they were five years ago. And virtually all of the $302 million in Medicaid reimbursements the city did receive during that period were for administrative claims that, under the rules that took effect in September 2009, are no longer eligible for reimbursement.
New York, where more than two-thirds of the 168,000 special-needs students are poor enough to qualify for Medicaid, has lagged far behind the state's other large school districts in filing claims. In fact, the city's Education Department filed no claims related to nursing services, occupational and physical therapy, psychological counseling, audiological evaluations or transportation between 2006 and 2010; meanwhile, Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse and Yonkers -- where the combined special education populations are less than 10 percent of New York City's -- were reimbursed $77 million for such services. 
The city's Education Department did not try to file thousands of claims in the 16 months immediately after the new rules were announced, the state records show. A spokeswoman said it was because the department lacked the staff and the training to handle the more demanding requirements. (Data for 2011 was not available.) Claims can be filed for up to 24 months after the service is provided, but much of the required material cannot be retroactively documented.
''The Medicaid reimbursement process has become increasingly cumbersome,'' the spokeswoman, Barbara Morgan, said.
Ms. Morgan said a city analysis found that the Education Department did not have proper documentation for all but 9,000 students during the 2007-8 and 2008-9 school years, a period covered retroactively by the new rules. The analysis shows, however, that even for those students, almost 20 percent of the $10 million in claims filed were rejected for not meeting the new criteria.
In September, for the first time since 1988, when Congress allowed school districts to file for Medicaid reimbursements, the city put a manager in charge of handling the claims exclusively, one of several recent changes intended to improve collections.
''We aggressively pursue reimbursements,'' Ms. Morgan said, ''and are working towards a long-term, streamlined solution that will allow us to receive money available to our students.''
The new rules are part of a settlement in which New York City agreed to repay the federal government $100 million -- and the state $332 million -- after a 2005 audit unearthed myriad irregularities in its claims. They require school districts to file claims much as medical clinics do. For example, doctor's orders must accompany individual claims, and districts must use specific codes for the types of services they provide. In addition, therapists are now required to hold higher levels of certification -- levels which half of New York City's speech teachers lack -- and districts must provide annual training, and hire compliance officers.
Other school districts are also struggling. Since counseling sessions led by guidance counselors and social workers are no longer eligible for reimbursement, Syracuse recently hired two licensed therapists, at a cost of $250,000. Even so, the district has been able to file only about one-quarter of the claims it once did, its chief financial officer, Suzanne Slack, said.
''The new regulations nearly crippled us,'' Ms. Slack said.
But at a time of tight budgets and grim economic forecasts, many districts and states -- each with its own set of filing rules -- have invested heavily in compliance. Bruce Hunter, associate executive director for policy at the American Association of School Administrators, said the reimbursements, generally from 50 percent to 70 percent of the cost of a service, had become ''an enormous help to school districts'' across the country.
In New Jersey, where the state treasury retains 65 percent of the reimbursements, filing the claims has been mandatory since 2008, and the state has set precise goals for its districts, including a 90 percent return rate on forms giving parental permission for schools to file on a child's behalf. In Washington, Mayor Vincent C. Gray asked the accounting firm Deloitte in February to suggest, among other things, ways to improve the system used by local schools to apply for reimbursements.
Each of the 57 county-level school districts in Michigan, where 40 percent of the reimbursements are kept by the state, has had its own Medicaid coordinator for years. Their duties include hiring therapists and nurses whose certification meets federal requirements and, much like an attendant at a doctor's office, keeping students' prescriptions up to date to ensure the claims are not disallowed, said Jane E. Reagan, a Medicaid specialist at the Michigan Education Department.
''It's a hassle, but once you've got the infrastructure and staff in place, the costs are almost always worth the benefit,'' said Ms. Reagan, who is the president of the National Alliance for Medicaid in Education, a professional group.
In New York State, Buffalo hired a company to handle the claims; Syracuse sent social workers knocking on students' doors to make sure their parents signed the required consent forms; and New Rochelle hired a consultant to train school bus monitors to note pickup and drop-off times for special-needs children, as mandated by the new rules, which district officials estimate will lead to $100,000 in additional claims each year.
''We'll be able to put more teachers in the classroom and more staff in our schools without costing the local taxpayer any additional money,'' said Yvette Goorevitch, New Rochelle's director of special and alternative education.
But in New York City, according to a September letter from the State Health Department, officials were still submitting some claims using forms that are no longer accepted. A second state audit, released in April, showed that many of the city's claims in 2009 were missing documentation or showed incorrect dates for services, forcing the Education Department to return $87,000 as a result.
The Manhattan borough president, Scott M. Stringer, wrote to Dennis M. Walcott, the schools chancellor, in October, criticizing the city for failing ''for years to apply in an organized fashion'' for the reimbursements. ''Funding for public schools have been cut to the bone, and it's unconscionable that the D.O.E. will leave millions of dollars on the table,'' Mr. Stringer, a mayoral hopeful, said in an interview.
Ms. Morgan, the spokeswoman, said the city was working on the problems. In addition to putting a manager in charge of the claims, the department hired a Medicaid compliance officer last year. This fall, it added 15 doctors, who are paid about $60 an hour, plus some benefits, to work approximately four hours each week writing the service orders that must be attached to each claim. It also hired three medical consultants who are paid $110 an hour, without benefits, to do the same work.
The department has also screened therapists to determine whether they have the appropriate certification, and whether the services they provide are eligible for reimbursement. It has offered compliance training to more than 16,000 therapists, supervisors, outside providers and finance staff.
And it has spent $80 million to build a database -- the Special Education Student Information System -- that it hopes will make filing claims easier by making prescriptions, treatment plans and schedules of services readily available. Many teachers and principals, however, have complained about the time it takes to load the database and how often it crashes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (71%); NURSES & NURSING (67%); PSYCHOLOGY (67%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (67%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (57%); OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY (52%); AUDIOLOGY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011



1154 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MANAMA JOURNAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: A Haven for Dissent in Bahrain, Where Lattes and Tear Gas Mix

BYLINE: By ADAM B. ELLICK; Lauren E. Bohn contributed reporting.

 BODY:
MANAMA, Bahrain -- The police cars were lined up across the street, staking out a hub of subversive activity. Their focus was not some underworld hangout, but a coffee shop, Costa Coffee, in a shopping mall.
There was tension in the air when, suddenly, the suspects stood up, six women, and what did they do? They smiled and posed for pictures.
The police fired their weapons, tear gas and sound bombs, and the women rushed inside, frightened, a bit, exhilarated, a bit, and very well rehearsed.
''Thank you. Thank you,'' the women and dozens of other customers crowding the patio chanted sarcastically as they rushed inside. The cafe's security guard promptly sealed the doors with tape. The person making the coffee, who had worn a kaffiyeh scarf to protect against the fumes, offered trays of lemon slices and jugs of milk, which ease the burn of tear gas. Some patrons recorded the episode on video, and posted about the event live on Twitter. 
And then it was over, just like that. The doors were opened, and in 20 minutes the patio was once again crowded.
''The cake's just spicy now,'' said Fatima Abbas, as she and her two daughters plugged their noses with napkins and continued sharing a slice of blueberry cheesecake. ''We're used to the flavor.''
Bahrain is the tiny island nation where the United States bases the Navy's Fifth Fleet and where a royal family and its allies have brutally crushed a pro-democracy uprising. The island is governed by a Sunni family, the Khalifas, with ties not only to Washington, but also to Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. The country is majority Shiite, a religious sect that complains it has been systematically marginalized and discriminated against in jobs, education and governance in Bahrain. When the Arab Spring broke out, the Shiites, with some Sunni allies, took to the streets in huge numbers, demanding fair elections for Parliament and a true constitutional democracy.
The repression has hardly let up ever since, even as the kingdom says it is instituting reforms. And with no place to legally organize, this coffee shop has become an unlikely gathering place for human rights activists and opposition leaders. Indeed, the manager says business has recently increased by 50 percent.
''We disappeared because we had never seen tanks and bullets,'' said Ala'a Shehabi, 31, an economics lecturer who avoided the cafe until recently. ''But now we have removed the cape of fear and come into the public once again.''
The assembled have grown accustomed to sipping lattes with gingerbread syrup, a drop of marshmallow and a less desirable side serving of tear gas. But even this patient lot has its limits, and when the riot police fired a second time, and the familiar burn of tear gas struck, tempers boiled over.
''For how long are we going to be patient, patient, patient?'' shouted Fatan, a young woman draped in a Bahraini flag who was afraid to give her last name.
''We're tired of tolerating, tolerating. They kill, and we tolerate. More deaths, and we tolerate. They hit, and we tolerate. Our heart is melting into ash.''
The uprising here began in February when many thousands of Bahrainis camped at the iconic Pearl Square demanding democracy. That initial burst of enthusiasm came to a sudden halt when Bahrain unleashed its security forces, some firing live ammunition, targeting protesters with widespread arrests and torture, according to a government-commissioned report.
For its part, the government has chided these protesters as anti-Bahraini, and blamed them for disturbing the peaceful majority who ''are fed up and just want to go back to some normalcy,'' said Abdul-Aziz bin Mubarak al-Khalifa, an official in the information affairs department, and like most top officials, also a member of the royal family.
''Their message is 'our way or the highway,' '' he said.
Terrified of repercussions, the opposition dispersed. But in the past few months, Costa Coffee has emerged as a relative safe haven of dissent. So now, instead of the mass protests once held in the street, the opposition has been partly reduced to a smattering of activists nestled in the corner of a shopping mall that plays Mariah Carey's ''All I Want for Christmas Is You.''
''Don't think I'm just sipping coffee,'' said Mazin Madhloom, 27, offering a wink. ''It's like being undercover. If something happens, I'll participate,'' he said referring to the nearby villages.
The clashes at Costa -- which activists said is bugged and frequented by intelligence agents whom they call ''moles''-- also highlight how the kingdom feels threatened by even the most benign dissent. Costa's customers include the elite, antigovernment posters on Twitter, who use Costa as a command center, and street protesters seeking a caffeinated refuge from their nightly clashes with the police in nearby villages.
The same faces appear here almost nightly. Nearly everyone is Shiite, knows one another, and speaks fluent English. They table-hop inquiring about friends and relatives in prison. Many received grants to study in the United States.
This surreal scene in which activists gather at a cafe with high-speed Internet to a backdrop of tear gas illustrates the contradictions of Bahrain -- a cosmopolitan, successful banking center with a well-educated population that is facing crushing repression and sectarian tension.
''We want to see the truth live,'' said a middle-aged man who refused to give his name, citing fear of government retaliation. He comes to the cafe twice a week with his three children to post on Twitter from an anonymous account.
''It's kind of a challenge to be here,'' he added.
At night, the police are almost permanently stationed outside Costa, which offers a front-row seat of Budaiya Highway, the road that cuts through several Shiite villages. On this day, which happened to be National Police Day, one of the country's more celebrated online activists, Zainab al-Khawaja, was peacefully protesting when the police dragged her into a vehicle and charged her with illegal assembly. Many of her friends recorded the event on video -- from Costa's leather sofas.
Costa's manager, Ahmed Mbarak, who is from Kenya, said it was the ''the worst day yet.''
Two days later, it became worse, still, when hundreds of police officers used batons to beat their way through Costa's patio, clubbing customers along the way.
But the violence, and the attacks, seem to simply draw more customers.
Ahmad al-Hawaj, 20, said he brought his 15-year-old brother to Costa regularly. ''My brother is the next generation,'' he said over hot chocolate. ''He must learn, and on TV they don't show what really happens.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At Costa Coffee, clashes have shown how Bahrain feels threatened by even benign dissent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAUREN E. BOHN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); RIOTS (78%); RETAILERS (77%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); FAMILY (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (67%); RELIGION (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (68%) BAHRAIN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011



1155 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: The Jury's Duty When the Law Is Unfair

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Jurors Need to Know That They Can Say No,'' by Paul Butler (Op-Ed, Dec. 21):
The concept of jury nullification is more complex than Mr. Butler suggests. Because juries deliberate in secret and do not provide reasons for their decisions, there is no doubt that jurors have the power not to follow the governing law. The critical question is whether jurors have the right to do so.
For more than a century, the courts have ruled that juries have no right to decide what the law is, but rather have a duty to apply the law to the facts based on the trial evidence. 
In a 1983 decision, for example, the District of Columbia Circuit Court of Appeals ruled: ''A jury has no more 'right' to find a 'guilty' defendant 'not guilty' than it has to find a 'not guilty' defendant 'guilty.' ...Such verdicts are lawless, a denial of due process and constitute an exercise of erroneously seized power.''
If laws are unfair, our democratic process provides that legislatures will change those laws. Jurors are not elected and not accountable to the people.
How are we to distinguish those juries that decline to follow the law to achieve a good outcome from those that do so for reasons related to gender, religion, race, sexual preference or politics?
Jury nullification raises important questions about whether we are better protected from unfair results by laws that are uniformly applied and then lawfully changed, or by decisions of juries that may well vary from one jury to another.
RAYMOND J. BRASSARD Boston, Dec. 22, 2011
The writer is a Massachusetts Superior Court judge.
To the Editor:
As a former New York juror, I share Paul Butler's concern that drug laws are applied unjustly. But there are better correctives than leaving our freedom to the whims of ''ordinary citizens,'' like changing the laws and punishing abuses of prosecutorial discretion.
Mr. Butler takes a common-law view of the jury as conscience that doesn't comport with the realities of racism in many parts of the country. A recent lawsuit filed on behalf of excluded jurors in Alabama raises a troubling issue: What if jury selection itself is discriminatory?
Mr. Butler's argument for institutionalized nullification concedes the flaws in the law without proposing a fairer replacement.
ANNA OFFIT Washington, Dec. 22, 2011
To the Editor:
What is hidden behind the heated philosophical debate that jury nullification generates are the real people and communities affected by prosecutorial and police policies. Paul Butler properly notes the disgraceful number of marijuana possession prosecutions in New York City. But what we need to be equally aware of is that drug prosecutions in this city almost invariably target people suffering from endemic joblessness, homelessness as well as mental health and substance abuse problems aggravated by collapsing and underfinanced social services.
As the moral and economic consequences of these misguided policies become more and more apparent to the average citizen, more and more of them will vow, as the writers for the show ''The Wire'' did in a Time magazine article, that ''if asked to serve on a jury deliberating a violation of state or federal drug laws, we will vote to acquit, regardless of the evidence presented.''
It is that righteous vow, and the insight behind it, that unnerves prosecutors and policy makers. It is high time that our leaders begin to curb the abuses of this misguided drug war, but until they do, each of us should join Mr. Butler in vowing to join the ranks of the nullifiers.
KUMAR RAO Bronx, Dec. 21, 2011
The writer is a lawyer with the Bronx Defenders.
To the Editor:
Jury nullification might sound appealing when it's used in a defendant's favor to set aside petty laws. But jury nullification doesn't just let off otherwise guilty people; it also convicts the innocent. Would anyone congratulate a jury for ignoring the law because of its animus toward the defendant rather than its sympathy?
Democratically accountable bodies write our criminal laws. Twelve unelected and anonymous people should not be able to flout them behind closed doors.
ADAM D. CHANDLER Burlington, N.C., Dec. 21, 2011
The writer is a recent graduate of Yale Law School.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOE SPIX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); APPEALS (89%); VERDICTS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); EVIDENCE (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); DUE PROCESS (76%); DRUG POLICY (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); JURY DUTY (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); WRITERS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); JUDGES (70%); APPEALS COURTS (70%); CANNABIS (67%); RACE & RACISM (60%); POLICE FORCES (60%); HOMELESSNESS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); RELIGION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011



1156 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; INDIA'S WAY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3482 words

HEADLINE: In One Slum, Misery, Work, Politics and Hope

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY; Hari Kumar contributed reporting.

 BODY:
MUMBAI, India -- At the edge of India's greatest slum, Shaikh Mobin's decrepit shanty is cleaved like a wedding cake, four layers high and sliced down the middle. The missing half has been demolished. What remains appears ready for demolition, too, with temporary walls and a rickety corrugated roof.
Yet inside, carpenters are assembling furniture on the ground floor. One floor up, men are busily cutting and stitching blue jeans. Upstairs from them, workers are crouched over sewing machines, making blouses. And at the top, still more workers are fashioning men's suits and wedding apparel. One crumbling shanty. Four businesses.
In the labyrinthine slum known as Dharavi are 60,000 structures, many of them shanties, and as many as one million people living and working on a triangle of land barely two-thirds the size of Central Park in Manhattan. Dharavi is one of the world's most infamous slums, a cliche of Indian misery. It is also a churning hive of workshops with an annual economic output estimated to be $600 million to more than $1 billion. 
''This is a parallel economy,'' said Mr. Mobin, whose family is involved in several businesses in Dharavi. ''In most developed countries, there is only one economy. But in India, there are two.''
India is a rising economic power, even as huge portions of its economy operate in the shadows. Its ''formal'' economy consists of businesses that pay taxes, adhere to labor regulations and burnish the country's global image. India's ''informal'' economy is everything else: the hundreds of millions of shopkeepers, farmers, construction workers, taxi drivers, street vendors, rag pickers, tailors, repairmen, middlemen, black marketeers and more.
This divide exists in other developing countries, but it is a chasm in India: experts estimate that the informal sector is responsible for the overwhelming majority of India's annual economic growth and as much as 90 percent of all employment. The informal economy exists largely outside government oversight and, in the case of slums like Dharavi, without government help or encouragement.
For years, India's government has tried with mixed success to increase industrial output by developing special economic zones to lure major manufacturers. Dharavi, by contrast, could be called a self-created special economic zone for the poor. It is a visual eyesore, a symbol of raw inequality that epitomizes the failure of policy makers to accommodate the millions of rural migrants searching for opportunity in Indian cities. It also underscores the determination of those migrants to come anyway.
''Economic opportunity in India still lies, to a large extent, in urban areas,'' said Eswar Prasad, a leading economist. ''The problem is that government hasn't provided easy channels to be employed in the formal sector. So the informal sector is where the activity lies.''
Dharavi is Dickens and Horatio Alger and Upton Sinclair. It is ingrained in the Indian imagination, depicted in books or Bollywood movies, as well as in the Oscar-winning hit ''Slumdog Millionaire.'' Dharavi has been examined in a Harvard Business School case study and dissected by urban planners from Europe to Japan. Yet merely trying to define Dharavi is contested.
''Maybe to anyone who has not seen Dharavi, Dharavi is a slum, a huge slum,'' said Gautam Chatterjee, the principal secretary overseeing the Housing Ministry in Maharashtra State. ''But I have also looked at Dharavi as a city within a city, an informal city.''
It is an informal city as layered as Mr. Mobin's sheared building -- and as fragile. Plans to raze and redevelop Dharavi into a ''normal'' neighborhood have stirred a debate about what would be gained but also about what might be lost by trying to control and regulate Dharavi. Every layer of Dharavi, when exposed, reveals something far more complicated, and organic, than the concept of a slum as merely a warehouse for the poor.
One slum. Four layers. Four realities.
On the ground floor is misery.
One floor up is work.
Another floor up is politics.
And at the top is hope.
''Dharavi,'' said Hariram Tanwar, 64, a local businessman, ''is a mini-India.''
Misery
The streets smell of sewage and sweets. There are not enough toilets. There is not enough water. There is not enough space. Laborers sleep in sheds known as pongal houses, six men, maybe eight, packed into a single, tiny room -- multiplied by many tiny rooms. Hygiene is terrible. Diarrhea and malaria are common. Tuberculosis floats in the air, spread by coughing or spitting. Dharavi, like the epic slums of Karachi, Pakistan, or Rio de Janeiro, is often categorized as a problem still unsolved, an emblem of inequity pressing against Mumbai, India's richest and most glamorous city. A walk through Dharavi is a journey through a dank maze of ever-narrowing passages until the shanties press together so tightly that daylight barely reaches the footpaths below, as if the slum were a great urban rain forest, covered by a canopy of smoke and sheet metal.
Traffic bleats. Flies and mosquitoes settle on roadside carts of fruit and atop the hides of wandering goats. Ten families share a single water tap, with water flowing through the pipes for less than three hours every day, enough time for everyone to fill a cistern or two. Toilets are communal, with a charge of 3 cents to defecate. Sewage flows through narrow, open channels, slow-moving streams of green water and garbage.
At the slum's periphery, Sion Hospital treats 3,000 patients every day, many from Dharavi, often children who are malnourished or have asthma or diarrhea. Premature tooth decay is so widespread in children that doctors call them dental cripples.
''People who come to Dharavi or other slum areas -- their priority is not health,'' said Dr. Pallavi Shelke, who works in Dharavi. ''Their priority is earning.''
And that is what is perhaps most surprising about the misery of Dharavi: people come voluntarily. They have for decades. Dharavi once was known for gangs and violence, but today Dharavi is about work. Tempers sometimes flare, fights break out, but the police say the crime rate is actually quite low, even lower than in wealthier, less densely populated areas of the city. An outsider can walk through the slum and never feel threatened.
Misery is everywhere, as in miserable conditions, as in hardship. But people here do not speak of being miserable. People speak about trying to get ahead.
Work
The order was for 2,700 briefcases, custom-made gifts for a large bank to distribute during the Hindu holiday of Diwali. The bank contacted a supplier, which contacted a leather-goods store, which sent the order to a manufacturer. Had the order been placed in China, it probably would have landed in one of the huge coastal factories that employ thousands of rural migrants and have made China a manufacturing powerhouse.
In India, the order landed in the Dharavi workshop of Mohammed Asif. Mr. Asif's work force consists of 22 men, who sit cross-legged beside mounds of soft, black leather, an informal assembly line, except that the factory floor is a cramped room doubling as a dormitory: the workers sleep above, in a loft. The briefcases were due in two weeks.
''They work hard,'' Mr. Asif said. ''They work from 8 in the morning until 11 at night because the more they do, the more they will earn to send back to their families. They come here to earn.''
Unlike China, India does not have colossal manufacturing districts because India has chosen not to follow the East Asian development model of building a modern economy by starting with low-skill manufacturing. If China's authoritarian leaders have deliberately steered the country's surplus rural work force into urban factories, Indian leaders have done little to promote job opportunities in cities for rural migrants. In fact, right-wing political parties in Mumbai have led sometimes-violent campaigns against migrants.
Yet India's rural migrants, desperate to escape poverty, flock to the cities anyway. Dharavi is an industrial gnat compared with China's manufacturing heartland -- and the working conditions in the slum are almost certainly worse than those in major Chinese factories -- but Dharavi does seem to share China's can-do spirit. Almost everything imaginable is made in Dharavi, much of it for sale in India, yet much of it exported around the world.
Today, Dharavi is as much a case study in industrial evolution as a slum. Before the 1980s, Dharavi had tanneries that dumped their effluent into the surrounding marshlands. Laborers came from southern India, especially the state of Tamil Nadu, many of them Muslims or lower-caste Hindus, fleeing drought, starvation or caste discrimination. Once Tamil Nadu's economy strengthened, migrants began arriving from poverty-stricken states in central India.
Later, the tanneries were closed down for environmental reasons, moving south to the city of Chennai, or to other slums elsewhere. Yet Dharavi had a skilled labor force, as well as cheap costs for workshops and workers, and informal networks between suppliers, middlemen and workshops. So Dharavi's leather trade moved up the value chain, as small workshops used raw leather processed elsewhere to make handbags for some of the priciest stores in India.
During this same period, Dharavi's migration waves became a torrent, as people streamed out of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, the teeming, backward northern states now at the locus of rural Indian poverty.
''After 1990, immigration was tremendous,'' said Ramachandra Korde, a longtime civic activist commonly known around Dharavi as Bhau, or brother. ''It used to be that 100 to 300 to 400 people came to Dharavi every day. Just to earn bread and butter.''
Leatherwork is now a major industry in Dharavi, but only one. Small garment factories have proliferated throughout the slum, making children's clothes or women's dresses for the Indian market or export abroad. According to a 2007 study sponsored by the United States Agency for International Development, Dharavi has at least 500 large garment workshops (defined as having 50 or more sewing machines) and about 3,000 smaller ones. Then there are the 5,000 leather shops. Then there are the food processors that make snacks for the rest of India.
And then still more: printmakers, embroiderers and, most of all, the vast recycling operations that sort, clean and reprocess much of India's discarded plastic.
''We are cleaning the dirt of the country,'' said Fareed Siddiqui, the general secretary of the Dharavi Businessmen's Welfare Association.
Mr. Asif, the leather shop owner, is a typical member of Dharavi's entrepreneur class.
Now 35, he arrived at the slum in 1988, leaving his village in Bihar after hearing about Dharavi from another family. He jumped on a train to Mumbai. He was 12.
''Someone from my village used to live here,'' he said. ''We were poor and had nothing.''
Mr. Asif began as an apprentice in a leather shop, learning how to use the heavy cutting scissors, then the sewing machines that stitch the seams on leather goods, until he finally opened his own shop. As a poor migrant, Mr. Asif could never have arranged the loans and workspace if Dharavi were part of the organized economy; he rents his workshop from the owner of the leather-goods store, who got the order from the supplier for the briefcases for the bank.
Today, nearly all of Mr. Asif's workers are also from Bihar, one of the myriad personal networks that help direct migrants out of the villages. Mohammad Wazair earns roughly 6,000 rupees a month, or about $120, as a laborer in Mr. Asif's workshop. He sends about half home every month to support his wife and two children. He is illiterate, but he is now paying for his children to attend a modest private school in their village. He visits them twice a year.
''In the village, what options do we have?'' he asked. ''We can either work in the fields or drive a rickshaw. What is the future in that? Here, I can learn a skill and earn money. At least my children will get an education.''
Politics
''Now the place is gold,'' said Mr. Mobin, the businessman.
He is sitting on the top floor of his building, surrounded by men's suits in the apparel shop. His family began in the leather business in the 1970s and has since moved into plastic recycling, garments and real estate. Slum property might not seem like a good investment, but Dharavi is now one of the most valuable pieces of real estate in Mumbai. Which is a problem, as Mr. Mobin sees it.
''People from all over the city, and the politicians, are making hue and cry that Dharavi must be developed,'' he said. ''But they are not developing it for the people of Dharavi. They will provide office buildings and shopping for the richer class.''
As Mumbai came to symbolize India's expanding economy -- and the country's expanding inequality -- Dharavi began attracting wider attention. Mumbai grew as Dharavi grew. If the slum once sat on the periphery, it now is a scar in the middle of what is a peninsular, land-starved city -- an eyesore and embarrassment, if also a harbinger of a broader problem.
Today, more than eight million people live in Mumbai's slums, according to some estimates, a huge figure that accounts for more than half the city's population. Many people live in slums because they cannot afford to live anywhere else, and government efforts to build affordable housing have been woefully inadequate. But many newer slums are also microversions of Dharavi's informal economy. Some newer migrants even come to Dharavi to learn new skills, as if Dharavi were a slum franchising operation.
''Dharavi is becoming their steppingstone,'' said Vineet Joglekar, a civic leader here. ''They learn jobs, and then they go to some other slum and set up there.''
Dharavi still exists on the margins. Few businesses pay taxes. Few residents have formal title to their land. Political parties court the slum for votes and have slowly delivered things taken for granted elsewhere: some toilets, water spigots.
But the main political response to Dharavi's unorthodox success has been to try to raze it. India's political class discovered Dharavi in the 1980s, when any migrant who jabbed four posts into an empty patch of dirt could claim a homestead. Land was scarce, and some people began dumping stones or refuse to fill the marshes at the edge of the Arabian Sea.
Rajiv Gandhi, then India's prime minister, saw the teeming slum and earmarked one billion rupees, or about $20 million, for a program to build affordable, hygienic housing for Dharavi's poor. Local officials siphoned off some of the money for other municipal projects while also building some tenements that today are badly decayed. The proliferation of shanties continued.
Three decades later, the basic impulse set in motion by Mr. Gandhi -- that Dharavi should be redeveloped and somehow standardized -- still prevails. But the incentives have changed. Dharavi's land is now worth hundreds of millions of dollars. Private developers do not see a slum but a piece of property convenient to the airport, surrounded by train stations and adjacent to a sleek office park.
A sweeping plan approved in 2006 would provide free apartments and commercial space to many Dharavi residents while allowing private investors to develop additional space for sale at market rates. Many Dharavi civic and business leaders endorsed the plan, even as critics denounced the proposal as a giveaway to rich developers.
For now, the project remains largely stalled, embroiled in bureaucratic infighting, even as a different, existential debate is under way about the potential risks of redeveloping Dharavi and shredding the informal networks that bind it together.
''They are talking about redeveloping Dharavi,'' said Mohammad Khurshid Sheikh, who owns a leather shop. ''But if they do, the whole chain may break down. These businesses can work because Dharavi attracts labor. People can work here and sleep in the workshop. If there is redevelopment, they will not get that room so cheap. They will not come back here.''
Matias Echanove, an architect and urban planner, has long argued that Dharavi should not be dismissed as merely a slum, since it operates as a contained residential and commercial city. He said razing Dharavi, or even completely redeveloping it, would only push residents into other slums.
''They are going to create actual, real slums,'' he said. ''Nobody is saying Dharavi is a paradise. But we need to understand the dynamics, so that when there is an intervention by the government, it doesn't destroy what is there.''
Hope
Sylva Vanita Baskar was born in Dharavi. She is now 39, already a widow. Her husband lost his vigor and then his life to tuberculosis. She borrowed money to pay for his care, and now she rents her spare room to four laborers for an extra $40 a month. She lives in a room with her four children. Two sons sleep in a makeshift bed. She and her two youngest children sleep on straw mats on the stone floor.
''They do everything together,'' she said, explaining how her children endure such tight quarters. ''They fight together. They study together.''
The computer sits on a small table beside the bed, protected, purchased for $354 from savings, even though the family has no Internet connection. The oldest son stores his work on a pen drive and prints it somewhere else. Ms. Baskar, a seamstress, spends five months' worth of her income, almost $400, to send three of her children to private schools. Her daughter wants to be a flight attendant. Her youngest son, a mechanical engineer.
''My daughter is getting a better education, and she will get a better job,'' Ms. Baskar said. ''The children's lives should be better. Whatever hardships we face are fine.''
Education is hope in Dharavi. On a recent afternoon outside St. Anthony's, a parochial school in the slum, Hindu mothers in saris waited for their children beside Muslim mothers in burqas. The parents were not concerned about the crucifix on the wall; they wanted their children to learn English, the language considered to be a ticket out of the slums in India.
Once, many parents in Dharavi sent their children to work, not to school, and child labor remains a problem in some workshops. Dharavi's children have always endured a stigma. When parents tried to send their sons and daughters outside the slum for schooling, the Dharavi students often received a bitter greeting.
''Sometimes, the teacher would not accept our children, or would treat them with contempt,'' said Mohammad Hashim, 64. ''Sometimes, they would say, 'Why are you Dharavi children over here?' ''
Mr. Hashim responded by opening his own school, tailored for Muslim children, offering a state-approved secular education. He initially offered the curriculum in Urdu but not a single parent enrolled a child. He switched to English, and now his classrooms are overflowing with Muslim students.
Discrimination is still common toward Dharavi. Residents complain that they are routinely rejected for credit cards if they list a Dharavi address. Private banks are reluctant to make loans to businessmen in Dharavi or to open branches. Part of this stigma is as much about social structure as about living in the slum itself.
''They all belong to the untouchables caste,'' said Mr. Korde, the longtime social activist, ''or are Muslims.''
But money talks in Mumbai, and Dharavi now has money, even millionaires, mixed in with its misery and poverty. Mohammad Mustaqueem, 57, arrived as a 13-year-old boy. He slept outside, in one of the narrow alleyways, and remembers being showered with garbage as people tossed it out in the morning. Today, Mr. Mustaqueem has 300 employees in 12 different garment workshops in Dharavi, with an annual turnover of about $2.5 million a year. He owns property in Dharavi worth $20 million.
''When I came here, I was empty-handed,'' he said. ''Now I have everything.''
Dharavi's fingerprints continue to be found across Mumbai's economy and beyond, even if few people realize it. Mr. Asif, the leather shop owner, made leather folders used to deliver dinner checks at the city's most famous hotel, the Taj Mahal Palace. The tasty snacks found in Mumbai's finest confectionaries? Made in Dharavi. The exquisite leather handbags sold in expensive shops? Often made in Dharavi.
''There are hundreds of Dharavis flourishing in the city,'' boasted Mr. Mobin, the businessman. ''Every slum has its businesses. Every kind of business is there in the slums.''
But surely, Mr. Mobin is asked, there are things not made in Dharavi. Surely not airplanes, for example.
''But we recycle waste for the airlines,'' he answered proudly. ''Cups and food containers.''
India's Way: Articles in this series have explored the messy and maddening road to progress in India, which has built one of the world's fastest-growing economies in spite of a government that often fails to keep up.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Drawn by hopes for a job, migrants from rural India crowd into Dharavi, a vast slum in Mumbai. (A1)
AN INDIAN MAZE: As many as a million people live and work in Dharavi, a sprawling slum in Mumbai, India, above.
TIGHT QUARTERS: An extended family of 15 people lives in a Dharavi house with 180 square feet of space, left.
A COMPLEX NETWORK: Makeshift homes and small factories are crowded side by side in a neighborhood on the edge of Dharavi, below.
DEVELOPERS' DREAM: Politicians see Dharavi as one of the most valuable pieces of real estate in Mumbai.
A PARALLEL ECONOMY: Dharavi's informal economy includes taxi drivers, street vendors, shopkeepers and many other kinds of workers. (A12)
A CHURNING HIVE: Rural migrants find economic opportunity in Dharavi, including jobs at a plastic recycling shed, top
a factory that dyes fabric, center
and a garment factory, above. Workers risk their health for a chance to earn money for their families.
SUCCESS STORY: Mohammad Mustaqueem, below, who arrived in Dharavi as a penniless boy, employs 300 people in 12 workshops in the slum.
A BRIGHTER FUTURE: Many parents in Dharavi make great sacrifices to educate their children at local schools.
SELF-SUFFICIENCY: Wary of discrimination outside the slum, some parents send their children to a school in Dharavi tailored for Muslims. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADAM FERGUSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) MAPS: A Labyrinth at the Heart of Mumbai: Dharavi may no longer be Asia's -- or even Mumbai's -- biggest slum, but it is still its most iconic. By some estimates, the slum is home to one million people in an area about two-thirds of Manhattan's Central Park. Land that once was on the outskirts of Mumbai has now been swallowed by the city and has been subject to multiple rehabilitation attempts since the 1970s. (Sources: Partners for Urban Knowledge Action and Research, PUKAR
Dharavi.org
Kamla Raheja Vidyanidhi Institute of Architecture and Environment, KRVIA
Government of Maharashtra
 Satellite imagery by GeoEye) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLUM DWELLINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (86%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (86%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); APPAREL MFG (76%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); MEN'S CLOTHING (71%); FARM LABOR (70%); RETAILERS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011



1157 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Military to Lend $1 Billion To Bolster Egypt's Currency

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Mayy el Sheikh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
CAIRO -- Egypt's military rulers are lending $1 billion to the central bank to prop up the country's flagging currency, offering evidence of both the precarious state of the economy and the military's singular status within it.
The loan, reported by state news media on Wednesday, appeared to be part of a broad public relations campaign. Faced with criticism of its reluctance to turn over power and its brutal treatment of protesters, the ruling military council is apparently trying to show it is helping alleviate Egyptians' financial distress. 
Economists, however, noted that the easy access to $1 billion -- money in undisclosed military accounts outside of the central government's control -- is also a reminder of the special power and privileges top generals have long enjoyed. Their efforts to preserve that special status in perpetuity, even after the promised election of a new civilian government, set off the outbreak of protests against military rule last month and the generals' subsequent crackdown.
''If they lend $1 billion, it means they have got a far greater amount out there,'' Ragui Assaad, an Egyptian economist at the University of Minnesota, said in a telephone interview. ''They want to show that they are trying to be as helpful as they can, but it is also a reminder that they have this big autonomous budget.''
News of the loan came on the same day that former President Hosni Mubarak was wheeled into a courtroom on a hospital gurney to resume his trial, which itself is a focus of popular frustration.
Mr. Mubarak is charged with conspiring to kill demonstrators during the 18 days of protests that ended his rule, and with using his position to enrich himself, his sons and a friend. But after five months and only five hearings, there are suspicions that the verdict will be not guilty. That could be explosive, given that most Egyptians appear to hold Mr. Mubarak ultimately responsible for violence and corruption under his decades of rule.
''We don't think it is going well,'' said Hossam Bahgat, executive director of the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights. ''The way it is going now, many feel that he might be acquitted.''
Such an outcome could be politically damaging for the military rulers, but the $1 billion loan was intended to help stave off a more immediate threat. Because the economy has ground to a virtual halt since Mr. Mubarak's ouster -- foreign investment and tourism both ran dry -- economists and bond buyers now say Egypt will almost certainly be forced to further devalue its sagging currency. Prices could soar, squeezing the majority of Egyptians who live in or near poverty.
Economic advisers to the military rulers have said that with the economy starved of foreign money, foreign currency reserves are falling at rate of about $2 billion a month. The government held about $30 billion before the January revolution, counted about $22 billion in October and projects $15 billion by the end of next month. Mahmoud Nasr, an assistant to the minister of defense for financial affairs, has said $5 billion is for prior obligations, leaving only $10 billion -- just enough to cover two months of imports and not enough to ensure a stable currency.
While the Egyptian government is taking steps to fortify its reserves, like selling bonds abroad and soliciting rapid international aid, Mr. Nasr said in state news media on Wednesday that the military was also doing its part with a $1 billion loan from its ''production profits'' -- that is, profits from its unusual ministry-owned commercial empire.
The armed forces have not opened their books to public or parliamentary oversight since the 1952 coup. In recent decades, top generals have built a sprawling conglomerate under the ministry's umbrella, with interests in automobile and electronics makers, hotels and resorts, and products like bottled water. The military also receives $1.3 billion in direct American aid, although much of it in the form of weapons and other goods.
Under Mr. Mubarak, the military often drew on its commercial clout to help ease economic problems -- for example, calling on its bakeries to turn out bread when supplies ran low -- and burnish its public image in the bargain. On Wednesday, along with news of the $1 billion loan, state media said the military was building a $1.3 billion road and sending aid to the recently flood-damaged city of Aswan. A top general went on private television to announce a new public housing project.
Egyptians, though, were more captivated by the sight of Mr. Mubarak once again taking his place inside the metal cage used in courts here as dockets. His condition appeared little changed since the start of his trial, on Aug. 3. As before, he arrived by helicopter. He was rolled into the courtroom, lying on his back surrounded by guards. A thick green blanket protected him from the morning chill, and he cradled his hands behind his head.
Lawyers for families of those killed in the uprising say they are increasingly concerned that Mr. Mubarak might beat the charges. The prosecution appears to be dependent on the testimony of former Mubarak officials, most notably Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, the current head of state. None has provided damning statements.
Gamal Eid, a rights lawyer representing some of the families, said prosecutors' investigation was ''weak and flimsy.'' ''If I were Mubarak's lawyer, I would get him innocence,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Supporters of former President Hosni Mubarak on Wednesday rallied as his trial resumed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FILIPPO MONTEFORTE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (89%); DEVALUATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CORRUPTION (76%); VERDICTS (75%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (71%); ACQUITTAL (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (63%); BONDS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (55%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%) MINNESOTA, USA (79%) EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011



1158 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: On Trail, Gingrich Strains to Show Nice-Guy Side

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH

 BODY:
DUBUQUE, Iowa -- Concluding a luncheon speech here to a Rotary Club, Newt Gingrich held his arms out to his sides and unleashed a most un-Newt-like gesture to his audience: a pantomime of a big group embrace.
''I need you to be with me,'' said Mr. Gingrich, which he distinguished from needing supporters to be merely for him. Seated adoringly at his side, his wife, Callista, turned instantly dewy-eyed. 
It is an oddly plaintive, therapylike moment in the stump speech of a candidate not easily described as ''huggable.'' In fact, for an irascible former speaker of the House whom many would place among the more divisive political figures of recent decades, the Nice Newt persona can fit him at times like a too-tight blazer: uncomfortably.
But as Mr. Gingrich tours the state by bus in the final days of an increasingly bitter campaign, he is wielding Nice Newt -- or trying to -- as a kind of last defense against a shelling of attack ads, ridicule from opponents and a drip-drip-drip of tough news coverage that has clearly blunted his surge to near-front-runner status.
His closing message is rooted largely in a vow not to run negative advertising despite the ''sick'' and ''grotesque'' lies being spread about him across the state. He offers himself as a righteous vehicle through which Iowans can show they are ''sickened by this level of negativity.''
He boasts of how in the Republican debates -- a format where he thrived -- it was he who urged the other candidates not to attack one another, and who dressed down the moderators as trying to sow discord within their anti-Obama brotherhood.
He has been ever-disciplined about showing his discipline at not responding to the assaults against him.
''You just don't have to have a nasty, consultant-driven campaign that produces the kind of junk you're seeing on TV,'' Mr. Gingrich said Wednesday outside Jitters Coffee Bar in Mason City before ordering a brick-size cranberry scone and large cafe au lait.
Skeptics note that Nice Newt is less of a voluntarily disarmed pacifist than a strategic front born of being outgunned by better organized and better financed opponents in Iowa like former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts and Representative Ron Paul of Texas.
Yet, as he rambles forth in both bus and rhetoric, Nice Newt often seems to feel that his most troublesome opponent might be a more-than-formidable alter-ego, Nasty Newt.
''I'll just get in trouble,'' Mr. Gingrich said sheepishly Tuesday night at a pizza place in Decorah, by way of declining (at first) to answer a man's question about why his fellow Republicans always embrace Keynesian economic principles. His stump regimen is marked by such moments, in which the candidate seems to be burning dozens of calories per second trying to keep Nasty Newt in check.
''I'm editing myself up here,'' Mr. Gingrich said at one point this month at the final debate before the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses.
Still, Nasty Newt makes periodic cameos along the Nice Newt trail, interspersed discordantly with his kumbaya flourishes about ''moving forward together'' and encouraging ''great citizenship'' through social networks.
Between stops in northeast Iowa on Tuesday, Mr. Gingrich went on CNN and accused Mr. Paul of ''systemic avoidance of reality'' and said he would not support him if he won the Republican nomination.
Mr. Gingrich's campaign events this week have featured dripping ridicule of Mr. Romney as a ''Massachusetts moderate.'' He called President Obama's economic record ''pathetic'' and dismissed the entire staff of the Environmental Protection Agency as ''radicals who don't care at all about the American economy.''
During an appearance at a farm toy museum in Dyersville, Mr. Gingrich was questioned about this apparent mixed message by a woman in the front row. He shrugged and launched into a stem-winding metaphor about how a great chef is more likely to bake a great pie with a proper recipe (and then added something about how Mr. Obama believes ''that the way to make hard eggs is to freeze them'').
The homestretch scrutiny, combined with Mr. Gingrich's well-documented personal and political vulnerabilities, ensures steady threats to the Nice Newt message. He was freshly annoyed on Tuesday with questions about his divorces and his apparent support for the Massachusetts health care bill; Mr. Romney compared Mr. Gingrich's campaign effort to the ''I Love Lucy'' episode in which Lucy becomes confused and frantic while working in a chocolate factory.
On Wednesday, Mr. Gingrich was asked by NBC's Chuck Todd what kind of relationship he had with his second wife.
''There is no relationship,'' Mr. Gingrich replied, bringing a fresh wave of headlines conjuring Nasty Newt.
Maybe the most natural expression of Nice Newt comes in the presence of children. Unlike some politicians who strain through such encounters, Mr. Gingrich becomes instantly wide-eyed, like a big kid himself, never mind his recent suggestion that poor children might benefit from picking up the janitorial chores at their schools.
His voice -- which can seem whiny and indignant on stage -- softens several notes. He delighted in buying toys for his grandchildren in Dyersville while Mrs. Gingrich signed a copy of her children's book, ''Sweet Land of Liberty'' (featuring Ellis the Elephant) for a man's young daughter.
At Mabes Pizza in Decorah, a 5-year-old girl asked Mr. Gingrich a question of pressing national interest. What is his favorite color?
Red, he says. But more important, what is her favorite color.
Purple, she said.
''Ahh, purple,'' Nice Newt melted forth. ''I like purple a lot.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Newt Gingrich was all smiles as he met voters on Wednesday on a visit to Mason City, Iowa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); RESTAURANTS (84%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (70%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (93%); MITT ROMNEY (54%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); RON PAUL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011



1159 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Selling Arms To Iraq as Worry On Maliki Grows

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and ERIC SCHMITT; Michael S. Schmidt reported from Baghdad, and Eric Schmitt from Washington.

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- The Obama administration is moving ahead with the sale of nearly $11 billion worth of arms and training for the Iraqi military despite concerns that Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki is seeking to consolidate authority, create a one-party Shiite-dominated state and abandon the American-backed power-sharing government.
The military aid, including advanced fighter jets and battle tanks, is meant to help the Iraqi government protect its borders and rebuild a military that before the 1991 Persian Gulf war was one of the largest in the world; it was disbanded in 2003 after the United States invasion.
But the sales of the weapons -- some of which have already been delivered -- are moving ahead even though Mr. Maliki has failed to carry out an agreement that would have limited his ability to marginalize the Sunnis and turn the military into a sectarian force. While the United States is eager to beef up Iraq's military, at least in part as a hedge against Iranian influence, there are also fears that the move could backfire if the Baghdad government ultimately aligns more closely with the Shiite theocracy in Tehran than with Washington. 
United States diplomats, including Ambassador James F. Jeffrey, have expressed concern about the military relationship with Iraq. Some have even said it could have political ramifications for the Obama administration if not properly managed. There is also growing concern that Mr. Maliki's apparent efforts to marginalize the country's Sunni minority could set off a civil war.
''The optics of this are terrible,'' said Kenneth M. Pollack, an expert on national security issues at the Brookings Institution in Washington and a critic of the administration's Iraq policy.
The program to arm the military is being led by the United States Embassy here, which through its Office of Security Cooperation serves as a broker between the Iraqi government and defense contractors like Lockheed Martin and Raytheon. Among the big-ticket items being sold to Iraq are F-16 fighter jets, M1A1 Abrams main battle tanks, cannons and armored personnel carriers. The Iraqis have also received body armor, helmets, ammunition trailers and sport utility vehicles, which critics say can be used by domestic security services to help Mr. Maliki consolidate power.
''The purpose of these arrangements is to assist the Iraqis' ability to defend their sovereignty against foreign security threats,'' said Capt. John Kirby, a Pentagon spokesman in Washington.
But Iraqi politicians and analysts, while acknowledging that the American military withdrawal had left Iraq's borders, and airspace, vulnerable, said there were many reasons for concern.
Despite pronouncements from American and Iraqi officials that the Iraqi military is a nonsectarian force, they said, it had evolved into a hodgepodge of Shiite militias more interested in marginalizing the Sunnis than in protecting the country's sovereignty. Across the country, they said, Shiite flags -- not Iraq's national flag -- fluttered from tanks and military vehicles, evidence, many said, of the troops' sectarian allegiances.
''It is very risky to arm a sectarian army,'' said Rafe al-Essawi, the country's finance minister and a leading Sunni politician. ''It is very risky with all the sacrifices we've made, with all the budget to be spent, with all the support of America -- at the end of the day, the result will be a formal militia army.''
Mr. Essawi said that he was concerned about how the weapons would be used if political tension led to a renewed tide of sectarian violence. Some Iraqis and analysts said they believed that the weapons could give Mr. Maliki a significant advantage in preventing several Sunni provinces from declaring autonomy from the central government.
''Washington took the decision to build up Iraq as a counterweight to Iran through close military cooperation and the sale of major weapon systems,'' said Joost Hiltermann, the International Crisis Group's deputy program director for the Middle East. ''Maliki has shown a troubling inclination toward enhancing his control over the country's institutions without accepting any significant checks and balances.''
Uncertainty over Mr. Maliki's intentions, and with that the wisdom of the weapons sale, began to emerge even before the last American combat forces withdrew 11 days ago. Mr. Maliki moved against his Sunni rivals, arresting hundreds of former Baath Party members on charges that they were involved in a coup plot. Then security forces under Mr. Maliki's control sought to arrest the country's Sunni vice president, who fled to the semiautonomous Kurdish region in the north. In addition, Mr. Maliki threatened to release damning information on other politicians.
With these actions plunging the country into a political crisis, a few days later, Mr. Maliki said the country would be turned into ''rivers of blood'' if the predominantly Sunni provinces sought more autonomy.
This was not a completely unforeseen turn of events. Over the summer, the Americans told high-ranking Iraqi officials that the United States did not want an ongoing military relationship with a country that marginalized its minorities and ruled by force.
The Americans warned Iraqi officials that if they wanted to continue receiving military aid, Mr. Maliki had to fulfill an agreement from 2010 that required the Sunni bloc in Parliament to have a say in who ran the Defense and Interior Ministries. But despite a pledge to do so, the ministries remain under Mr. Maliki's control, angering many Sunnis.
Corruption, too, continues to pervade the security forces. American military advisers have said that many low- and midlevel command positions in the armed forces and the police are sold, despite American efforts to emphasize training and merit, said Anthony Cordesman, an analyst at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.
Pentagon and State Department officials say that weapons sales agreements have conditions built in to allow American inspectors to monitor how the arms are used, to ensure that the sales terms are not violated.
''Washington still has considerable leverage in Iraq by freezing or withdrawing its security assistance packages, issuing travel advisories in more stark terms that will have a direct impact on direct foreign investment, and reassessing diplomatic relations and trade agreements,'' said Matthew Sherman, a former State Department official who spent more than three years in Iraq. ''Now is the time to exercise some of that leverage by publicly putting Maliki on notice.''
Lt. Gen. Robert L. Caslen, the head of the American Embassy office that is selling the weapons, said he was optimistic that Mr. Maliki and the other Iraqi politicians would work together and that the United States would not end up selling weapons to an authoritarian government.
''If it was a doomsday scenario, at some point I'm sure there will be plenty of guidance coming my way,'' he said in a recent interview.
A spokesman for the United States Embassy declined to comment, as did the National Security Council in Washington.
As the American economy continues to sputter, some analysts believe that Mr. Maliki and the Iraqis may hold the ultimate leverage over the Americans.
''I think he would like to get the weapons from the U.S.,'' Mr. Pollack said. ''But he believes that an economically challenged American administration cannot afford to jeopardize $10 billion worth of jobs.''
If the United States stops the sales, Mr. Pollack said, Mr. Maliki ''would simply get his weapons elsewhere.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMS TRADE (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POLITICS (77%); RELIGION (77%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (53%); RAYTHEON CO (52%)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (53%); RTN (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (94%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (70%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%); GULF STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



1160 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 235 words

HEADLINE: The Ad Campaign: Ron Paul -- Washington Machine

BYLINE: By MCHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
DES MOINES -- As he arrives in Iowa today, Ron Paul is continuing to wage his expensive television campaign against Newt Gingrich and Mitt Romney with a new advertisement that dubs them part of ''the Washington machine.'' 
Mr. Paul has used his prowess as a fund-raiser to blanket the airwaves with slickly produced and biting ads. The latest will air in Iowa and New Hampshire beginning today, his campaign said.
The spot says the ''Washington machine is strangling our economy'' and uses pictures of Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Romney while an announcer decries ''serial hypocrites'' and ''flip-floppers,'' saying they are unable to ''clean up the mess.''
The ad also promotes Mr. Paul, citing his ''real plan'' to cut $1 trillion from the federal budget during his first year in office and balance the budget in three years.
''Consistent. Incorruptible. Guided by faith and principle,'' the announcer says. ''Ron Paul. The one we've been looking for.''
Recent polls suggest that Mr. Paul is at the top of the pack in Iowa after a raucous campaign in which several of his rivals have taken their turn as the leader, only to fall under the weight of scrutiny and political gaffes.
Aides to Mr. Paul hope that his surge can withstand new questions about racially charged statements in newsletters that were sent out under his name decades ago.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); BUDGETS (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); RON PAUL (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (74%) IOWA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011



1161 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Romney Turns to Supporters He Considers a Natural: Business Leaders

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
CLINTON, Iowa -- Kenneth Maass, a farmer in Remsen, Iowa, keeps a busy schedule: monthly meetings for the Plymouth County Farm Bureau, for the Northwest Rural Electric Cooperative and for his church, a Lutheran congregation where he serves as chairman. At each of these get-togethers, Mr. Maass, 75, makes a point of extolling what he sees as Mitt Romney's many virtues.
''I tell them where I think he has his pluses over the others,'' said Mr. Maass, who caucused for Mr. Romney in 2008 and plans to do so again next week. ''He was successful in creating jobs and successful in business, and that's why I continue to support him.'' 
Mr. Maass is one of nearly 100 agribusiness leaders and small-business men who will be speaking for Mr. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, on caucus night. The candidate's Iowa team plans to introduce more than 40 prominent state business leaders on Thursday, a crucial part of his strategy to expand his universe of supporters. Four years ago, the Romney campaign aggressively pursued Iowa's evangelical voters, only to see them coalesce around former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas, a Baptist minister, at the last minute.
This time, Mr. Romney, well aware of the Christian conservatives aligned against him, is devoting special attention to voters who he thinks should be natural supporters: businesspeople who appreciate his private-sector experience and his focus on the economy.
''We wanted to do a better job of reaching out to the people in the business community who were going to not only be receptive to Governor Romney's message, but who live it every day and are going to be able to support us without talking points,'' said Dave Kochel, Mr. Romney's top adviser in Iowa. ''They know what Governor Romney is about because they're working in the real economy like he did.''
The Romney campaign has recruited volunteers in the business community, who they hope can spread Mr. Romney's message to others.
And in a sign that Mr. Romney believes his strategy is working and that he can finish strong in Iowa, his campaign introduced a new television advertisement here on Monday, promoting both his economic vision and his family values. Mr. Romney also plans to spend New Year's Eve in the state.
''I just want to do well here,'' Mr. Romney said Wednesday at a campaign stop here. ''I'm happy that I'm getting an enthusiastic response, but I've got no predictions for where we'll end up in the tally.''
He added, ''But I feel like it's going to be a strong showing.''
Roger Underwood, 53, owns three medium-size agricultural businesses and is exactly the sort of community leader the Romney team wants to recruit. In 2008, he supported Fred Thompson of Tennessee, and this year he served as a state co-chairman of the presidential campaign of Tim Pawlenty, the former Minnesota governor, until he dropped out of the race. Mr. Underwood joined the Romney team about a month ago, and estimates that he has already talked to as many as 60 people about Mr. Romney.
''I'll identify people who are leaders in agribusiness, and I'll reach out to them and make sure they understand who Governor Romney is, and what Governor Romney is trying to communicate to people,'' Mr. Underwood said. ''It's a trickle-down effect and a trickle-up effect and a trickle-across effect -- and really trickle everywhere, I guess.''
The ''trickle everywhere'' idea grew out of a business roundtable that Mr. Romney hosted in Pella, Iowa, in August. Mr. Romney and his aides were shocked to realize that he had met only half of the business leaders seated around the table. His Iowa staff members pored through directories for business organizations, identifying leaders and influential community members in four main areas: agribusiness, manufacturing, community banks and rural cooperatives.
Now, more than 100 business and community leaders have joined Mr. Romney's volunteer army -- lobbying for him in both formal and informal ways, and speaking on his behalf on caucus night.
''These are people who can articulate Governor Romney's concerns,'' said Kent Lucken, an international banker from Boston and a top foreign policy adviser and contributor to Mr. Romney.
Once such supporters are in the Romney network, staff members can send them mailers and e-mail, provide them with lists of names to call and include them on tele-town halls. There have also been about half a dozen conference calls, including one that Mr. Romney joined.
The approach in Iowa -- winning over persuadable voters, rather than investing time and resources into wooing those who may never cast a Romney ballot -- is also a reflection of the campaign's national strategy, which merges Mr. Romney's experience in the private sector with current problems facing the country (jobs and the economy). Four years ago, Mr. Romney tried a three-legged stool approach: aggressively wooing foreign policy conservatives, social conservatives and economic conservatives. Today, he has narrowed his focus to economic issues.
That singular approach may also appeal to evangelicals or social issue voters, aides said.
''A lot of business leaders are social conservatives, and the question is: How do you engage them?'' Mr. Lucken said. ''When you talk to them about jobs and the economy, over-taxation and burdensome regulation, they light up. They can still be concerned about social issues, or be evangelicals at heart, but with a candidate who understands the economy, this is a much better way to lead the conversation with voters.''
For Ron Pierson, the former chief executive of Hy-Vee, an employee-owned supermarket chain headquartered in Iowa, helping Mr. Romney was an easy decision.
''I'm very strong with his business background, and I think that's way over-needed in the White House,'' Mr. Pierson said. ''I've been very vocal that I'm a Romney supporter.''
Mr. Pierson said he had talked up Mr. Romney at the weekly breakfast meeting he attends with 75 other men, chats about him to members of the various boards and committees with which he is involved and even tried to persuade some neighbors at a recent Christmas party to support Mr. Romney.
They were Newt Gingrich supporters, he explained, and he was not sure he had changed their minds. ''But at least I made them think about it a little bit,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney at a campaign event on Wednesday at a manufacturing company in North Liberty, Iowa. The state's Republican presidential caucuses are Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); RELIGION (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); JOB CREATION (74%); POLITICS (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); FAMILY (69%); AGRICULTURE (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (55%); VOLUNTEERS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011



1162 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2011

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Unhappy Honda Owner Taking Case to Small Claims Court

BYLINE: JERRY GARRETT


HIGHLIGHT: A disgruntled owner of a Honda Civic Hybrid says she plans to opt out of a class-action lawsuit and instead is suing the automaker for up to $10,000 in small claims court. 

 BODY:
Heather Peters of Los Angeles is taking a novel approach to addressing her legal grievances against Honda for what she says are the fuel economy shortcomings of her Civic Hybrid. She says she is opting out of a proposed class-action lawsuit settlement and instead is suing the automaker for up to $10,000 in small claims court.
A hearing on the matter is set for next Tuesday in Torrance, Calif.
Ms. Peters, with a social media campaign and a Web site against the settlement, is urging other unhappy Civic Hybrid owners to follow her lead. More than 150,000 buyers of Civic Hybrids from 2003-9, the years subject to the class-action suits, are technically eligible to do the same, if they opt out of the proposed settlement by Feb. 11.
The original suit was brought in 2007 by two Civic Hybrid owners. They said that instead of the 51 m.p.g. highway and 46 m.p.g. city fuel economy ratings certified by the Environmental Protection Agency at the time, they achieved only 31 m.p.g. in a mix of city and highway driving.
A proposed settlement was rejected in March 2010 by Judge Virginia A. Phillips of the United States District Court for the Central District of California. She ruled that the settlement contained too little of value for the plaintiffs. The settlement had also been opposed by 26 attorneys general in various states that had joined the action. The judge will revisit the matter in a hearing on a revised settlement on March 16.
Chris Martin, a Honda spokesman, said the company would have no comment. "I cannot comment on pending litigation," he said.
Under the terms of the earlier settlement offer, Civic Hybrid owners who were willing to trade in their car could receive a $1,000 coupon toward a new Honda; class members who wanted to keep their hybrid were eligible for a $500 coupon. The coupons could not be used toward the purchase of another Civic Hybrid - new or used. (Honda also offered to provide a free DVD of tips for achieving better fuel economy.) The revised settlement adds $100 cash payments.
Ms. Peters, who says she is a former corporate defense lawyer, says attorneys would have received millions of dollars in fees under the agreement. She says she is owed redress for the "hybrid premium" she paid over and above the cost of a regular Civic ($6,000-$7,000), reduced resale value of her car and her increased costs of fuel.
The car has been redesigned for 2012.

        
Insurance Institute Names a Record Number of Top Safety Picks
        
Acura Prepares Product Blitz, Including NSX Concept, for Detroit Auto Show
        
Riders, Tigers and a Drill Sergeant at Long Beach Motorcycle Show
        
Honda Recalls 126,000 Gold Wing Motorcycles for Rear Brake System Flaw
        
Los Angeles Auto Show Design Contest Goes Hollywood

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (95%); LITIGATION (94%); SMALL CLAIMS COURTS (93%); CLASS ACTIONS (91%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MOTORCYCLES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (72%); SOCIAL MEDIA (71%); INSURANCE (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (52%) class-action lawsuit; class-action suit; honda; Honda Civic Hybrid; Honda Hybrid; small claims court; Automobiles; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Honda Motor Co Ltd; California; Honda Motor Co Ltd|HMC|NYSE; Fuel Efficiency; Industry News

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Honda Motor Co Ltd

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (93%); HMC (NYSE) (93%); 7267 (TSE) (93%) Honda Motor Co Ltd; HMC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011



1163 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: On Our Radar: Scientists Appeal to G.O.P. Candidates

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: "Ignoring the issue of climate change places our health, our quality of life, our economic vitality, and our children's future at risk," scientists say in a statement. 

 BODY:
Less than two weeks before the New Hampshire primary, 50 scientists in that state call on Republican presidential candidates to accept the "overwhelming" scientific evidence on the human role in climate change and to support action to rein in greenhouse gas emissions. Their statement follows a similar appeal from scientists in Iowa. [E2Wire.]
After angry residents block its first attempt to deliver an environmental impact statement to a prefectural government in Okinawa, Japan's Defense Ministry makes the delivery under cover of darkness. The study centers on the effects of constructing a Marine air base in a less populated area of Okinawa where people are largely are opposed to it. [Pacific Daily News]
To reduce air pollution, London's city government will experiment with coating its busiest roads with "pollution glue" designed to absorb dangerous chemicals from the air. [Clean Technica]
Massachusetts' highest court upholds state approval of a 15-year power-purchase deal between National Grid and Cape Wind, saying that its benefits outweigh its costs. The deal was challenged by some power generation companies and opponents of planting wind turbines offshore. [The Boston Herald]

        
Gingrich's Energy Policies Rile Conservative Critics
        
Rethinking the 'Timeless' Colorado Plateau
        
On Our Radar: Smog Grounds Flights in Beijing
        
On Our Radar: Invasive Carp Reach North Dakota
        
Cape Wind Is Cleared for Takeoff - Mostly

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (92%); SCIENCE NEWS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); AIR QUALITY (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (77%); AIR POLLUTION (77%); SMOG (77%); WIND ENERGY (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (76%); POWER FAILURES (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); APPROVALS (70%); WIND POWER PLANTS (66%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (56%); CITIES (54%); CITY GOVERNMENT (54%) 2012 presidential elections; Air Pollution; Cape Wind; climate change; London; Massachusetts; New Hampshire; Okinawa; Republicans; Alternative Energy; Breaking News; Business; Energy Politics; Politics and Policy; Science

COMPANY: GENERATION COS LLC (68%); NATIONAL GRID PLC (58%); BOSTON HERALD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT (56%)

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (58%); NG (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (68%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (68%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (76%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (90%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (90%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1164 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bats)

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2011

SECTION: SPORTS; baseball

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: S.&.P. Outlook on Citi Field Bonds Sours

BYLINE: RICHARD SANDOMIR


HIGHLIGHT: Standard &#038; Poor's has changed its near-term outlook on the stadium's $695.4 million in bonds to negative from stable. 

 BODY:
The Mets know things are not great at Citi Field. Attendance dropped again last season as they finished with a losing record for the third consecutive season. Revenue fell from virtually every source.
 On Wednesday, Standard & Poor's, the credit rating agency, took notice. It changed its near-term outlook from stable to negative on the $695.4 million in bonds issued on behalf of Queens Ballpark Company, a Mets subsidiary, to build Citi Field. 
 S&P maintained its BB+ rating on the bonds even as its outlook soured, which was based on decreasing attendance, the recession and local competition for club seats and luxury boxes. In early 2010, the agency downgraded the rating to below investment grade, or junk status, citing the bankruptcy of the bonds' insurer.
The change to a negative outlook is not likely to affect bondholders much. But in general this type of action by a credit agency can serve as a leading indicator of a future cut in the bond rating.
In its report, S.&P. said that Queens Ballpark's revenue fell 12 percent in 2011, led by a 22 percent drop in critical club seat revenue dedicated to repay the bonds. Revenue from merchandise, food and beverages fell 20 percent last season, the report added. S.&P. examined Queens Ballpark's unaudited financial report through November.
S.&P. also described as "aggressive" Queens Ballpark's preliminary projection that attendance will rise to 2.5 million in 2012 from 2.29 million last season. It said that attendance was likely to keep falling and that a third of its luxury suites are up for renewal in 2012.
In the report, Jodi Hecht, an S.&P. credit analyst, said that Queens Ballpark received about 44 percent of its revenue from short- to medium-term contracts for luxury suites, club seats and advertising, a lower percentage than other stadiums. That, she said, causes financial volatility because of a dependence on game-day revenue.
Club seat revenue makes up 41 percent of Queens Ballpark's revenue. Advertising and naming rights, which feature a 20-year deal with Citigroup, account for 37 percent.

        
Actually, Citi Field Is Not That Bad for the Mets
        
Stuffing the Mets' Suggestion Box
        
Draw Your Own Citi Field Blueprints
        
Seeking Reasons to Still Go to Citi Field
        
Is Citi Field in Need of a Name Change?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); BONDS (92%); CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (77%); SPORTS REVENUES (77%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); BOND ISSUES (71%) Citi Field; Mets; Baseball; Credit Ratings and Credit Rating Agencies; Citi Field (NYC); New York Mets; Standard & Poor's Corp

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%) Citi Field (NYC); New York Mets; Standard & Poor's Corp

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



1165 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Seesaw

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times, and a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:
Hundreds of Ron Paul's college-age volunteers descended on the Hawkeye State on Wednesday with barely a week left until the Iowa caucuses. Richard A. Oppel Jr. writes that members of Mr. Paul's "army" arrived under a cloak of secrecy and with strict rules for comportment as they prepare to coax likely caucus-goers into voting for Mr. Paul, a 76-year-old veteran Texas congressman who is drawing supporters for his libertarian and antiwar views.
More aware than he was in 2008 that Christian evangelicals are unlikely to support him, Mitt Romney, a former chief executive,is courting Iowa's business community, mobilizing supporters who promote his private-sector experience and his focus on the economy, Ashley Parker reports.
Mr. Romney and Mr. Paul now lead the Republican field among likely caucus-goers in Iowa, benefiting from Newt Gingrich's decline, according to the latest poll conducted by CNN, Time and ORC International. Michael Shear and Ashley Parkey say the phenomenon highlights the continued deep divisions among Republicans about the candidate the party wants to put forward against President Obama.
With gestures like group hugs, Newt Gingrich istrying to tuck away the hot temper that defined his legislative career, but it's proving to be a struggle as he pleads for his rivals to play nice, Mark Leibovich notes.
Mr. Gingrich still believes that "now is his time," notwithstanding recent poll results that show a precipitous decline in support for his campaign and the bruising blows he has taken from his Republican rivals and the party establishment, Matt Bai writes.
Whereas past presidents have capitalized on their time in office to build relationships with other lawmakers and politicians, President Obama has taken a decidedly different approach--keeping politicians and official Washington at arms-length--that carries its own political risks, Helene Cooper writes.
The Republican candidates like to paint bold lines to mark where they differ with their rivals but when it comes to real estate, the candidates are virtually indistinguishable in their preference for traditional homes, Kate Zernike reports.
Happening in Washington:
Economic data scheduled to be released today include Labor weekly unemployment insurance claims at 8:30 a.m., followed by weekly mortgage rates and pending home sales at 10.

        
Five Things to Watch for in Iowa Debate
        
Pawlenty Lures Straw Poll Voters With Politics and Food

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); RELIGION (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (50%) In Iowa; Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; Iowa; The Caucus

PERSON: RON PAUL (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (75%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011



1166 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: Cappuccino, but Maybe Not Support

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL


HIGHLIGHT: New Gingrich visited a Sioux City, Iowa, coffee shop and runs into some aggressive questioning. 

 BODY:
SIOUX CITY, Iowa -- Newt Gingrich's "jobs and growth" bus tour is visiting small businesses across Iowa to highlight the economic challenges of entrepreneurs, who the candidate argues will benefit from his calls to repeal "Obamacare," the Dodd-Frank financial regulation law and onerous environmental mandates.
But not all small businesses are on board. As Mr. Gingrich entered the Coffee Works here Thursday morning, a chalkboard advertised a sandwich special: "The Newt! Ham (lots of it), American cheese, on white bread. Price increase on this one!''
The business, open 18 years, fits the small-enterprise model the Gingrich campaign seeks to highlight. "We're strapped,'' said the owner, Ron Johns. "If we have a couple of slow days in a row,'' he said, he loses sleep. "I worry all the time.''
Mr. Johns liked at least one of Mr. Gingrich's proposals, to eliminate inheritance taxes. "All we do it seems is pay taxes,'' he said. "Any cut is going to help us.''
But he said he was not a Republican. He voted for Barack Obama in 2008, he said, and expects to again next year. "We just need to stir it up a little bit,'' he said, "and I think he's doing it.''
Politics, he said, was regularly on the morning menu for his eclectic mix of customers. As Mr. Gingrich worked his way around the small crowd shaking hands, he faced some of the more aggressive questioning of his trip. A woman derided his support for the recall last year of three Iowa Supreme Court judges who had ruled in favor of same-sex marriage. She argued that Iowa had a long history of thoughtful judicial interpretation of its constitution, which had been derailed by the influence of outside money.
Not all the customers were skeptical of Mr. Gingrich. A man said, "Mr. Speaker, we can't wait for you to balance the budget again."
Behind the counter, Mr. Johns's daughter, Bailey, a student at Kenyon College in Ohio home for vacation, wore a T-shirt that said "Barack the Coffee Shop."
"Callista!" she called out after preparing a customer's order. She handed Mrs. Gingrich her double cappuccino with two Splendas.

        
'Whoops' Is the Latest Ad Attacking Gingrich
        
Gingrich Ribs Romney at Iowa Chocolate Factory
        
Pro-Romney Group Makes Post-Iowa Ad Buy
        
Gingrich Once Sided With Romney on Health Care
        
Documents Appear to Contradict Gingrich's Account of First Divorce

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); MARRIAGE (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); JUDGES (63%); PRICE INCREASES (55%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) newt gingrich; Presidential Election of 2012; In Iowa; The Caucus

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (93%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (99%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011



1167 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: Bringing Home The Bacon

BYLINE: DREW WESTEN


HIGHLIGHT: This time, it was the Democrats who used our emotions to their advantage. 

 BODY:
When I was 4 years old, I remember sitting in a diner for lunch with my mom and brother, blissfully eating one of my favorite foods, a B.L.T. A couple of hours later I began to come down with the flu and spent much of the afternoon throwing up.
Although the B.L.T. and the flu were completely unrelated events, I couldn't come near a piece of bacon for 10 years. Just the smell of it made me nauseated. Perhaps it was God's way of telling me, a Jewish kid, to lay off the bacon.
There's also an evolutionary explanation for my decade-long aversion to bacon that even Rick Perry might allow Texas schoolchildren to hear. Like other animals, we are "wired" to form mental associations that link emotional reactions with environmental events that lead us to approach or avoid them in the future. And as we've known since some pioneering experiments that were performed nearly a half century ago, humans, like other land-dwelling mammals, are especially "prepared" to associate tastes and smells (as opposed to images or sounds) with nausea.
From the point of view of natural selection, that makes sense, because tastes and smells are powerful natural cues that something we might ingest is spoiled or toxic. These associations are different for different animals. Birds, for example, readily associate visual patterns with nausea. That, too, makes evolutionary sense, given their tendency to swoop down to pick off a butterfly for lunch, and the patterns on the wings of those butterflies provide important cues about whether they are likely to be tasty or toxic.
There was, of course, nothing rational about my avoidance of bacon, which didn't cause my nausea. The link between bacon and the emergence of my flu symptoms was purely coincidental. But that didn't change my behavior. The behavior was ingrained, reflecting the kind of "gut level" associations people form all the time, from the aversion to foods cancer patients frequently develop because everything they eat can become associated with the nausea from chemotherapy, to the reflexive aversion Congressional Republicans have to taxes or to anything proposed by President Obama, even if they proposed it first.
Republicans also have a strong association between the smiling face of Ronald Reagan and tax cuts. But that's not all that rational, either. Reagan raised taxes 11 times after he cut them in 1981 - 7 out of his 8 years in office - and he did not have the same reflexive reaction to compromise that his evolutionary descendants in Washington have today.
Which leads to the bind in which Congressional Republicans found themselves last week - and which led to their humiliating defeat at the hands of President Obama and Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader. The president and Democrats in Congress called for extending payroll tax cuts that would prevent about 160 million working Americans, who are already struggling to make ends meet, from paying on average a thousand dollars per household next year. 
Last December, Republicans fought valiantly for a holiday present for their wealthiest constituents and got the president to agree to tax cuts for millionaires in exchange for continuing unemployment insurance for millions of Americans who couldn't find a job. For Congressional Republicans, tax cuts are the chicken soup of politics; they are supposed to cure whatever ails you, from budget deficits to kidney disease. So why were they so opposed to these cuts?
Because they understand something important about associations. Many Democrats have long believed that a campaign is a "debate on the issues." But the data don't support this "rational choice" view of elections or the electorate. When Reagan was president, his own pollsters found that most people disagreed with him on about 75 percent of the issues. But he made them feel hopeful about themselves and their country in the wake of a tumultuous decade that included the Watergate scandal and the Iran hostage crisis.
Regardless of his specific policy positions, between his charismatic leadership and an economy that rebounded during his presidency, Americans had positive associations to Ronald Reagan. In the same way they had positive associations to Bill Clinton after nearly a decade of peace, prosperity, and rising incomes for working and middle class families. Those associations transcended their attitudes about his personal failings (and a Republican Party determined to destroy him and his presidency at all costs).
Political scientists have developed a number of relatively similar models for predicting who will win a presidential election. The two strongest predictors tend to be some version of feelings toward the incumbent president and how well the economy is doing in the middle of the election year (whether it's G.D.P., disposable income, or some other, more arcane metric). But the economy doesn't influence people through magic. It influences them through associations. In other words, if they're feeling stressed, they are unlikely to give the B.L.T. in the White House another bite because they associate the president with their misery. But if their gas tanks and their children's bellies are full, they're more inclined to have a second helping of his leadership.
Whether or not they know the neuroscience, Republicans understand that it's all about associations, and that's why they were in such a bind. They knew that if they could find a way to block what is essentially a continued, if small, stimulus to the economy - thousands of dollars in the pockets of millions of people who will spend it, increasing demand for products and services - they could count on lower economic growth in 2012. And they figured that, with nearly a year to go before the election, most voters would have long forgotten this particular showdown and who took what position on it, but would associate four years of economic distress with the occupant of the Oval Office, Barack Obama.
The problem for Congressional Republicans was that voters already associate them with a preference for the fortunes of millionaires over the millions trying to stay in the middle class. And if Americans struggling to pay their bills came to link Congressional Republicans with a tax hike, voters could well do exactly what they did in 2006, 2008 and 2010: throw the rascals out, whoever they were, expressing their anger at whomever they associate with the pain they are feeling. That's why Boehner and the rest of the Republican House leadership, led by unruly Tea Party freshmen (who care more about defeating Obama than defeating unemployment), tried to come up with one rationalization after another for why they opposed a fundamentally Republican position, decreasing taxes. 
It's a sad commentary on our political system that the only weapon in the arsenal of Democrats attempting to stimulate the economy is the continuation of a small tax cut, and a two-month extension of it at that. The president didn't get the offsetting tax surcharge on millionaires that he (and just about everyone else in the country) wanted. Further, replacing lost Social Security funding from the payroll tax cut with general revenues is playing with fire, for two reasons. 
First, an extended cut in payroll taxes could readily become a permanent cut and a threat to the solvency of what is supposed to be a trust fund. Second, paying for Social Security with general revenues, while repeatedly referring to Social Security and Medicare as "entitlements"- a term voters associate with people demanding something they don't deserve - links an insurance plan for which people spend their lives paying premiums (Social Security) with welfare, making it easier to cut Social Security in the future. And a two-month extension means we will be watching this bad movie again very soon.
But the president and Senator Reid needed to keep their spines stiff on this one and not accede to any more blackmail - and they did exactly what they needed to do. They held all the cards, they clearly knew it, and if they had folded, the only thing the American people would have associated them with was weakness. Instead, Obama and Reid let the Republicans leave the American people with a bad taste in their mouths - and a holiday basket from the White House at their front doors.

        
Can We Get Serious?
        
Primary Sources
        
Decision 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); TAX LAW (87%); CORPORATE TAX (84%); INFLUENZA (77%); ANIMALS (74%); MAMMALS (74%); CHILDREN (69%); EVOLUTION THEORY (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%); POLITICS (65%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (61%); CANCER (61%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); ELECTIONS (60%) Harry Reid; John Boehner; payroll tax cut; President Obama; psychological associations; Obama, Barack; Reagan, Ronald Wilson; Reid, Harry; Payroll Tax; Presidential Election of 2012; Taxation; United States Politics and Government; Democratic Party; Republican Party; United States

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Republican Party

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (87%); HARRY REID (83%); RICK PERRY (53%); JOHN BOEHNER (50%) Obama, Barack; Reagan, Ronald Wilson; Reid, Harry

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1168 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 229 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths KEMPLER, CECELIA (SUE)

 BODY:
KEMPLER--Cecelia (Sue). The partners, counsel, associates and administrative staff of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP deeply mourn the passing of our retired partner and dear friend, Sue Kempler. Sue co-chaired the Firm's Insurance Practice and chaired its Life Insurance Practice. 
She was the first woman on the Firm's Executive Committee and the Managing Partner of the Washington DC office. After her retirement, she served on the Board of AEGON U.S. and on the Supervisory Board of AEGON N.V., and she was the founding Director of the Kaye School of Finance, Insurance and Economics at Florida Atlantic University. Law was Sue's second career, and she pursued it with passion and boundless energy. She was an inspirational leader, mentor, role model, partner and friend. She was a shrewd and highly skilled lawyer who was always the absolute personification of client service. She was wise, warm and witty, charming, generous and fun. And always elegant. She fought her final battle with the great courage, dignity and determination that characterized her life. We extend our condolences to Sue's beloved partner of 31 years and spouse, Virginia Ellen Cropper, and to her family. Donations in Sue's memory can be made to: Boca Raton Regional Hospital Foundation (Lynn Cancer Institute) re: Cecelia Sue Kempler, c/o BRRH Foundation, Inc., 745 Meadows Road, Boca Raton, Florida 33486.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); LIFE INSURANCE (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); LAWYERS (75%)

COMPANY: DEWEY & LEBOEUF LLP (93%); AEGON NV (84%); AEGON USA INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA ATLANTIC UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: AGN (BIT) (84%); AGN (AMS) (84%); AEG (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (93%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (93%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (84%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1169 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Lingerie on 6; Lobster on 9

BYLINE: By DICK SCANLAN. 
Dick Scanlan is a Broadway librettist and lyricist who wrote ''Everyday Rapture'' and the Tony Award-winning ''Thoroughly Modern Millie.''

 BODY:
MAYBE it was that scene between Kris Kringle and Alfred, the people-pleasing porter, in ''Miracle on 34th Street'': lunch at a cafeteria in Macy's.
Before I saw that movie on television in the late 1960s, my notion of in-store dining had been the food court at the mall near my family's home in Rockville, Md. By the time I moved to New York, in 1981, the city was experiencing an economic slump that was palpable in its stores and their restaurants. The celebrated Charleston Garden, with a full-size facade of a Tara-like mansion built inside the B. Altman building, was still open, but it felt like Tara after Sherman's army had marched through, leaving Scarlett nothing but a radish. Even Bergdorf Goodman offered little more than a coffee shop menu.
That was then. These days department store restaurants are once again good enough for destination dining, doubly so now that the January sales are coming up. 
Friends are dubious when I suggest a favorite, Saks Fifth Avenue's Cafe SFA, on the eighth floor. To get there, we must fight our way past the ''Sex and the City'' enthusiasts tussling over Jimmy Choos in the 10022-Shoe department. When there is a sale, I feel lucky to arrive at Cafe SFA without ripped clothing and a flesh wound.
The view alone is worth it: Rockefeller Center Promenade and rooftop gardens on one side, and along the other wall of windows, the neo-Gothic spires of St. Patrick's Cathedral across East 50th Street. The BLT frittata ($19) is a delicious tomato-bacon-cheddar omelet topped with romaine. The restaurant's carrot cake ($9.50) is that-day fresh and topped with just-enough-but-not-too-much cream cheese frosting.
A half-flight up from the department that sells coffee makers, Le Train Bleu at Bloomingdale's appears to be suspended between the sixth and seventh floors. It has an elegant dining room, outfitted like a railway car and widened to accommodate those Big Brown Bags. I feel as if I've boarded one of the luxury trains on my bucket list, if not in my budget: the Orient-Express. Or perhaps Hogwarts Express. (The food could use a wave of Harry Potter's wand.) Truffled watercress soup ($9) isn't as bitter as you might wish. (What or whom else can you say that about?)
But the ''where am I?'' vibe is magical. As was Andrew, my waiter on my most recent visit. The service at most of these restaurants is well above the norm. It seems the age-old department store strategy of cultivating customer loyalty through customer service has been inculcated in the servers.
For dessert, I follow signs through the Calvin Klein bedding collection in search of the more casual Forty Carrots, on seven. Its claim to fame is having introduced New Yorkers to frozen yogurt ($5.50 for eight ounces). More than 35 years later, the original plain flavor remains tart enough for me to delude myself that what I am eating is heart-healthier than ice cream. Family-friendly and hip, this large white room is accented in orange and green and offers sandwiches, salads and brunch.
At Macy's Cellar Bar & Grill, I stick to basic fare like the American burger ($13.50). Display cases feature Macy's memorabilia, including porcelain dinnerware from 1911, an early electric blender, old golf balls and a ruffly black jacket dating to the 1860s that looks like something a Civil War widow might have worn to her husband's wake in hopes of attracting his replacement. The windows look out onto the sales floor, sure to be an anthropological study during the post-Christmas blitz.
That can't be said for Fred's at Barneys New York, on nine. This woody room with its whimsical bird murals is undeniably handsome, and the lobster club sandwich ($36) is loaded with lobster meat. But the restaurant is cocooned from the rest of the store, and I miss the almost musical sound ofshoppers sliding hangers along metal racks.
Bergdorf Goodman houses the two best department store restaurants in town. BG Restaurant is a seventh-floor stunner: robin's-egg blue whisper chairs and chinoiserie wallpaper. The vista of Fifth Avenue and Central Park leaves me awestruck. Meals are served, but I opt for afternoon tea ($35). The sun is shining as I start on the finger sandwiches (smoked salmon, egg salad, turkey and dill). By the time I've finished a perfect scone with Devonshire cream and four petits fours, it is dusk, and Manhattan is ablaze.
But BG Restaurant is merely runner-up. The winner is Goodman's, in the basement, or what Bergdorf's calls the ''Beauty Level,'' presumably because the cosmetics counters are there, but also because, let's face it, ''basement'' sounds crass. (I've taken to calling the subterranean laundry room in my building the beauty level, and it's made doing laundry much more enjoyable.)
Goodman's is sleek but not cold, with taupe walls and banquettes upholstered in a sage green weave. The sweet pea soup ($8.50) convinces me that peas are like atoms: best left unsplit. The Gotham salad ($20), a chopped melange of chicken breast, Gruyere, tomato, beets, bacon, egg and iceberg lettuce tossed in Thousand Island dressing, is retro and tastes really good. The sliced chicken breast sandwich ($17) is served on pumpernickel that is impossibly thin, like Goodman's typical customer.
I am presented a menu of irresistible-sounding desserts, though judging from the startled look on the waiter's face when I order banana bread pudding ($7), resist is probably what most Goodman's patrons do. Apparently here, beneath this temple of haute couture, where Size 2 women outnumber the men 10-to-1, dessert is a dirty word. It's also mouth-wateringly delicious: the bread moist but not wet, the bananas ripe but not rotten, and a creme anglaise made intense by vanilla bean.
Helpful hint: if there's a line at Goodman's, cross the street to Bar III at the Bergdorf Goodman Men's store. Different decor -- dark wood and white marble -- but the same food as its sister restaurant, and there's never a wait.
Now if only Lord & Taylor would reopen the Bird Cage, a bygone favorite of the ladies who lunch. There is a Sarabeth's in its stead that is fine but, in this setting, feels unoriginal. Bring back the rolling carts of desserts modeled on Italian racing cars and, as God is my witness, I'll never be hungry again.
Shopping Is Optional: BAR III Bergdorf's Men's store, 745 Fifth Avenue, at 58th Street, third floor; (212) 339-3326, bergdorfgoodman.com. BG RESTAURANT Bergdorf Goodman, 754 Fifth Avenue, at 58th Street, seventh floor; (212) 872-8977. CAFE SFA Saks Fifth Avenue, 611 Fifth Avenue, between 49th and 50th Streets, eighth floor; (212) 940-4080, saksfifthavenue.com. FRED'S Barneys New York, 660 Madison Avenue, at 61st Street, ninth floor; (212) 833-2200, barneys.com. FORTY CARROTS Bloomingdale's, 1000 Third Avenue, at 59th Street, seventh floor; (212) 705-3085, bloomingdales .com. GOODMAN'S Bergdorf Goodman, 754 Fifth Avenue, at 58th Street, beauty level; (212) 872-8708. LE TRAIN BLEU Bloomingdale's, 1000 Third Avenue, at 59th Street, sixth floor; (212) 705-2100. MACY'S CELLAR BAR & GRILLMacy's, 151 West 34th Street, Manhattan; (212) 868- 3001, patinagroup.com. SARABETH'S Lord & Taylor, 424 Fifth Avenue, at 38th Street, fifth floor restaurant and sixth floor cafe; (212) 827-5068, (212) 391-3015, sarabeth.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Annie Mallin, far left, and her mother, Chris Mallin, both of Connecticut, at BG Restaurant, which overlooks Fifth Avenue and Central Park from the seventh floor of Bergdorf Goodman. Below, diners at Macy's Cellar Bar & Grill, where Macy's memorabilia are displayed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
From left, the B. Altman department store, once home to the Charleston Garden, in 1943
Sarabeth's at Lord & Taylor on Fifth Avenue
and the lobster club sandwich at Fred's at Barneys New York. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BARNEYS NEW YORK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); RETAILERS (89%); TRAINS (85%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (50%)

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (55%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1170 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: The School Lunch Barometer

 BODY:
The economic downturn is driving more and more families into the ranks of the poor and the ''near poor'' who barely make it from paycheck to paycheck. This pattern is chillingly clear from the rising numbers of formerly middle-class children now qualifying for free or low-cost meals under the federally financed school lunch program. 
A recent analysis of federal data by The Times showed that the number of children receiving subsidized lunches rose to 21 million in the last school year from 18 million in 2006-7, a 17 percent increase. During that period, nearly a dozen states -- including Nevada, Florida, Tennessee and New Jersey -- experienced increases of 25 percent or more. In New York City, as of last month, a little more than 62 percent of the city's children were eligible for free lunch -- up from around 57 percent in 2007.
Under federal rules, children from families with incomes up to 130 percent of the poverty level -- $29,055 for a family of four -- are eligible for free meals; those in four-member families that earn up to $41,348 qualify for a reduced-cost lunch. School systems across the country are doing a better job registering needy families for the lunch program, thanks to a 2004 law that requires them to match enrollment lists with lists of welfare and food-stamp recipients. While that has brought in more students, experts say the bad economy is the main factor for the increase.
The federal government spent nearly $11 billion on this program in fiscal 2010 and is likely to spend more in 2011. While critics of safety-net programs will inevitably complain about the cost, the real problem is that so many millions of American children need this help.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); FOOD CHARITIES (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); FOOD STAMPS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1171 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: For a Corn Chip Maker, The New Spokesman Is the Product Itself

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
AT the Fiesta Bowl on Monday, the game's sponsor, Tostitos, will have a new endorser -- a ''spokesbag'' puppet in the form of a chip bag with arms, a mouth and a generous dollop of swagger -- to humorously convey the message that it is the tortilla chip brand that enlivens social gatherings.
The new life-of-the-party campaign resurrects the top-selling snack's 1990s theme. '' 'Tostitos Knows How to Party' means we are returning to our roots,'' said Janelle Anderson, the brand's senior director for marketing. Tostitos, along with Lay's, Cheetos, Doritos, Fritos and Ruffles, is a product of PepsiCo's Frito-Lay division, based in Plano, Tex. 
Tostitos returned to the '90s theme after marketing research over the last year found that its customers wanted reasons to celebrate and have fun in economically lean times.
''We've always been about social and about connection,'' Ms. Anderson said. ''And, as the economy is changing, we are evolving, and wanted to strengthen our fun and uplifting image.''
Tostitos chose a zany character ''to get the message across and make it authentic,'' said Ms. Anderson. ''We wanted something that was magnetic, fun and approachable.''
The brand's new advertising agency, TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the Omnicom Group, decided to ''bring personality to the brand, and, in one of those rare cases, have the actual product be the actual spokesperson,'' said Brett Craig, the group's creative director for Tostitos.
Working with Legacy Effects, a Los Angeles special effects company, the agency developed the hand-manipulated puppet with movable parts and special effects to convey energy, said Mr. Craig.
The custom puppet appears in two 30-second commercials, the first of which is called ''Life of the Football Party,'' where its boasting grabs the attention of friends at a football-watching party. The second, ''Inspired to Dip,'' comically tracks the chip's compatibility with dips.
Tostitos will present one spot during the Rose Bowl on Monday, then five commercials will be shown before and during the 41st Tostitos Fiesta Bowl, where Oklahoma State is playing Stanford at the University of Phoenix Stadium. Last year, Tostitos presented only three spots during the college football matchup.
Its ads also will be shown on cable channels, including Bravo, Lifetime and Food Network, for 10 months, and on local stations and ESPN during the football season. Last year, Tostitos spent $34.5 million on advertising, Kantar Media research found. The brand spent $26.8 million for the first nine months of this year compared to $29.6 million for the same period in 2010, according to Kantar Media.
Tostitos plans to ramp up its spending in 2012, Ms. Anderson said. She did not provide specifics except to say that the brand would nearly double its digital buy.
The energetic chip character will be on the Tostitos Facebook page as well as in banner ads, she said, but noted that ''television is still the foundation of our campaign.''
''This is a competitive market, with chips alone being about $2 billion,'' she said. Shipments of tortilla chips and similar corn products like curls reached $5.3 billion in 2007, according to United States Census Bureau figures. Dips are a separate category.
Marketers first focused Tostitos, introduced in 1981, around the idea of escape. ''It was a trendy new Mexican food that, over the years, became mainstream,'' Ms. Anderson said.
Since then, Tostitos has expanded to about a dozen varieties, like Fire-Roasted Chipotle and Hint of Lime, and varied its marketing approach. After the social connections theme in the '90s, the brand introduced its Scoops chips in 2000, and shifted its focus to everyday social occasions and then to highlighting the ingredients in its chips.
In particular, the brand emphasized that its ingredients -- corn, oil and salt -- were natural, as consumers became more focused on the content and calories of packaged snacks.
While Tostitos sales have slipped in recent years, the Tostitos Natural variety had the highest sales gains last year of PepsiCo's brands, according to Mintel Group's March 2011 salty snacks report. When final sales figures are tallied for this year, sales of tortilla chips over all are expected to pick up and continue to grow to a $6 billion market in 2015, according to Mintel.
Tostitos, which switched advertising agencies last summer, has moved away from its earlier theme that technology brings people together. During the Fiesta Bowl's halftime last January, the brand sponsored surprise reunions between returning soldiers and their families.
This month, Tostitos introduced its latest campaign with an event, ''Tostitos Fiesta in the Square,'' which converted an area in New York's Times Square to a regulation-size football end zone and invited fans to a field goal kicking contest.
The singer and television personality Nick Lachey and football notables like Jim Kelly, the former Buffalo Bills quarterback who is in the Hall of Fame, were in the event, which set a world record with 181 field goals kicked in six hours.
As a result, Tostitos pledged a $200,000 donation to the charity Big Brothers Big Sisters and started an online drive for fans to donate to the charity on facebook.com/Tostitos or bbbs.org/Tostitos until Jan. 31.
Highlights from the event will be shown at halftime at the Fiesta Bowl, and Tostitos plans to give the charity a check for $200,000 along with a matching sum, up to $25,000, for any online donations.
Tostitos has been associated with gatherings to watch televised sports, with sales surging around football and summer seasons, and wants to expand its consumer base to make its chips a must-have at small and large gatherings, said Ms. Anderson.
''The majority of our customers purchase Tostitos between five and 10 times a year,'' she noted, with a spike in the first two months of the year, then around Memorial Day to Labor Day.
The adoption of a party-theme campaign, she said, ''is a return to our heritage.''
Online Correction: December 29, 2011, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article mistakenly said the Rose Bowl would be played New Year's Day. It will be played Monday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In a television spot, the zany Tostitos ''spokesbag,'' a hand-manipulated puppet, watches the Fiesta Bowl college football game with friends. The character recalls his old playing days and does a touchdown dance. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); SNACK FOODS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (74%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); SPECIAL EFFECTS (63%); POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (63%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (60%); CABLE TELEVISION (60%)

COMPANY: FRITO-LAY INC (90%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); TBWA/CHIAT/DAY INC (66%); PEPSICO INC (56%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (84%); PEP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (90%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1172 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Finding the Cleanup Crew After a Messy Hack Attack

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

 BODY:
In the film ''Pulp Fiction,'' Harvey Keitel plays the Wolf, a fast-talking and meticulous man who is called in to deal with the aftermath of an accidental shooting.
In the messy world of computer security breaches, Kevin Mandia is something like the Wolf. Mr. Mandia has spent his entire career cleaning up problems much like the recent breach at Stratfor, the security group based in Austin, Tex., that was hacked over the Christmas weekend.
Hackers claiming to be members of the collective known as Anonymous defaced Stratfor's Web site and published over 50,000 of its customers' credit card numbers online. They have threatened to release more card details and a trove of 3.3 million e-mails between Stratfor and its clients, which include Goldman Sachs, the Defense Department, Los Alamos National Laboratory and the United Nations. 
That means Stratfor is in the position of trying to recover from a potentially devastating attack without knowing whether the worst is over.
''They're in a bad place,'' said Mr. Mandia, who is not involved in the Stratfor case. ''If the attacker is going to release their e-mails, there's no way to shut them down.''
Stratfor joins a list of other hapless prominent organizations that have recently been breached by so-called hacktivists -- hackers whose goal is to embarrass and expose them. Among its predecessors are Sony, the security company HBGary and the Arizona Department of Public Safety.
Unlike extortion cases, in which hackers typically demand a fee for not disclosing specific proprietary information, attacks by hacktivists put companies in a potentially more precarious and vulnerable waiting mode. The companies do not know precisely what has been stolen, how destructive its disclosure will be, when it will be dumped online or even whether the hackers are still roaming through their internal networks. All the while, they must reassure anxious clients and try to minimize the inevitable public relations fallout.
''We call it a three-alarm fire,'' said Jamie May, chief investigator at Debix, the identity protection company that was hired by Sony after its breach earlier this year.
''It's easy for companies to get ahead of themselves and rush into bad decisions that make a situation worse,'' she said, ''which is why it is often helpful to work with a company that has done this before.''
The breach at Stratfor, which markets its security expertise, could be particularly embarrassing if hackers can prove their claims that they were able to gain access to the company's sensitive data because it was not encrypted -- a basic first step in data protection.
Stratfor has not clarified whether its data was encrypted, and did not respond to requests for comment. With its Web site still down, the company has been using its Facebook page to share updates about matters like its offer of identity-theft protection for customers. But some customers have left comments on the page complaining that they did not hear directly from Stratfor about the breach, and found out that their card information was compromised only when their banks notified them of unauthorized charges.
Mr. Mandia's computer security and forensics firm, Mandiant, has responded to breaches, extortion attacks and economic espionage campaigns at 22 companies in the Fortune 100 in the last two years alone, Mr. Mandia said. He calls the first hour he spends with companies ''upchuck hour.''
''I need to get as much data as I can get. I come in and say 'Get me your firewall logs. Give me your Web logs. Tell me what you know so far. Who do you think might have done this? Give me your e-mails,' '' he said. ''Everybody's vomiting information on a table. It's never pretty and it's always unstructured.''
Time is of the essence. ''Every minute you take to figure this out, you could be losing more e-mails and more credit data,'' he said. The goal is to determine quickly the ''fingerprint'' of the intrusion and its scope, Mr. Mandia said: ''How did the guy break in? What did he take? When did he break in? And, how do I stop this?''
The first thing a forensics team will do is try to get the hackers off the company's network, which entails simultaneously plugging any security holes, removing any back doors into the company's network that the intruders might have installed, and changing all the company's passwords.
''This is something most people fail at,'' Mr. Mandia said. ''It's like removing cancer. You have to remove it all at once. If you only remove the cancer in your leg, but you have it in your arm, you might as well have not had the operation on your leg.''
Likewise, if a company misses one back door or one compromised password, the intruders can immediately come back in.
Once the network has been secured, a forensics team will comb through a company's data to determine the impact of the breach, so it can begin notifying affected customers, determine its liability and try to get ahead of the news cycle.
But in a hacktivist case like Stratfor's, in which hackers are threatening to disburse more credit card details and sensitive correspondence, Mr. Mandia said there comes a point when ''you just have to sit back and hope.''
''If anybody was any good at preventing leaks, we would have never seen WikiLeaks,'' Mr. Mandia said. ''The U.S. government would have stopped it and that data would never have been dumped.''
Meanwhile, Stratfor's hackers have taken to Twitter to announce that they plan to release more Stratfor data over the next several days.
That may offer at least one possible silver lining. In the world of computer security, experts say, the most dangerous breaches are the quiet ones -- the ones in which hackers make off with a company's intellectual property and leave no trace.
''The hacks that do the most damage,'' Mr. Mandia said, ''don't have Twitter feeds.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CRIME (90%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (89%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (89%); DATA SECURITY (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); SHOOTINGS (77%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (76%); INFORMATION WARFARE (76%); IDENTITY SECURITY (72%); EXTORTION (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (72%) TEXAS, USA (90%); NEW MEXICO, USA (71%); ARIZONA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1173 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Sorrow for Filene's End Doesn't Stop Bargain Hunt

BYLINE: By JESS BIDGOOD

 BODY:
BOSTON -- On the final day of the farewell sale at Filene's Basement on Boylston Street here, Andrew Eisenmann made a funereal trip from the store to his double-parked car, pushing a clothing rack he had just purchased for $40.
The signs over the doors at the last Filene's Basement to close in Boston -- screaming ''80-90% OFF!'' and ''1 DAYS LEFT!'' -- laid bare the end of an era: The country's oldest discount retailer is closing its stores for good this week, leaving behind a string of bankruptcies and an immense hole in this city where the chain's flagship store used to be. 
To Mr. Eisenmann, the director for student affairs at Harvard School of Public Health, the Basement was the place to find the best deals in the city, especially on high-end brands, ''if you had the patience and the time.''
He and his wife, Laura, had stopped here over the weekend, making a game of hunting down items for 10 percent of their original prices; she found a pair of Missoni boots. They came back Thursday because they needed a place to put it all, plucking the rack from the elephant graveyard of empty ones that are a threadbare monument to bankrupt retailers' final days.
''We have purchased so many things from Filene's Basement over the years that we're going to use it for temporary storage,'' Mr. Eisenmann said. Inside the store, checkout lines snaked through an expanse that had once been a jungle of clothing, curving around the remaining oases of deeply discounted jeans, evening gowns and children's clothes. Tangles of people flipped through hangers like they were pages of a magazine, occasionally glancing up at charts converting original prices to 80-percent reductions.
Nicole Insalaco, a research officer in Cambridge, had pulled her own rack to a corner of the second floor, and filled it with clothing for her family members and herself, which she tried on in front of her companion, Richard Rivera-Massa. ''Can't return it, might as well get a second opinion,'' she said with a laugh.
She and Mr. Rivera-Massa said they had been sadder about the loss of the flagship Filene's Basement, in the Downtown Crossing shopping area of Boston. Its building was sold and demolished several years ago and has been informally memorialized with the giant hole, a staging ground for a construction project that stalled in the recession.
''This ring I got from there,'' said Mr. Rivera-Massa, holding up his right hand.
''I'm wearing underwear from there!'' Ms. Insalaco said.
Still, she was determined to take advantage of some of the cheapest bargains ever offered at a store renowned for them.
Yevgeniya Zayonts of Brookline, Mass., waited for her neighbor, Alexandra Maso, by an escalator. They had made a date here to spend the last $20 of their store credit. ''Our last wish!'' Ms. Zayonts said. With Filene's Basement gone, she said, she will probably start shopping at secondhand stores.
But Mr. Rivera-Massa was not too choked up about the prospect of losing the Basement. ''No, not me,'' he said. He was already eyeing the Marshalls across the street.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 31, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Friday about the closing of a discount retailer in Boston misstated the name of the store in the headline and in some references. The store is Filene's Basement, not simply Filene's. (Filene's Basement was opened in 1909 in the basement of Filene's department store in Boston. The two became separate companies in 1991. Federated Department Stores acquired the Filene's department stores in 2005 and closed some and converted the remaining stores to Macy's in 2006.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN YANG/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); FAMILY (73%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (72%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (72%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); CONSTRUCTION (60%)

COMPANY: FILENE'S BASEMENT INC (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2011



1174 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Promising Signs in Job Growth and Home Sales Lift Shares

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Better news on home sales and improved prospects for job growth sent stocks higher on Wall Street on Thursday.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 136 points, nearly making up its 140-point loss from the day before. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index edged back into the black for 2011, with just one day of trading left in the year. 
The four-week average of unemployment claims fell to a three-and-a-half-year low, an indication that hiring could pick up. Also, the number of Americans who signed contracts to buy homes in November rose more than 7 percent to the highest level in a year and a half, according to the National Association of Realtors.
Quincy Krosby, Prudential Financial's market strategist, said the reports were encouraging signals for the economy going in to 2012.
''The correlation between jobs and housing has been crystal-clear this year,'' Ms. Krosby said. ''Parts of the country where jobs are more plentiful are the ones where the housing market has held up.''
She said that the correlation became more pronounced after the real estate bust, when lenders became reluctant to even consider customers for a mortgage unless they held jobs.
For instance, Boston's 1.1 percent drop in home prices since last year was one of the lowest among metro areas tracked by S.& P./Case-Shiller index. The city's unemployment rate is 6.2 percent, much lower than the national average of 8.6 percent.
The positive housing news sent the stocks of home builders sharply higher. Masco Corporation rose 8.4 percent and PulteGroup rose 6 percent.
The Dow closed at 12,287.04, a gain of 135.63 points, or 1.1 percent. For the year, the Dow is up 709 points, or 6 percent.
The S.& P. 500 rose 13.38 points, or 1.07 percent, to 1,263.02. That is just six points above where the index started the year.
The Nasdaq composite rose 23.76 points, 0.92 percent, to 2,613.74.
Chesapeake Midstream Partners, a natural gas systems operator, rose 5 percent after it agreed to acquire Chesapeake Energy's pipeline business.
Sears Holdings fell 1 percent two days after it said it was closing over 100 stores nationwide.
The euro fell to its lowest level against the dollar in more than a year and its lowest against the Japanese yen in a decade. The euro went as low as $1.28 versus the dollar, its weakest since September 2010.
Investors continued to be worried that Italy's 10-year borrowing rate remained uncomfortably close to 7 percent, a level that economists consider unsustainable. Greece, Ireland and Portugal all had to seek relief from their creditors after their 10-year bond yields rose above 7 percent.
Italy paid 6.98 percent on a 10-year bond auction where it raised $3.3 billion. That was lower than the 7.56 percent it had to pay at an equivalent auction last month, but not low enough to assuage investors.
The Treasury's 10-year note rose 6/32, to 100 29/32. The yield fell to 1.90 percent, from 1.92 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); PROPERTY PURCHASE AGREEMENTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); BOND MARKETS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (70%); HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (65%); CITY LIFE (64%); CITIES (64%)

COMPANY: MASCO CORP (66%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (56%); PULTEGROUP INC (53%); ACCESS MIDSTREAM PARTNERS LP (52%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%)

TICKER: MAS (NYSE) (66%); PRU (NYSE) (56%); PHM (NYSE) (53%); ACMP (NYSE) (52%); SHLD (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS337110 WOOD KITCHEN CABINET & COUNTERTOP MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS332913 PLUMBING FIXTURE FITTING & TRIM MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS238350 FINISH CARPENTRY CONTRACTORS (66%); NAICS238310 DRYWALL & INSULATION CONTRACTORS (66%); NAICS238220 PLUMBING, HEATING & AIR-CONDITIONING CONTRACTORS (66%); SIC1742 PLASTERING, DRYWALL, ACOUSTICAL, & INSULATION WORK (66%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (56%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (53%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (53%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (53%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (53%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (52%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (51%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (51%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (51%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (65%); GREECE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1175 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: Wall St. Can't Carry the City

 BODY:
To the Editor:
We strongly agree with the sentiment in ''Wall Street Meets Reality'' (editorial, Dec. 28) that New York City must broaden its tax base and diversify its economy beyond Wall Street. 
To this end the City Council has been working on initiatives aimed at identifying and supporting emerging sectors and helping those that already exist grow. To support our tech sector, we created a tax credit for biotech companies, established NYC Tech Connect in conjunction with the Partnership for New York City and are convening local academic institutions and tech industry stakeholders to create work-force and economic development partnerships to support the sector's growth.
The city must do better at recognizing and capitalizing upon its competitive advantages -- one of which is our entrepreneurial spirit. This is why the City Council is working with the Center for Family Life in Sunset Park to jump-start the creation of employee-owned businesses in low-income communities. We have also committed ourselves to increasing the goods and services the city exports by targeting our strong base of food manufacturers and green service and technology providers.
By doing more with what we already have, we can create good jobs across a variety of industries and reduce the city's reliance on the financial sector. While this sector is critical to our local economy, it would be foolish to put all of our proverbial eggs into one basket.
CHRISTINE C. QUINN KAREN KOSLOWITZ New York, Dec. 28, 2011
The writers are, respectively, speaker of the New York City Council and chairwoman of its Economic Development Committee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); FAMILY (72%); TAX LAW (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (56%); FOOD MFG (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1176 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Keynes Was Right

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
''The boom, not the slump, is the right time for austerity at the Treasury.'' So declared John Maynard Keynes in 1937, even as F.D.R. was about to prove him right by trying to balance the budget too soon, sending the United States economy -- which had been steadily recovering up to that point -- into a severe recession. Slashing government spending in a depressed economy depresses the economy further; austerity should wait until a strong recovery is well under way.
Unfortunately, in late 2010 and early 2011, politicians and policy makers in much of the Western world believed that they knew better, that we should focus on deficits, not jobs, even though our economies had barely begun to recover from the slump that followed the financial crisis. And by acting on that anti-Keynesian belief, they ended up proving Keynes right all over again. 
In declaring Keynesian economics vindicated I am, of course, at odds with conventional wisdom. In Washington, in particular, the failure of the Obama stimulus package to produce an employment boom is generally seen as having proved that government spending can't create jobs. But those of us who did the math realized, right from the beginning, that the Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (more than a third of which, by the way, took the relatively ineffective form of tax cuts) was much too small given the depth of the slump. And we also predicted the resulting political backlash.
So the real test of Keynesian economics hasn't come from the half-hearted efforts of the U.S. federal government to boost the economy, which were largely offset by cuts at the state and local levels. It has, instead, come from European nations like Greece and Ireland that had to impose savage fiscal austerity as a condition for receiving emergency loans -- and have suffered Depression-level economic slumps, with real G.D.P. in both countries down by double digits.
This wasn't supposed to happen, according to the ideology that dominates much of our political discourse. In March 2011, the Republican staff of Congress's Joint Economic Committee released a report titled ''Spend Less, Owe Less, Grow the Economy.'' It ridiculed concerns that cutting spending in a slump would worsen that slump, arguing that spending cuts would improve consumer and business confidence, and that this might well lead to faster, not slower, growth.
They should have known better even at the time: the alleged historical examples of ''expansionary austerity'' they used to make their case had already been thoroughly debunked. And there was also the embarrassing fact that many on the right had prematurely declared Ireland a success story, demonstrating the virtues of spending cuts, in mid-2010, only to see the Irish slump deepen and whatever confidence investors might have felt evaporate.
Amazingly, by the way, it happened all over again this year. There were widespread proclamations that Ireland had turned the corner, proving that austerity works -- and then the numbers came in, and they were as dismal as before.
Yet the insistence on immediate spending cuts continued to dominate the political landscape, with malign effects on the U.S. economy. True, there weren't major new austerity measures at the federal level, but there was a lot of ''passive'' austerity as the Obama stimulus faded out and cash-strapped state and local governments continued to cut.
Now, you could argue that Greece and Ireland had no choice about imposing austerity, or, at any rate, no choices other than defaulting on their debts and leaving the euro. But another lesson of 2011 was that America did and does have a choice; Washington may be obsessed with the deficit, but financial markets are, if anything, signaling that we should borrow more.
Again, this wasn't supposed to happen. We entered 2011 amid dire warnings about a Greek-style debt crisis that would happen as soon as the Federal Reserve stopped buying bonds, or the rating agencies ended our triple-A status, or the superdupercommittee failed to reach a deal, or something. But the Fed ended its bond-purchase program in June; Standard & Poor's downgraded America in August; the supercommittee deadlocked in November; and U.S. borrowing costs just kept falling. In fact, at this point, inflation-protected U.S. bonds pay negative interest: investors are willing to pay America to hold their money.
The bottom line is that 2011 was a year in which our political elite obsessed over short-term deficits that aren't actually a problem and, in the process, made the real problem -- a depressed economy and mass unemployment -- worse.
The good news, such as it is, is that President Obama has finally gone back to fighting against premature austerity -- and he seems to be winning the political battle. And one of these years we might actually end up taking Keynes's advice, which is every bit as valid now as it was 75 years ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICS (89%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); DEPRESSION (71%); TAX LAW (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (92%); GREECE (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1177 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Samoa Sacrifices a Day for Its Future

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

 BODY:
The Pacific island nation of Samoa and its even tinier neighbor Tokelau are skipping Friday this week, jumping westward in time across the international date line and into the shifting economic balance of the 21st century.
The time change, officially decided in June, is meant to align Samoa with its Asian trading partners; it moves the islands' work days further from the United States, which dominated its economy in the past.
In this giant-step version of daylight saving time, the island's 186,000 citizens, and the 1,500 who live in Tokelau, will go to sleep on Thursday and wake up on Saturday. The government has decreed that those who miss a day of work on Friday will be paid all the same. 
Samoa has been out of alignment with its Asian-Pacific neighbors since 1892, when American traders persuaded it in 1892 to shift from the western side to the eastern side of the international date line to facilitate business with the West Coast of the United States. That earlier shift took place on the American Independence Day -- so the Samoans could celebrate July 4 twice. This one takes place at the stroke of midnight, so that two minutes after 11:59 p.m. on Dec. 29, it will be 12:01 a.m. on Dec. 31. The new time zone will put Samoa 3 hours ahead of eastern Australia rather than 21 hours behind it, and 22 hours ahead of California, instead of 2 hours behind it.
The prime minister of Samoa, Tuila'epa Sailele Malielegaoi, acknowledged the new distance from the American orbit but said the move would make it much easier to do business with Australia and New Zealand, whose economies are linked increasingly with the rest of Asia, particularly China.
''In doing business with New Zealand and Australia, we're losing out on two working days a week,'' Mr. Tuila'epa said. ''While it's Friday here, it's Saturday in New Zealand, and when we're at church on Sunday, they're already conducting business in Sydney and Brisbane.''
''Today,'' the statement said bluntly, ''we do a lot more business with New Zealand and Australia, China and Pacific Rim countries such as Singapore.''
Two years ago Samoa took a step to align itself with Australia and New Zealand, putting drivers on the left side of the road rather than the right. The prime minister said the change would make it easier for Samoans in those neighboring nations to send used cars home to their relatives.
Shifting time by decree is not a new phenomenon in the Pacific. At the recent turn of the century, in a bid to be the first to greet the dawn in what was called the new millennium, Pacific island nations engaged in a free-for all of shifting time zones, date lines and daylight saving times.
The date line, created at an international convention in 1884, is an imaginary line drawn roughly north to south along the 180-degree meridian, zigging and zagging here and there to accommodate the needs and demands of the nations along its route.
Moving westward across the date line, a traveler loses a day, moving to a point where it is 24 hours later. Moving eastward, a day is gained.
As the year 2000 approached, the island nation of Kiribati (32 atolls and one coral island) unilaterally extended the date line in a 1,000-mile loop to embrace its easternmost outcropping, Caroline Island. Tonga and Fiji introduced daylight saving time to move their clocks an hour ahead.
''There seems to be no legal reason why any country cannot declare itself to be in whatever time zone it likes,'' said the Royal Observatory at Greenwich, the international arbiter of official time, in a premillennium statement.
The Samoan prime minister insisted that this week's hop across the date line was prompted solely by economic realities and that it had nothing to do with a bid to be the first place in the world to greet the new year in 2012.
American Samoa, less than 100 miles to the east of Samoa, is not making the switch.

GRAPHIC: MAP: To put time on its side, Samoa will make a leap across the international date line, aligning the island with its Pacific neighbors. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US INDEPENDENCE DAY (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); MILLENNIUM (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRISBANE, AUSTRALIA (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA (79%) SAMOA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRALIA (95%); ASIA (94%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (94%); NEW ZEALAND (94%); TOKELAU (93%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1178 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WORKING FOR LESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1670 words

HEADLINE: Factory Jobs Gain, but Wages Retreat

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- Manufacturers are hiring again in America, softening a long slide in factory employment. But for a new generation of blue-collar workers, even those protected by unions, the price of employment is likely to be lower wages stretching to retirement.
That is particularly true of global manufacturers like General Electric. With labor costs moving down at its appliance factories here, the company is bringing home the production of water heaters as well as some refrigerators, and expanding its work force to do so.
The wages for the new hires, however, are $10 to $15 an hour less than the pay scale for hourly employees already on staff -- with the additional concession that the newcomers will not catch up for the foreseeable future. Such union-endorsed contracts are also showing up in the auto industry, at steel and tire companies, and at manufacturers of farm implements and other heavy equipment, according to Gordon Pavy, president of the Labor and Employment Relations Association and, until recently, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s director of collective bargaining. 
''Some companies want to keep work here, or bring it back from Asia,'' Mr. Pavy said, ''but in order to do that they have to be competitive in the final prices of their products, and one way to be competitive is to lower the compensation of their American workers.''
The shrunken pay scale for newcomers -- $12 to $19 an hour versus $21 to $32 an hour for longtime workers -- threatens to undo the middle-class status of even the best-paid blue-collar jobs still left in manufacturing. A similar contract limits the wages of new hires at a nearby Ford Motor Company stamping plant, but neither G.E.'s 2,000 hourly workers nor Ford's 2,900, nor their unions nor the mayor, Greg Fischer, have objected.
Quite the contrary, all argue that job creation must take precedence over holding the line on wages, given that the unemployment rate in this Ohio River city is above 9 percent and several thousand people apply for every unfilled, $13-an-hour factory job. ''The trade-off is absolutely worth it,'' Mayor Fischer said, arguing that while the city is actively subsidizing G.E.'s expansion here, mainly through tax rebates, that is not enough. ''You must have a globally competitive wage to create jobs,'' the mayor insisted.
The generational setback implicit in a ''globally competitive wage'' is evident at G.E.'s Appliance Park, the complex of factories where G.E. makes refrigerators, washing machines, dishwashers and other household appliances. Six years into the adoption of lower wages for new hires, half of the hourly workers are paid at the reduced scale.
In an earlier era, that would have been a source of friction, perhaps protest. Now it isn't, and in an interview William Masden, 62, earning $31.78 an hour after 42 years at Appliance Park, attempted an explanation. The younger workers still get annual raises, he noted, and by the time they top out, he and his peers -- the oldest baby boomers -- ''won't be here any longer to remind them of what they are missing.''
Linda Thomas, 37, one of the first to be hired in 2005 under the new arrangement, amends that explanation. Her hourly wage, $18.19, has almost topped out, although it is nearly $14 an hour less than Mr. Masden's. But she keeps silent. Too many unemployed people, she explained, would clamor for her job and her wage if she were to protest.
''You don't want to rock the boat,'' Ms. Thomas said. ''You take a chance on losing everything you have if you do.''
Mr. Masden's final years at G.E., doing safety checks, and Ms. Thomas's willingness, however reluctant, to do equivalent work as a forklift driver at a much lower wage illustrate a big reason that General Electric decided to expand production here. A new hybrid electric water heater will be manufactured in Louisville in a factory now being renovated, rather than in China, where G.E. makes its current model. And some production of refrigerators is being repatriated, mainly from Mexico.
''We have gotten to a point where making things in America is as viable as making things any place in the world,'' said James P. Campbell, president and chief executive of G.E.'s appliances and lighting division, citing the drop in labor costs as a crucial reason. ''They are significantly less with the competitive wage,'' he said, ''and that is a big help.''
The revival is in an early stage. By 2005, G.E.'s employment in Louisville had fallen to 2,300 hourly workers from a high of 17,000 in the 1970s. At that point, with the company insisting on concessions, Local 761 of the IUE-CWA union, representing the hourly factory workers, agreed to the lower wage scale for new hires. The union has ratified it in subsequent contracts.
Employment, in turn, has finally stopped falling and is beginning to inch up from a low of 2,000 early this year as new hires start to come aboard faster than older workers leave. But the new people are always at the lower wage scale, except for some specialists -- like machinists, who earn up to $26 an hour.
''We are getting from the company an $800 million investment in Appliance Park over the next two years, and what we had to do for that investment was accept the 'competitive wage,' '' said Jerry Carney, president of Local 761.
Even so, G.E.'s work force in America is slightly smaller than its work force overseas -- 133,000 to 154,000. Nearly 80 percent of those in America are in manufacturing, reflecting G.E.'s origins and still its greatest strength. It has 219 factories in this country and 16 more are being built or renovated, including two in Louisville. An additional 230 G.E. plants are overseas, which helps to explain why 53 percent of the company's $150.2 billion in revenue last year -- from all sources -- was generated abroad, up from 35 percent a decade ago.
Mr. Carney's competitive wage -- a euphemism that G.E. officials also use -- is really, as both sides acknowledge, the price of halting or at least slowing this migration. It is, in effect, the lower tier of a two-tier system first introduced in the 1980s. That system limited those consigned to the lower tier to 20 percent of a company's work force. In addition, new hires eventually advanced to the higher tier. Bonuses and profit sharing eased the pain, and they still do, but for a new generation of workers, graduation to the upper tier is disappearing, and the lower tier is becoming a new hire's lifetime wage scale.
''My hope is that we will rebuild wages to their old levels over time as the economy strengthens and the demand for workers rises,'' said Thomas A. Kochan, a management expert at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''But that is by no means a certainty.''
Neither the nation's unions nor the government has tracked the number of jobs downgraded to the equivalent of a lower-tier wage scale, or the number of people who, like Ms. Thomas, have gone through the experience of a downgrade: in her case, from $19 an hour at the Ford auto body stamping plant -- until she was laid off in 2005 -- to a starting wage at G.E. a few months later of $12 an hour.
''At the time I was very angry about the comedown,'' she said, ''but then I asked a couple of others who had gone through the same experience how they felt and they said, 'We're thankful to have a job.' ''
The decline in unit labor costs is striking. In manufacturing, the wages and benefits invested in each unit of production have fallen in eight of the past 10 years, a net decline of 13.6 percentage points, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports. Productivity played a role -- modern factories require fewer workers. Still, the decline is the greatest in such a short time since the statistic was first tracked in 1951.
In China, in sharp contrast, unit labor costs in manufacturing have risen in recent years, which means the gap between the United States and China, while still great, is nevertheless narrowing slightly -- one reason that G.E. is making its new water heater here instead of there.
''We are at an inflection point in manufacturing in terms of relative cost structures,'' said Mark M. Zandi, chief economist for Moody's Analytics. ''Ten years ago, it was a no-brainer to locate in China, and now it isn't so clear whether China is the low-cost place to produce.''
The downshift in wages, however, is not G.E.'s only explanation for the rise in domestic production. In interviews, G.E. executives put almost as much emphasis on ''lean manufacturing.'' Production workers on a lean factory floor are encouraged to point out inefficiencies in assembly line routines and to participate in altering the routines.
Given the productivity gains implicit in lean practices, G.E. envisions a growing hourly work force at Appliance Park, but one that comes nowhere near its size in the 1970s.
''The trade-off is absolutely worth it; the alternatives are $15 an hour or zero dollars an hour,'' Mayor Fischer said.
Mr. Masden, divorced with two grown daughters, and Ms. Thomas, single and childless, reluctantly accept this view. He wonders if the next generation will ever make it into the middle class, as he did. ''I never had to think about pay,'' he said. ''I just kept putting money in my pocket.''
Ms. Thomas doubts that her pay will rise above the $19 an hour she had earned at the Ford plant before her layoff. Two older sisters still employed there are similarly worried.
''They were making $22 an hour and they are now making $15 an hour,'' Ms. Thomas said, referring to a concessionary United Automobile Workers agreement. ''They were totally upset. But the alternative offered by the company was cut the wage scale or close the plant.''
WORKING FOR LESS: Articles in this series are examining how new workers are being hired at lower pay and benefits.
Online Correction: December 29, 2011, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article said that General Electric's employment in America was slightly greater than that overseas.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William Masden, left, a G.E. employee, with Jerry Carney, president of IUE-CWA Local 761. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGELA SHOEMAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) CHART: Slowing Wage Growth: Hourly wages in manufacturing have levelled off in recent years. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE METAL STAMPING (78%); MAJOR APPLIANCE MFG (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); TIRES (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT RELATIONS ASSOCIATION (56%); AFL-CIO (55%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (92%) KENTUCKY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1179 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: A Growing San Antonio Shakes Off Sleepy Label

BYLINE: By MORGAN SMITH. 
msmith@texastribune.org

 BODY:
SAN ANTONIO -- In 2008, after 15 years as the Alamo City's largest corporate resident, AT& T announced it was moving its headquarters to Dallas -- and taking 700 executives along with it. In the past, that San Antonio's first Fortune 500 company had outgrown its home might have seemed an insurmountable blow for this city with a pre-existing inferiority complex. But these days, it is not easy to shake the city's confidence.
In the last decade, companies have flocked to San Antonio, making it an economic center rivaling Houston and Dallas. With that business expansion has come energetic population growth: according to United States Census numbers, in the past 10 years, San Antonio has added more people within its city boundaries than any other major city in the state. It has all attracted demographers' attention, at home and across the nation. 
''San Antonio is sometimes seen as that sleepy southern city of Texas,'' said Steve H. Murdock, a former director of the United States Census Bureau and Texas state demographer. ''If you look at its growth, if you look at its changes in the last two decades, it is a city that may be changing more in nature than the other two larger cities.''
San Antonio recently topped the Milken Institute's annual list of the best-performing cities, a ranking that measures American metropolitan areas based on their ability to create and sustain jobs. The city, which for the past five years has made it to No. 7 among the largest metropolitan areas in the country, has been ''incredibly resilient'' in the economic downturn, said Kevin Klowden, an economist with Milken, a California-based economic think tank.
Houston and Dallas, ranked fourth and ninth respectively among the top cities in the country, have seen their development gradually slow. And the jobs that those cities have added, Mr. Klowden said, have tended to be lower paying. By contrast, San Antonio has attracted high-wage jobs, capitalizing on its booming medical research industry.
''This is San Antonio's finest moment,'' said Henry Cisneros, the city's former mayor and the secretary of housing and urban development in the Clinton administration.
Part of that is good fortune. The 2005 Base Realignment and Closure proposal, which consolidated military bases across the country, has greatly benefited San Antonio's Air Force and Army bases. It has brought more than 10,000 jobs and $13 billion to the city's economy, according to numbers from Joint Base San Antonio, which includes the country's largest military battlefield health and trauma research hospital. That comes as the University of Texas Health Science Center to the north is rapidly growing, adding more than 225 new faculty members a year and deploying more than $230 million in annual research financing.
Mr. Cisneros, who is now the founding chairman of BioMedSA, a nonprofit organization of community and business leaders that promotes medical research in the city, said the current momentum in San Antonio has been a long time in the making -- a result of ''about 40 years of refining and honing economic cooperation.''
He said that in addition to its thriving medical research community, the city is poised to benefit from the South Texas Eagle Ford Shale energy boom, the relocation of Mexican professionals with significant capital to invest, increased tourism because of extensive civic improvements and a growing aerospace industry.
San Antonio aggressively courts the business of top companies. The city is home to the world headquarters of Valero Energy, Clear Channel Communications, USAA and H-E-B supermarkets.
In recent years the city has focused on luring biomedical firms.
InCube, a life sciences research lab, chose San Antonio over Houston and Dallas for its first expansion outside of Silicon Valley. It joins Medtronic, a medical technology company, as two of the latest bioscience firms to move to the city.
Mir Imran, InCube's chairman and chief executive, said that after learning about the medical research institutions, universities and military bases in San Antonio -- and after receiving a $10 million economic incentive grant from the city -- he was sold.
''San Antonio is the best-kept secret in Texas,'' he said. ''I don't think it will stay that way for very long.''
The pending multi-billion dollar reduction in federal military spending triggered by the failure of the Congressional ''supercommittee'' to make a deal on the budget is a possible wrinkle in the rosy prognostications. Lawmakers have vowed to propose legislation to undo the cuts, but no matter what, military spending will most likely fall with the return of American troops from Iraq and Afghanistan.
Mr. Klowden of the Milken Institute said that San Antonio's growth has been diverse enough that it may be able to avoid any debilitating effects from a reduction in federal spending. He added that even as troops return, they will probably be funneled through San Antonio's bases as they head home.
Training an educated workforce, a challenge cited by both Mr. Imran and Mr. Cisneros, may be a more daunting obstacle for a city that has long struggled with high dropout and low college completion rates.
Like cities across Texas, San Antonio is becoming more Hispanic, a group that in Texas has had low educational attainment rates. It is crucial for the city to find ways to reach the undereducated and poor, Mr. Cisneros said.
In the meantime, Mr. Imran acknowledged that he has had to recruit executives from outside San Antonio because he could not find them in the city. But he said it was little struggle to lure employees to live there.
''Once someone comes there for an interview, it's not that difficult to convince them to move there,'' he said. ''The housing market is attractive, and it's a great place to raise a family.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The 252-unit Cevallos Lofts development is one of many new housing ventures that are being built in downtown San Antonio.
 Top, the Tower of the Americas from inside Rosario's Mexican Cafe y Cantina. Bottom, an evening view of the skyline. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENNIFER WHITNEY FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RANKINGS (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); CITIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (84%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CENSUS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); ARMIES (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (60%); AIR FORCES (60%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1180 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUT NOBODY PAYS THAT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1761 words

HEADLINE: Tax Benefits From Options As Windfall for Businesses

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
The stock market's rebound from the financial crisis three years ago has created a potential windfall for hundreds of executives who were granted unusually large packages of stock options shortly after the market collapsed.
Now, the corporations that gave those generous awards are beginning to benefit, too, in the form of tax savings.
Thanks to a quirk in tax law, companies can claim a tax deduction in future years that is much bigger than the value of the stock options when they were granted to executives. This tax break will deprive the federal government of tens of billions of dollars in revenue over the next decade. And it is one of the many obscure provisions buried in the tax code that together enable most American companies to pay far less than the top corporate tax rate of 35 percent -- in some cases, virtually nothing even in very profitable years. 
In Washington, where executive pay and taxes are highly charged issues, some critics in Congress have long sought to eliminate this tax benefit, saying it is bad policy to let companies claim such large deductions for stock options without having to make any cash outlay. Moreover, they say, the policy essentially forces taxpayers to subsidize executive pay, which has soared in recent decades. Those drawbacks have been magnified, they say, now that executives -- and companies -- are reaping inordinate benefits by taking advantage of once depressed stock prices.
A stock option entitles its owner to buy a share of company stock at a set price over a specified period. The corporate tax savings stem from the fact that executives typically cash in stock options at a much higher price than the initial value that companies report to shareholders when they are granted.
But companies are then allowed a tax deduction for that higher price.
For example, in the dark days of June 2009, Mel Karmazin, chief executive of SiriusXM Radio, was granted options to buy the company stock at 43 cents a share. At today's price of about $1.80 a share, the value of those options has risen to $165 million from the $35 million reported by the company as a compensation expense when they were issued.
If he exercises and sells at that price, Mr. Karmazin would, of course, owe taxes on the $165 million as ordinary income. The company, meanwhile, would be entitled to deduct the $165 million as additional compensation on its tax return as if it had paid that amount in cash. That could reduce its federal tax bill by an estimated $57 million, at the top corporate tax rate.
SiriusXM did not respond to repeated requests for comment.
Dozens of other major corporations doled out unusually large grants of stock options in late 2008 and 2009 -- including Ford, General Electric, Goldman Sachs, Google and Starbucks -- and soon may be eligible for corresponding tax breaks.
Executive compensation experts say that barring another market collapse, the payouts to executives -- and tax benefits for the companies -- will run well into the billions of dollars in the coming years. Indeed, of the billions of shares worth of options issued after the crisis, only about 11 million have thus far been exercised, according to data compiled by InsiderScore, a consulting firm that compiles regulatory filings on insider stock sales.
''These options gave executives a highly leveraged bet that stock prices would rebound from their 2008 and 2009 lows, and are now rewarding them for rising tides rather than performance,'' said Robert J. Jackson Jr., an associate professor of law at Columbia who worked as an adviser to the office that oversaw compensation of executives at companies receiving federal bailout money. ''The tax code does nothing to ensure that these rewards go only to executives who have created sustainable long-term value.''
For some companies, awarding stock options can seem like a tempting bargain, since there is no cash outlay and the tax benefits can exceed the original cost.
Under standard accounting rules, companies calculate the fair market value of the options on the date they are granted and report that value as an expense, disclosed in regulatory filings. But the Internal Revenue Service allows companies to claim a tax deduction for any increase in value when those options are exercised, usually years later at a much higher price. The tax savings are listed in regulatory filings as ''excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation.''
For most companies, the primary advantage of using options is that options allow them to award large bonuses without actually depleting their cash, said Alan J. Straus, a New York tax lawyer and accountant. ''But the tax treatment is a nice bonus,'' he said. ''It's the only form of compensation where a company can get a deduction without having to come up with cash.''
Some corporate watchdog groups, and a few members of Congress, call the corporate tax deduction an expensive loophole.
Many tax lawyers and accountants counter that the tax deduction is justifiable because the options represent a real cost to the company. And because the executives who exercise their options are taxed at high individual rates, the companies say that a change would result in an unfair form of double taxation.
Yet even those who support the existing tax policy say it was opportunistic for executives to avail themselves of big increases in stock options -- which are supposed to be a performance-based reward -- when a marketwide collapse meant that most companies' stock price seemed destined to go up.
The increases in the value of options granted during the financial crisis would not just cost the Treasury. Shareholder advocates and corporate governance experts say they come at the expense of other investors, too, whose stake in the company is diluted.
Well before the market downturn, hundreds of American corporations reduced their tax bills by billions of dollars a year through their shrewd use of stock options. A decade ago, companies like Cisco and Microsoft were widely criticized because their stock options created such big deductions that, in some years, they paid no federal taxes at all. When shareholders and regulators complained about the excessive use of stock options, Microsoft temporarily stopped issuing them in 2003.
From 2005 to 2008, Apple reported that the options exercised by its employees cut its federal income tax bill by more than $1.6 billion. Stock options reduced Goldman Sachs's federal income tax bill by $1.8 billion during that period, and Hewlett-Packard's by nearly $850 million, according to filings by the companies.
Companies say the tax treatment is justified because they are deducting the cost of paying an employee, just as they would if they paid a salary in cash
Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat, has tried for nearly a decade to eliminate the tax break, which affects the most commonly granted stock options. He has introduced a bill that would limit a company's tax deduction for options to the same amount declared on its financial books. His proposal would also count options toward the maximum of $1 million that companies can deduct for an executive's pay each year (outside of performance-based bonuses).
The bipartisan Joint Committee on Taxation has estimated that if the senator's proposal were enacted, it would add $25 billion to the Treasury over the next decade.
Stock options became a popular reward for top executives in the 1990s after Congress imposed the $1 million cap. They lost a little of their appeal after accounting changes in 2005 forced companies to start counting the value of the options as an expense. Scandals over the backdating of options also made some companies wary. Restricted stock and other forms of equity sometimes replaced options. Once the stock market dropped in the fall of 2008, however, there was a spike in the number of options granted by companies. According to regulatory filings compiled by Equilar, an executive compensation consulting firm, the number of options issued by companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 jumped to 2.4 billion in 2009 from 2.1 billion in 2007, though they had been on the decline since 2003.
Goldman Sachs granted 36 million stock options in December 2008, 10 times more than the previous year.
General Electric, which granted 18 million options in 2007 and 25 million options in 2008, granted 159 million in 2009 and 105 million in 2010.
Some companies say that their options awards in 2008 and 2009 were decided before it was clear the stock market would recover. Others say that because share prices had plunged, they had to issue more options to reach the target compensation for their top executives.
General Electric acknowledged that it issued far more options after the market collapse because they offered a cheaper way to pay executives than restricted stock and other forms of compensation. A G.E. spokesman, Andrew Williams, said that tax considerations did not play a role in that decision.
To be sure, some executives whose option values have skyrocketed can point to notable accomplishments. Howard Schultz, chief executive of Starbucks, was granted options valued at $12 million in November 2008 that are today worth more than $100 million. In the years since, Starbucks has laid off thousands of employees, closed hundreds of stores and retooled its business plan. The strategy reversed the company's slide in earnings. Shares of Starbucks, which traded in the $30s during much of 2008 and fell below $8 after the near collapse, closed Thursday at $46.45.
But other companies whose executives have already cashed in some options issued during the crisis have not performed particularly well compared with their peers. The oil drilling company Halliburton is one.
And some financial services companies that have seen the value of the options they issued after the market collapse rise significantly -- including Goldman Sachs and Capital One Financial -- were able to weather the crisis, in some part, because of the billions in federal bailout money they received.
''The reason the C.E.O.'s and corporate boards gave all those options during the crisis is because they expected the market to recover -- and because the economy is cyclical, everyone knew it would recover,'' said Sydney Finkelstein, a professor of management at Dartmouth's Tuck School of Business. ''And the whole game is played with other people's money -- the market's money and the taxpayers' money.''
But Nobody Pays That: Articles in this series are examining efforts by businesses to lower their taxes and the debate over how to improve the tax system.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Carl Levin has tried to eliminate the tax break. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES)
Mel Karmazin, the chief executive of SiriusXM, was granted stock options in June 2009. They are now worth $165 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) CHARTS: Loading Up on Stock Options: When the financial crisis depressed stock prices, many companies saw an opportunity to grant a large number of options to their executives -- so that if the share prices recovered, the executives would reap windfalls. (Sources: Equilar
 Bloomberg) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); STOCK OPTIONS (92%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PRICE INCREASES (87%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (63%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%); GOOGLE INC (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1181 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: As Supply Dwindles, Organic Milk Gets Popular

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
There is a shortage of organic milk across the country, and it has become so bad in areas like the Southeast that Publix stores from Florida to Tennessee have put up signs in dairy cases anticipating the shopper's frustrated refrain: ''Where's my organic milk?''
The answer is that there is not enough to go around, and starting next month consumers can expect to see a sharp jump in price as well.
The main reason for the shortage is that the cost of organic grain and hay to feed cows has gone up sharply while the price that farmers receive for their milk has not. That means that farmers feed their cows less, resulting in lower milk production. At the same time, fewer farmers have been converting from conventional dairying to organic. 
Through it all, the demand for organic milk has been growing.
''It's a double whammy to have higher sales than you expect and less milk,'' said George L. Siemon, chief executive of Cropp, the farmers co-op that produces Organic Valley milk and much of the milk sold as supermarket store brands. ''We're sweating bullets over it.''
The shortages have been most noticeable on the East Coast but most areas of the country have had short supplies at some point in recent months. Target says that it has had difficulty keeping organic milk on shelves nationwide. Wegmans, a chain with 79 stores from Massachusetts to Virginia, said it has had shortages of milk from Horizon, a major national brand.
And Publix, with about 1,050 stores in five Southeastern states, said shortages started in November in both its store brand, Publix GreenWise Market organic milk, and national brands like Horizon and Organic Valley.
''Supplies are sporadic,'' said Kimberly Jaeger, a Publix spokeswoman. ''We are working with our suppliers to secure as much organic milk as we can.''
Dairy industry executives predicted that the shortage along with plans by processors to increase the amount paid to farmers meant that retail prices would rise in the next several weeks by as much as 10 percent. Half a gallon of organic milk that typically sells for $3.99 today may go as high as $4.39. Some chains have already started to raise prices.
Organic milk sales are growing, even though the milk costs significantly more than the conventional kind. Sales of whole organic milk increased 17 percent from January through October, measured by volume, compared with the same period last year, according to the Agriculture Department. Reduced-fat organic milk sales rose by 15 percent. At the same time, total conventional milk sales decreased 2 percent.
While the shortage may be frustrating for consumers, it reveals a bitter truth for organic dairy farmers, who say they simply need to be paid more for their milk.
''If it doesn't happen, the milk's not going to be there,'' said Tony Azevedo, an organic dairy farmer in Stevinson, Calif., and the president of the Western Organic Dairy Producers Alliance, a farmer group. ''And you're going to have more and more consumers that are going to be turned away.''
The alliance sent a letter to major milk processors like Organic Valley and Horizon this month, spelling out the economic difficulties facing organic dairy farmers. The letter cited the sharp rise in the cost of hay and grain fed to cattle, which is partly because of increasing demand for corn for ethanol.
It said that to make organic dairy farms profitable, processors would have to increase the amount paid to farmers by $5 for every 100 pounds of milk. That amounts to an increase of about 20 percent.
The alliance calculated that such an increase, if passed on to consumers, would lead to a retail price increase of about 22 cents a half gallon.
''We need at least $5 in order to stop the bleeding,'' Mr. Azevedo said. ''I've got farmers that can't pay their bills. The wolf's knocking at the door.''
Mr. Azevedo also said that retailers should do their part by lowering their markup on organic milk so that higher prices do not drive away consumers.
Payments to farmers differ by region. Mr. Azevedo, who sells his milk to the Organic Valley co-op, said that he receives a base payment of about $24.50 for each 100 pounds of milk, known as a hundredweight. Like many farmers, he gets bonuses linked to milk quality and seasonal factors, which bring his total payment to about $27 a hundredweight.
Eric Newman, vice president for sales for the Organic Valley co-op, said the company gave farmers a $1 per hundredweight increase to their base pay in August. It was the first increase in the base payment since May 2008, he said. Mr. Newman said the co-op plans to increase the base payment by an additional $2 over the next year, which he hoped would make farms more profitable and entice more farmers to convert to organic production.
Converting is a costly process that takes three years, during which farms must refrain from the use of synthetic pesticides and follow other guidelines. Organic dairy farming costs more than conventional farming for many reasons. Farmers must keep their animals on pasture or feed them expensive organically grown grain and hay. Mr. Azevedo said that cows on organic farms typically produce much less milk than cows on conventional farms.
Despite all that, farmers have switched to organic in part because they can sell organic milk for more money.
But this year, the price of conventional milk has risen closer to the organic price, while the costs of conventional dairy farming have not risen as much as organic costs have.
Mr. Siemon said that a handful of Organic Valley's dairy farmers had switched back to conventional farming this year, an almost unheard of move in the past.
''Like never before, we've seen them go back to conventional milk,'' Mr. Siemon said.
Mr. Siemon said that his company was able to give retail customers about 90 to 95 percent of the milk they order. Scott McGinty, president of Aurora Organic Dairy, another large processor, estimated that there is a 20 percent shortfall in organic milk nationwide.
The shortage has been most pronounced in the Northeast, where dairy farms tend to be smaller than in the West and where a single company, Stonyfield Farm of New Hampshire, buys a large portion of the local organic production. Stonyfield makes yogurt, cheese and other products.
Tight supplies have led the industry to extremes. Mr. Siemon says that to fill spot gaps in production he has had to send trucks of milk from the Midwest to the East Coast or from California to the Midwest.
The shortage has also compelled a start-up yogurt company in New York to make plans to produce its yogurt in California and truck it across the country to a plant on Long Island, where it will be packaged.
Dean Horowitz, chief executive of the company, A&D Yogurt, said he was not able to get a reliable supply of organic milk in the Northeast. The company plans to open a store on Long Island next spring where it will sell regular and frozen yogurt. It also plans to sell a line of yogurt mixed with vegetables for dogs.
''For us to provide ourselves with enough security and enough milk, we're going to ship it across the country,'' Mr. Horowitz said. He said the shipping will add about 12 percent to production costs. ''It's a lot of miles.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Even though organic milk costs more than conventional milk, its sales are growing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Tony Azevedo, an organic farmer, says pay for the milk has to increase or supply will remain low. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY PRODUCTS (94%); ORGANIC BEVERAGES (94%); DAIRY FARMING (90%); ORGANIC FOODS (90%); MILK (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); FLUID MILK MFG (89%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); SALES FIGURES (88%); BRANDING (87%); RETAIL SALES (78%); DAIRY PRODUCT MFG (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); PRICE CHANGES (66%)

COMPANY: PUBLIX SUPER MARKETS INC (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (94%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1182 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'A SEPARATION'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: A House Divided By Exasperation

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
''A Separation,'' a tightly structured, emotionally astute new film from Iran, begins with a couple, at odds and in distress, arguing in front of a judge. Simin (Leila Hatami) wants to leave the country with her daughter, Termeh (Sarina Farhadi), and Simin's husband, Nader (Peyman Moadi), insists on staying at home in Tehran to care for his frail and elderly father, who suffers from dementia and needs constant attention. Quite possibly there is more at issue than practical domestic arrangements -- there are hints of suppressed anger in Nader's demeanor, of long-simmering exasperation in Simin's -- but an Iranian courtroom may not be the best place to discuss intimate marital matters.
Nor, given that country's strict censorship codes, is an Iranian film. But ''A Separation,'' written and directed by Asghar Farhadi (and Iran's official Oscar submission), does not feel especially constrained. It is a rigorously honest movie about the difficulties of being honest, a film that tries to be truthful about the slipperiness of truth. It also sketches a portrait -- perhaps an unnervingly familiar picture for American audiences -- of a society divided by sex, generation, religion and class. 
The partial split between Nader and Simin is only one of the schisms revealed in the course of a story that quietly and shrewdly combines elements of family melodrama and legal thriller. Because Nader refuses to agree to a divorce or to give the legally required permission for his daughter to travel abroad, he and Simin find themselves at an impasse. She goes to live with her parents, and he hires a young woman named Razieh (Sareh Bayat) to help look after his father.
Razieh, who arrives with her young daughter, has an anxious, plaintive manner, and her apparent unreliability brings minor irritation and then outright chaos into Nader's life. Before long -- and as a result of events I will leave for you to discover -- Nader is back in court, embroiled in long arguments with Razieh and her husband, Hodjat (Shahab Hosseini), an unemployed shoemaker laden with debt and seething with resentment, humiliation and angry piety.
The conflict between the two families, which often turns on forensic details and uncertain recollections, is inflamed by social tension. In Hodjat's eyes Nader and Simin are part of a corrupt and entitled elite, arrogant and irreligious and full of contempt for an ordinary working man like him. And their attempts to be reasonable, compassionate and polite betray an unmistakable condescension, which Mr. Farhadi tacitly endorses by making Hodjat such a brute.
There are moments when the humanism of ''A Separation'' feels a bit schematic, as if the characters were pulled from a box of available types rather than painted in the shades of life. But there are also scenes that draw power from the subtlety of the performances, in particular the quiet, watchful portrayal by Ms. Farhadi (the director's daughter) of a girl who is at once central and peripheral to the drama unfolding around her. Termeh, shy and studious, is desperate to please her parents and terrified that her family will collapse. Her parents, and the audience, continually overlook the intensity of her feelings, which nonetheless pervade the film, along with her unspoken hope that everything will work out in the end.
The outcome is less important to Mr. Farhadi than what leads up to it, and the film is remarkably deft in capturing the petty, cumulative frustrations of modern city life. In addition to their weekly quota of quarrels and brooding silences, Simin and Nader must contend with work (she is a doctor, he has a job in a bank), their daughter's schooling, Tehran traffic (a touchstone of recent Iranian cinema) and an officious and sometimes chaotic government bureaucracy. Daily life is a cycle of waiting, nagging, negotiating and looking for a place to park, much of it carried out with frayed and weary decorum. Even when everything seems to be falling apart, people try to mind their manners.
Because self-control seems to be, in this setting, both a deeply ingrained habit and a public virtue, eruptions of feeling -- some of which come close to physical violence -- arrive with special force in ''A Separation.'' And they leave a knot of ethical and philosophical questions that may make the walk home from the theater as argumentative as the film itself. Most of the characters' behavior is viewed with sympathy and skepticism, and the frequent bouts of legal wrangling invite endless interpretation of every aspect of the story. Somehow it is all perfectly clear, and yet at the same time tantalizingly and heartbreakingly mysterious.
''A Separation'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). A lot of difficult grown-up stuff.
A SEPARATION
Opens on Friday in New York and Los Angeles.
Written, produced and directed by Asghar Farhadi; director of photography, Mahmood Kalari; edited by Hayedeh Safiyari; sets and costumes by Keyvan Moghadam; released by Sony Pictures Classics. In Persian, with English subtitles. Running time: 2 hours 3 minutes.
WITH: Leila Hatami (Simin), Peyman Moadi (Nader), Shahab Hosseini (Hodjat), Sareh Bayat (Razieh), Sarina Farhadi (Termeh), Babak Karimi (Judge), Ali-Asghar Shahbazi (Nader's Father), Shirin Yazdanbakhsh (Simin's Mother), Kimia Hosseini (Somayeh) and Merila Zarei (Ms. Ghahraei).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Separation, with Leila Hatami and Peyman Moadi, opens on Friday in New York and Los Angeles. (C1)
 Kimia Hosseini, left, and Sareh Bayat in ''A Separation,'' directed by Asghar Farhadi. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HABIB MADJIDI/SONY PICTURES CLASSICS) (C18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSORSHIP (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); FAMILY (69%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (65%); DEMENTIA (56%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%); FORENSICS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (67%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN (73%)

TITLE: Separation, A (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1183 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Jamaica Comes Alive With Airport Arrivals

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
A steady stream of travelers dragging wheeled suitcases and speaking a Babel of tongues is helping revive downtown Jamaica, a vibrant hub of Queens that weathered several gloomy decades of decay and crime.
The wheelers are passengers from abroad heading to or getting off the sleek, driverless trains of Kennedy International Airport's AirTrain, whose ridership has tripled since it opened in 2003. Most travelers are not dawdling in Jamaica itself and are simply connecting to the E, J or Z subway lines or the Long Island Rail Road trains that can whisk them in 20 minutes to Manhattan. But enough linger for the night to encourage three developers in recent years to open budget hotels -- a 64-room Ramada, a 72-room Quality Inn and a 66-room Sleep Inn.
''Seventy percent of my guests travel by AirTrain,'' explained Chandresh Patel, operator of the Ramada, where rooms go for $99 a night, less than two-thirds the price of a Midtown equivalent.
And some of the hotel guests choose to cruise the area's increasingly inviting shopping corridor. Flying in from Bermuda, Dija Brown, 31, picked the Ramada so she could load up on clothes for her children, Papi, 12, and Angel, 7, at Shoppers World and V.I.M. nearby. The savings can more than offset the trip's expense. 
''A pair of jeans is $50 to $80 in Bermuda,'' she said. ''Here I can walk over to Jamaica Avenue and get two for $20 at V.I.M.''
Jamaica, a honeycomb of clamorous department stores, government offices and apartment houses until too many stores and residents departed for the suburbs, is undergoing something of a resurrection. It is a gradual and halting upswing, but an upswing nonetheless.
A Home Depot has replaced the shell of the old Long Island Press, a newspaper that closed in 1977. Through New York City-sponsored initiatives, a striking building with 346 rental apartments behind the rescued brick facade of the former Queens Family Court opened last year, with silk-stocking amenities like a lobby dry cleaner and a gym. A new 400-seat theater in a restored landmark Dutch Reformed church hosts acts like Haitian dancers and African jazz singers.
A retail district that lost Macy's and Gertz more than three decades ago is welcoming recent arrivals like Gap Generation and Zales that are joining slightly older settlers like Old Navy and Bally Total Fitness and stores that specialize in hip-hop fashion. (Jamaica was a cradle of hip-hop.) A strip of shops is being constructed opposite the AirTrain on one side of a railroad underpass that for years had been used for unloading railroad trash.
A nightclub notorious for drugs and shootings has been alchemized into a stately children's science addition to the Queens Library. Though it still loses money, the 20-year-old Jamaica Market, an ethnic food court with two rows of stalls offering Cajun-style chicken, Caribbean goat curry and Chinese and Japanese dishes, is becoming a lively lunchtime magnet, in part thanks to the presence of new immigrants from the West Indies, South America and Bangladesh.
''There's been a lot of changes; you see a lot more stores opening,'' said Justin Kilian, a bank manager eating at the market with two friends. ''There's an Applebee's, a commercial restaurant. You never had that over here.''
The transformation is a contrast to longtime erosion in downtown Jamaica, which at one time was the city's third-largest shopping district but suffered from the citywide middle-class exodus to the suburbs of the 1950s and 1960s aggravated by crack and crime epidemics.
But the AirTrain is among the factors causing a resurgence. The rail link, which for a $5 MetroCard fare ferries tourists in eight minutes from Kennedy's Terminal 1, recorded 3.9 million passengers using its Jamaica hub in the 12 months ending in September, a 6.8 percent increase from the year before. (There is also a terminal in Howard Beach.)
''It may have been slower coming than they first thought, but some of that development that was hoped for with the AirTrain is now starting to appear,'' said Charles Brecher, a professor of public administration at New York University who studied the AirTrain.
A big setback, however, was the bankruptcy in 2009 of Mary Immaculate Hospital, a 162-bed institution that the year before had more than 100,000 patient visits. Its three buildings along Rufus King Park were sold to a developer for a rock-bottom $7 million; their fate is unclear. The closing sucked 1,200 jobs out of the neighborhood.
And the area immediately around the AirTrain -- five blocks west of the shopping district's heart -- is still forlorn, with cluttered groceries and at least one ''gentleman's club.'' A former meatpacking plant a few steps from the AirTrain was torn down, but the site's future is murky.
So, many travelers simply pass through the transit hub.
''If they have to wait for the next train, they'll stop; if they have to catch a train, they don't stop,'' said Ali Ahmed, a clerk at the Long Island Deli Express.
Much of the energy for the new changes has been driven by projects started years ago by the Greater Jamaica Development Corporation. It had helped attract York College, which is part of the City University of New York; an 11-story office building of the federal Social Security Administration; and an extension of the subway along Archer Avenue. It runs the Jamaica Market and three garages and two parking lots with 1,900 spaces that make shopping easier.
Also crucial to Jamaica's resurgence, said F. Carlisle Towery, an urban planner who has been the corporation's president for almost four decades, was a 2007 rezoning from manufacturing to commercial and residential uses.
Jamaica has also been helped by the revitalization of York College, which has an enrollment of 7,400. Its effort to create a symbiosis with its neighbor, the federal Food and Drug Administration's regional headquarters, has produced 100 internships and a bachelor's degree in pharmaceutical sciences.
Still, with the AirTrain, the downtown has a new mission -- a pause that refreshes, to use an advertising slogan. In addition to the three new hotels, a fourth, a Comfort Inn, is under construction, a developer of two more (a 160-room Marriott Courtyard and a 160-room Fairfield Inn) is seeking financing and the development corporation has acquired sites for two others.
Rajendra Patel (no relation to Chandresh), who is building the Comfort Inn, with 72 rooms that he said would go for as little as $80 per night, said he liked downtown Jamaica because guests could entertain themselves at the 15-screen multiplex on Jamaica Avenue or catch the Mets at CitiField, a short subway ride away.
''It is the location,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An AirTrain pulling into a subway station in Jamaica, Queens, on Thursday. The service has been a boon to the downtown, five blocks from the shopping district's heart, but the area immediately around the station still suffers.
While most riders switch to other trains, many take advantage of the growing number of hotels and the shopping. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17)
The Jamaica Market has a popular ethnic food court.
 Passengers headed to Kennedy Airport waiting in Jamaica station for the AirTrain to arrive. The service began in 2003 and features driverless trains. Ridership has tripled since its start. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RETAILERS (87%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%); FITNESS CENTERS (73%); FAMILY COURTS (66%); DANCE (65%); HIP HOP CULTURE (64%); RAP MUSIC (64%); SUBURBS (63%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (63%); DANCERS (60%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%); JAZZ & BLUES (50%)

COMPANY: BALLY TOTAL FITNESS HOLDING CORP (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713940 FITNESS & RECREATIONAL SPORTS CENTERS (52%); SIC7991 PHYSICAL FITNESS FACILITIES (52%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1184 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: In Challenge, China Extends Space Mission

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG and KENNETH CHANG; Edward Wong reported from Beijing, and Kenneth Chang from New York.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Broadening its challenge to the United States, the Chinese government on Thursday announced an ambitious five-year plan for space exploration that would move China closer to becoming a major rival at a time when the American program is in retreat.
Coupled with China's earlier vows to build a space station and put an astronaut on the moon, the plan conjured up memories of the cold-war-era space race between the United States and the Soviet Union. The United States, which has de-emphasized manned spaceflight in recent years, is now dependent on Russia for transporting its astronauts to the International Space Station. Russia, for its part, has suffered an embarrassing string of failed satellite launchings.
China has been looking for ways to exert its growing economic strength and to demonstrate that its technological mastery and scientific achievements can approach those of any global power. The plan announced Thursday calls for launching a space lab and collecting samples from the moon, all by 2016, along with a more powerful manned spaceship and space freighters. 
In recent years, China has also sought to build a military capacity in keeping with its economic might, expanding its submarine fleet and, this year, testing its first aircraft carrier, a refurbished Soviet model. Under the new space plan, it would vastly expand its version of a Global Positioning System, which would have military as well as civilian uses.
The plan shows how the government intends to draw on military and civilian resources to meet the goals, which the government is betting will also produce benefits for the Chinese economy. ''This approach offers lessons for other advanced space powers, including the U.S., which needs to make sure it sustains its high-level investment in various aspects of space development across the board,'' said Andrew S. Erickson, a professor at the United States Naval War College who has studied the Chinese space program.
While a leader in the business of launching satellites, China is still years behind the United States in space. Its human spaceflight accomplishments to date put it roughly where the United States and the Soviet Union were in the mid-1960s.
But China has consistently stuck to a development timeline for its program and met the realistic goals set out in its five-year plans, which are mainstays of the Communist Party's authoritarian system.
For human spaceflight, the plan lays out a continuation of China's steady but unrushed efforts to develop technologies and extend its capacities. It says that China will begin the work to land its astronauts on the moon, but it does not provide a target date for when they will go.
''I think it is a comprehensive, moderately paced program,'' said John M. Logsdon, former director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University. ''It's not a crash program.''
By contrast, NASA's direction tends to shift with every change of presidency. President George W. Bush called on NASA to return to the moon by 2020. President Obama canceled that program and now wants the agency to send astronauts to an asteroid. NASA shut down its 30-year space shuttle program after a final flight in July.
''The one thing that is admirable about their program is they don't have fits and starts,'' said Joseph R. Fragola, a space safety expert who has visited the space facilities in China. ''Their program is low budget but it is laid out, and they follow it in an orderly process, and we don't do that.''
Experts say Beijing is approaching its space program the way it did its military modernization. In addition to the aircraft carrier, which it bought from Ukraine, China has also made a progress on an anti-ship ballistic missile, which could be deployed to ward off foreign warships. Last January, the Chinese military tested a stealth fighter hours before Robert M. Gates, the defense secretary at the time, met in Beijing with President Hu Jintao.
Unlike in the United States, where there are separate military and civilian space programs, in China the People's Liberation Army is the driving force behind development of the Chinese space program. Civilian institutions, including various universities and laboratories, are part of the military-led efforts. In the white paper that laid out the plan, released by the State Council, China's cabinet, the authors took pains to say that Beijing was not seeking to challenge any nation militarily with its space program.
''China always adheres to the use of outer space for peaceful purposes, and opposes weaponization or any arms race in outer space,'' the paper said.
Analysts say one of the more notable goals of the five-year strategy is to further develop the Beidou Navigation Satellite System, which on Tuesday began providing navigation, positioning and timing data on China and surrounding areas. The white paper said China intended to have a global system by 2020, with 35 satellites in orbit. If it met that goal, China would join Russia in having a system that tries to rival America's. China has already launched 10 satellites for the Beidou system, and plans to launch six more next year.
Beidou is not as advanced as its American counterpart, but it is expected to overshadow the Russian system and would provide the Chinese military with an alternative to relying on a civilian version of the American network. Beidou would also be used for civilian purposes, like providing drivers with a navigation tool.
''This has major commercial implications, it has major security implications,'' Mr. Erickson said. ''To be a great military and space power, it's important to have one's own satellite navigation system.''
The white paper, which follows similar reports released in 2000 and 2006, also said China would develop new Long March launch vehicles to deliver heavier payloads into orbit. It will also work on improving conditions for human spaceflight.
To lay that groundwork, the paper said, China ''will launch space laboratories, manned spaceship and space freighters; make breakthroughs in and master space station key technologies, including astronauts' medium-term stay, regenerative life support and propellant refueling; conduct space applications to a certain extent and make technological preparations for the construction of space stations.''
On deep-space exploration, the paper said China planned to launch orbiters that would make soft lunar landings and do roving and surveying. After that, the paper said, China will collect samples of the moon's surface and bring them back for analysis.
The paper also said China planned to carry out a comprehensive plan for upgrading its satellite technology and widening the uses of its satellites.
''In aggregate, this is clearly going to propel China even further into space to a significant degree,'' Mr. Erickson said. ''There's relentless progress across the board.''
In 2003, China became the third country to send a human into space, behind the United States and the Soviet Union, when it put Yang Liwei into orbit around the earth. It launched a lunar probe in 2007 that orbited the moon and took pictures, and the next year completed its first spacewalk when Zhai Zhigang remained for 13 minutes outside the Shenzhou 7 spacecraft.
China's Long March 5 rocket, currently under development, would be able to lift about 25 tons to low-earth orbit, comparable to the United States' Delta IV Heavy rocket and much smaller than the Saturn V rocket that launched the Apollo spacecraft to the moon four decades ago. But that would be enough for China to get to the moon by launching its lunar spacecraft in pieces and assembling it in the earth's orbit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (93%); SPACECRAFT (91%); SPACE INDUSTRY (90%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (90%); SPACE STATIONS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); AEROSPACE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); NAVIES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (72%); NAVAL VESSELS (71%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) EARTH'S MOON (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1185 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: Darker Nights As Some Cities Turn Off Lights For the Savings

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- When the sun sets in this small city, its neighborhoods seem to vanish.
In a deal to save money, two-thirds of the streetlights were yanked from the ground and hauled away this year, and the resulting darkness is a look that is familiar in the wide open cornfields of Iowa but not here, in a struggling community surrounded on nearly all sides by Detroit.
Parents say they now worry more about allowing their children to walk to school early in the morning. Motorists complain that they often cannot see pedestrians until headlights -- and cars -- are right upon them. Some residents say they are reshaping their lives to fit the hours of daylight, as the members of the Rev. D. Alexander Bullock's church did recently when they urged him to move up Saturday Bible study to 4 p.m. from the usual 7 p.m.
''It's just too dark,'' said Mr. Bullock, of Greater St. Matthew Baptist Church. ''I come out of the church, and I can't see what's in front of me. What happened to our streetlights is what happens when politicians lose hope. All kinds of crazy decisions get made, and citizens lose faith in the process.'' 
Cities around the nation, grappling with what is expected to be a fifth consecutive year of declining revenues and having exhausted the predictable budget trims, are increasingly considering something that would once have been untouchable: the lights.
Highland Park's circumstances are extreme; with financial woes so deep and long term, it has extinguished all but 500 streetlights in a city accustomed to 1,600, utility company officials say. But similar efforts have played out in dozens of towns and cities, like Myrtle Creek, Ore., Clintonville, Wis., Brainerd, Minn., Santa Rosa, Calif., and Rockford, Ill.
What distinguishes these latest austerity measures is how noticeable they are to ordinary residents. If health care cuts, pay cuts, layoffs and furloughs -- and even limits on enforcing building codes or maintaining parks -- are most apparent to the people inside city halls, everyone notices when his streetlights go dark (and some cities, like Colorado Springs, where the issue boiled over, have already resumed some lighting when revenues allowed).
Turning off the lights has drawn grumpy crowds to city council meetings, stirred jealousy among neighborhoods and neighbors, and set off conversations about crime.
''I go around town, and even I think some areas seem a little darker than they should be,'' said Tim Hanson, the public works director in Rockford, where officials turned off 2,300 of the city's 14,000 lights. ''It was not anything that I wanted to do, and it was nothing that the mayor or aldermen wanted to do, but it's like your own budget at home -- we can't afford this anymore.''
Here in Highland Park, that had been true for a while. Over a matter of years, the city accumulated a debt of about $4 million to DTE Energy, the utility company. The city was paying less than half of its $60,000 monthly bill for an antiquated lighting system that was costly to maintain. So the company and city struck a deal. The company could turn off and take away 1,300 of the city's lights, add 200 lights in strategic locations, and the debt would be forgiven, said Scott Simons, a spokesman for DTE.
The result in this 2.9-square-mile city feels like this: Lights are still abundant along Woodward Avenue, the crowded commercial strip. But a block away, along the quieter, residential streets, lights now remain mostly at intersections. Long stretches of blocks are dark, silhouettes of people are barely visible and potholes appear suddenly beneath tires.
Some people here say they learned of the plans this fall only when a truck pulled up outside their homes and workers began pulling the poles from the ground. (Though the added step of removing the lights -- not just turning them off -- seemed an affront to residents, company officials said it had to be done for liability reasons and to avoid continuing reports of power failure and the risk of metal theft.)
''The people were basically left in the dark,'' said DeAndre Windom, who was elected mayor in November. He said the disappearing streetlights were the top concern of residents as he campaigned door to door.
''When you come through at night, it's scary; you have to wonder if anyone is lurking around waiting to catch you off your guard,'' said Juanita Kennedy, 65, who said she had installed a home security system and undergone training to carry a handgun in the weeks since workmen carried away the streetlight in front of her house. ''I don't go out to get gas at night. I don't run to any stores. I try to do everything in the daytime and to be back before night falls.''
Highland Park, home of Henry Ford's first moving assembly line, was once a well-off enclave of 50,000 residents. Ford left long ago, and Chrysler's corporate headquarters moved away in the 1990s. Now it has fewer than 12,000 residents -- half the size it was just 20 years ago.
So for this city, a shrunken tax base and financial crisis have been long in the making, and the recent national downturn has only made matters worse. More than 42 percent of Highland Park's residents live in poverty, unemployment is high and the median income here is nearly $30,000 below that of the state.
''To understand our street lighting situation is to understand the wealth that Highland Park once had; it was a situation where we had the best of almost everything and an abundance of lights,'' said Rodney Patrick, whose father insisted on moving his family to Highland Park in the early 1950s because of its advantages -- its status, in his words, as the shining city on the hill. ''But we don't have the residents to have the luxuries we had when we were a city of 50,000.''
If the outcome seems imperfect to many residents, not everyone views it as dire. ''The lights are not out in Highland Park,'' said Mr. Patrick, who serves on the City Council. ''We've had a reduction, a responsible reduction.''
It is too soon to judge whether the lights have affected safety here. Officials from other communities and studies on the question of streetlights and crime draw mixed conclusions.
In Highland Park, yard lights and even strings of Christmas lights are helping to illuminate some streets, and some leaders have urged residents to add their own lighting if they are worried about security -- leading to complaints that the city is trying to shift items it cannot afford to residents who cannot afford them either.
In cities around the nation, similar ideas have emerged: streetlight user fees, private security lights, even optional ''adopt-a-light'' programs comparable to road sponsorships.
In Oregon, officials in Myrtle Creek turned off 78 of the city's 297 streetlights in 2010, to save $11,000. A streetlight sponsorship program suggests that nerves have calmed. Last year, people paid to keep six of the lights on. Now, only two of the lights remain adopted and lighted. ''Nobody's talking about it anymore,'' said Aaron K. Cubic, city administrator in the rural community, 90 minutes south of Eugene.
Not so in Highland Park, where the measure is newer and the darkness more pronounced. There is hope for new lights, though no money for them. The mayor-elect, Mr. Windom, said that he was in conversations with groups that might consider Highland Park as a pilot project for some more energy-efficient, environmentally conscious, experimental lighting system.
''We can't go back,'' said Mr. Windom, who has, for now, urged residents to turn on their porch lights.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: JUANITA KENNEDY, a resident of Highland Park, Mich., where the city has shut off two-thirds of its streetlights. (A11)
 A streetlight out of commission in Highland Park, Mich. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CHILDREN (76%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); RELIGION (73%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); MAYORS (69%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (68%); LAYOFFS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); ROCKFORD, IL, USA (67%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1186 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: Police Stop-and-Frisks

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''Why Is the N.Y.P.D. After Me?'' (Sunday Review, Dec. 18), Nicholas K. Peart illustrates how the lives of young black men are violated regularly by the police, usually without any merit. 
Our analysis of 2009 stop-and-frisk data for the New York police shows that 94 percent of stops in 2009 did not lead to an arrest. The analysis also showed that there were 132,000 stops of black men 16 to 24. This is particularly striking since according to Census Bureau data that we examined, only 120,000 black men of that age lived in New York City in 2009. So on average, every young black man can be expected to be stopped and frisked by the police each year.
We cannot accept that so many young people experience their lives this way, particularly at such a formative stage. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's recent Young Men's Initiative made little attempt to address stop-and-frisk policy. We must stop treating young black men like criminals and start thinking of them as potential assets to our recovering and growing economy and society. Until we do, our efforts to improve their education and employment prospects will be hollow.
LAZAR TRESCHAN Director of Youth Policy Community Service Society of New York New York, Dec. 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CENSUS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1187 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 252 words

HEADLINE: Background Checks

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Many in U.S. Are Arrested by Age 23, Study Finds'' (news article, Dec. 19): 
About one-third of American adults have criminal records, complicating their job search dramatically. Research underwritten by the National Institute of Justice shows that even accurate arrest records may be of little use in pre-employment screening, particularly when arrests date back many years.
The 2009 study, by Carnegie Mellon researchers, shows that people who stay clean reach a point -- in some cases as soon as three or four years -- when their prior arrest is of no value in predicting future arrests. Eventually, those who stay out of trouble are largely indistinguishable from the general population in terms of their odds of another arrest.
An interagency Re-entry Council, led by Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., is addressing these issues. For example, in the vast majority of cases, employers may not automatically bar everyone with an arrest or conviction record from employment. And there are protections for employers who do hire this population.
If we want people with past criminal involvement to support themselves and their families, pay their taxes and contribute to the economy, they need to be able to compete for legitimate work opportunities.
LAURIE O. ROBINSON JOHN H. LAUB Washington, Dec. 21, 2011
Both writers work for the Justice Department, Ms. Robinson as an assistant attorney general of the Office of Justice Programs, and Mr. Laub as director of the National Institute of Justice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF JUSTICE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS (54%)

PERSON: ERIC HOLDER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1188 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Contract Deadline Nears for 22,000 Office Cleaners in City

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The owners of 1,500 office towers in New York City, most of them in Manhattan, are preparing for a possible strike at midnight Saturday, lining up thousands of workers to replace union employees who clean the buildings during overnight shifts.
The union representing 22,000 cleaners whose contract is about to expire have built up a strike fund, identified picket line captains and won pledges of support from politicians and labor leaders. 
Despite the tough talk over the past two months, the city's office cleaners and building owners still appear likely to reach an agreement on a new four-year contract by the Jan. 1 deadline, or shortly afterward. The owners have softened some of their language, and both sides say there has been progress. But a new contract is not expected to yield substantial gains in wages or benefits.
''On many issues, we've bridged the gaps,'' Howard Rothschild, president of the Realty Advisory Board on Labor Relations, said Wednesday as negotiations entered a critical phase with the union, Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union.
''We've been preparing the industry for a strike for the last couple of months,'' Mr. Rothschild said. ''If the union does strike, we have to be prepared.''
For its part, the union has held boisterous rallies attended by hundreds of workers, and news conferences in which politicians and labor leaders vowed to back the office cleaners. Mike Fishman, president of Local 32BJ, has been dismissive of the owner's demands for a two-tier wage structure and changes to health and pension benefits.
''The city's building owners negotiate as if they are a fiscally strapped city or state government with huge deficits,'' Matthew Nerzig, a spokesman for the union, said, ''when they are a highly profitable, $20 billion industry.''
When talks ended for the day on Thursday, participants said sticking points remained.
The negotiations are taking place at a moment of uncertainty about the direction of the economy.
The building owners also view the unions as politically vulnerable to demands for concessions, in light of setbacks for public-sector unions in Ohio, Wisconsin and elsewhere.
Mr. Rothschild said the owners agreed to generous contract terms four years ago during the real estate boom that provided for a 16.5 percent increase in wages and benefits. The average earnings for the office cleaners today are about $49,000 a year, making them the highest paid in the country.
But since 2007, the owners say, the office vacancy rate has soared while rents have fallen by half. With decreasing revenues and increasing expenses, Mr. Rothschild said, ''adjustments have to be made'' to the cleaners' compensation package.
The owners have demanded a two-tier wage system in which newly hired workers would get less compensation than existing employees. They also proposed changes in work rules and health benefits, which currently include full family medical insurance.
The economic picture is not quite as dire as the owners contend. New York is widely considered the healthiest real estate market in the country, a perception highlighted at an industry conference in November entitled ''We Are the Golden Apple.''
According to CoStar, a real estate research firm, the vacancy rate in Manhattan is about 7 percent, up from 5.2 percent at the end of 2007, while annual rents have fallen to $46.72 per square foot from $60.93. Current rents for prime buildings average $54.84.
Carmen Perez, an office cleaner who has worked in the same building on Lexington Avenue for 26 years, was indignant that the owners would propose cuts. She said it was hard for a family in New York to make ends meet on $49,000 a year, especially when her mortgage costs $2,000 a month. Her husband is also an office cleaner.
''How can I pay for health insurance with the money I make?'' Ms. Perez said. ''I'm trying to put my two children through college without any debt. I want my kids to have a better life. I don't want my kids to struggle like I did.''
One of the city's largest commercial landlords, who requested anonymity because he was not authorized to speak on the industry's behalf, said a compromise was possible on the industry's initial proposal of a 2 percent increase in the third year of the contract but no pay increases in the other three years.
The zero increases could be softened by a one-time bonus payment. And the proposal for a two-tier wage structure could result in a wage scale for new employees that starts low and rises over time to the full rate.
''This is a crucial negotiation that started out with a discussion about cuts and savings,'' Ed Ott, a consultant and a lecturer at the City University's Graduate Center, said. ''After Occupy Wall Street, the discussion became one about good jobs and income.
''I think both sides are trying to work toward a good settlement. This is one of the few blue-collar jobs left in the city where you can come in as an immigrant worker and end up making a decent living.''
The union reached tentative agreements this week with owners of office towers in Connecticut and New Jersey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); STRIKES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1189 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 5006 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information: nytimes.com/theater.
Previews and Openings
'The Gershwins' Porgy and Bess' (in previews; opens on Jan. 12) Controversy swirled around this revival of the 1935 American folk opera when Stephen Sondheim very publicly took issue with comments made by the director, Diane Paulus, and the adapter, Suzan-Lori Parks, concerning their views on the original book by DuBose Heyward. Whether or not that scolding was the decisive factor, the creative team reportedly has now opted for a less radical overhaul than originally planned. Either way, with Audra McDonald, Norm Lewis and David Alan Grier in the lead roles, this is one of the most eagerly anticipated musical events of the Broadway season. Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (David Rooney) 
'How the World Began' (in previews; opens on Jan. 8) Heidi Schreck (''Circle Mirror Transformation'') stars in Catherine Trieschmann's play about a high school biology teacher who leaves New York for rural Kansas, where an offhand remark about the origins of the universe whips up a firestorm. Don't they always? Daniella Topol directs this production from the Women's Project, in association with South Coast Rep. Peter Jay Sharp Theater, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Rooney)
'It's Always Right Now, Until It's Later' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on Jan. 8) Following his success at St. Ann's Warehouse last January with ''The Interminable Suicide of Gregory Church,'' the gifted British monologuist Daniel Kitson brings another example of his distinctive storytelling. ''This is a show about every single one of us,'' Mr. Kitson said, describing the ambitious piece. ''The past in our pockets, the future in our hearts, and us, ourselves, very much stuck, trapped forever in the tiny eternal moment between the two.'' St. Ann's Warehouse, 38 Water Street, at Dock Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn, (718) 254-8779, stannswarehouse.org. (Rooney)
'Other Forces' (opens on Thursday) Incubator Arts Project presents this forum of work from innovative independent theater artists. On this year's lineup is ''Cattywampus,'' a line-by-line reinvention of August Strindberg's ''Miss Julie,'' written and directed by Robert Cucuzza; and a preview showing of Half Straddle's ''Away Uniform,'' a companion piece to the cult hit, ''In the Pony Palace/Football,'' in which the writer-director Tina Satter continues her poetic exploration of the language and feelings of sports. Incubator Arts Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, near Second Avenue, (212) 352-3101, incubatorarts.org. (Rooney)
'Outside People' (in previews; opens on Jan. 10) Naked Angels and the Vineyard join forces on Zayd Dohrn's dark comedy, which explores culture-clash terrain similar to that in ''Chinglish,'' playing uptown. Directed by Evan Cabnet, the new play is set in contemporary Beijing, where a young American man falls for a Chinese woman, forcing him to consider his complex role in a foreign environment and the social, political and economic forces that shape their relationship. Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, (212) 353-0303, vineyardtheatre.org. (Rooney)
'The Road to Mecca' (in previews; opens on Jan. 17) Before Signature Theater Company's Athol Fugard season, beginning in February, Roundabout kicks off the South African dramatist's 80th birthday celebration with this Broadway premiere. The 1984 play about artistic freedom centers on a reclusive elderly widow whose ability to continue living independently and creating her iconoclastic sculptures is called into question by a pastor but defended by an admiring young schoolteacher. Gordon Edelstein's production stars Rosemary Harris, Carla Gugino and, in a role once played by Mr. Fugard, Jim Dale. American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Rooney)
Under the Radar (opens on Wednesday) The Public Theater's eighth annual showcase of diverse new theater from America and around the world features productions from nine countries, including Argentina, Italy, Japan and Poland, playing at a number of Manhattan locations. The festival promises cardboard puppets, punk-glam rock bands, choral spoken word and fallen angels in a lineup that addresses topical issues like the inequities between rich and poor and the roots of individual freedom and identity. Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Rooney)
'Wit' (previews start on Thursday; opens on Jan. 26) Cynthia Nixon returns to Manhattan Theater Club, where her performance in ''Rabbit Hole'' earned her a Tony Award in 2006. She stars in the Broadway premiere of Margaret Edson's Pulitzer Prize-winning 1995 drama about a poetry professor undergoing experimental treatment for ovarian cancer as she contemplates the irony of a life devoted to scholarship ultimately becoming fodder for someone else's research. Lynne Meadow directs. Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
Broadway
- 'The Book of Mormon' This delightful collaboration between the creators of ''South Park'' (Trey Parker and Matt Stone) and the composer of ''Avenue Q'' (Robert Lopez) is blasphemous, scurrilous and as pure-hearted as a Rodgers and Hammerstein show. No musical has so successfully had it both ways since ''The Producers.'' Casey Nicholaw is the witty co-director (with Mr. Parker) and choreographer (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com. (Ben Brantley)
'Chinglish' David Henry Hwang's sporadically funny comedy about a bewildered American businessman seeking his fortune in capitalist China is laid out with the frame-by-frame exactness of a comic strip. That means this bilingual production is easy to follow but hard to embrace with enthusiasm. Leigh Silverman directs (2:00). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'An Evening With Patti LuPone and Mandy Patinkin' The stars of the original Broadway production of ''Evita'' are reunited on the concert stage for an eclectic evening of (mostly) love songs from the musical theater. Both are in fine vocal form, and the show is a must-have ticket for ardent fans, but the repertory is sometimes a fine fit (Stephen Sondheim) and sometimes ill-chosen (Rodgers and Hammerstein) (2:00). Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Charles Isherwood)
- 'Follies' The Kennedy Center's revival of James Goldman and Stephen Sondheim's musical about a reunion of Ziegfeld-style performers looks back as much in anger as in fondness, and that's what makes it so vibrant. Eric Schaeffer directs an electric cast led by Bernadette Peters, Jan Maxwell, Danny Burstein and Ron Raines (2:30). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'Godspell' Oh, dear Lord: the beloved 1971 musical that turned biblical parables into teachable moments has been stuffed fruitcake-full of jokey contemporary allusions. Performed by a peppy young cast, the show is like being stuck in a rec room with kids who have been too reckless with the Red Bull (2:30). Circle in the Square Theater, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
'How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying' Only a few more chances to see Daniel Radcliffe star in this 1961 Frank Loesser musical about corporate ladder climbing. Not a natural song-and-dance man, Mr. Radcliffe tries really, really hard as the show's amoral hero. His last performance is Sunday; Darren Criss of ''Glee'' begins in the role on Tuesday, when Beau Bridges takes over for the Tony-winning John Larroquette. Rob Ashford directed this largely charm-free revival (2:40). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
- 'Lysistrata Jones' Douglas Carter Beane and Lewis Flinn's endearingly escapist show -- about sex, apathy and basketball on a college campus -- brings a touch of summer sun and silliness to what has been a wintry season for musicals. Dan Knechtges directs (and choreographs) a spirited cast that includes the delicious Patti Murin in the title role (2:15). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Mountaintop' Katori Hall's surprisingly thin drama, which won the 2010 Olivier Award, depicts the last night in the life of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. (Samuel L. Jackson) and his encounter with a feisty motel maid (Angela Bassett). Perhaps best regarded as a comfort play, a nursery-room fable for grownups (1:40). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'On a Clear Day You Can See Forever' This grim, extensively reworked revival of the Burton Lane and Alan Jay Lerner musical from 1965 appears to be suffering from a severe case of clinical depression. Harry Connick Jr. plays a psychiatrist in mourning. Michael Mayer directs Peter Parnell's revamped book (2:30). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
- 'Other Desert Cities' Jon Robin Baitz's family drama is so good that you may not even realize how good it is while you're watching it. Joe Mantello directs a sublime cast that expertly elicits the pain and the comfort of blood ties: Stockard Channing, Rachel Griffiths, Stacy Keach, Judith Light and Thomas Sadoski (2:15). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Priscilla Queen of the Desert' The 1994 movie about Australian drag queens in the outback becomes a hyperactively splashy karaoke musical so desperate to show the audience a gaudy good time that the results are mostly enervating. Tony Sheldon brings some warmth as the transsexual Bernadette, but the show is mostly a riot of spangles, sequins and silly costumes (2:30). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)
'Relatively Speaking' This slight but mostly enjoyable trio of short plays by Ethan Coen, Elaine May and Woody Allen won't do much to burnish their established reputations, but the show is chock full of nifty shtick. Marlo Thomas delights as a pampered princess with a dead husband in Ms. May's contribution (2:15). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)
'Seminar' Alan Rickman is a virtuoso of disdain in Theresa Rebeck's shiny, facile comedy about an ego-shredding writing teacher. Full of efficiently mapped reversals, the play feels as if it were written according to the literary equivalent of a GPS device. Sam Gold directs a bright cast that includes Lily Rabe and Hamish Linklater (1:40). John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Sister Act' When the good sisters of the Church of Philly Soul are rocking to raise the gothic rafters, led by the radiant Patina Miller, all is right with this stage adaptation of the hit movie about a club singer hiding out as a nun. Otherwise, this story of a bad girl teaching some good ones how to get down is innocuous but generic musical theater (2:30). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' This retooled mega-expensive musical is no longer an ungodly, indecipherable mess. It's just a bore. Recommended for less-than-precocious children with a hundred dollars to burn (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com. (Brantley)
'Stick Fly' Lydia R. Diamond's overstuffed but lively comedy-drama feels like a Tyler Perry melodrama (sans Madea) as revised by an academic specializing in issues of class in African-American culture. Condola Rashad gives the standout performance in the director Kenny Leon's uneven production, playing a young woman who embodies the problems of racial and class divisions that the other characters theorize about (2:15). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
'War Horse' This imported British weepie, adapted from Michael Morpurgo's children's book about a cavalry horse in World War I, has the most charismatic matinee idol seen in ages: that's Joey, the title character, a puppet brought to life-size life with ineffably theatrical magic (2:45). Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
Off Broadway
'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' The most famous bears since the three in the Goldilocks story are onstage in this adaptation of three of the titles in the long-running children's book series by Stan and Jan Berenstain. The show, by Michael Borton and Michael Slade, offers a pleasant hour for small theatergoers, with a pop-flavored score and actors who inhabit their fuzzy roles enthusiastically. But like the books, it's rather tame and tidy; after this many years of a formula, even the Berenstain cubs are starting to show their age (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com. (Laurel Graeber)
- 'Blood and Gifts' J. T. Rogers's drama gives a remarkably lucid and compelling account of how the American and British view of Afghanistan as a vital front in the cold war shaped the calamitous recent history of the country. Directed with a steady hand by Bartlett Sher and featuring a first-rate cast, including Jefferson Mays as a British agent right out of a Graham Greene novel (2:30). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
- 'The Canterbury Tales Remixed' In his delightful one-man show, Baba Brinkman, a medieval literature scholar, has adapted Chaucer's 14th-century masterpiece into a hip-hop show. The conceit may sound cheesy, but Mr. Brinkman makes a surprisingly persuasive case that the two art forms are thematically (and in some cases, rhetorically) similar. Both feature thugs, dangerously beautiful women, death-defying daredevils and Creflo Dollar-esque men selling salvation. Drawing on analogies to pop anthems and celebrities like Scarlett Johansson and Herman Cain, Mr. Brinkman demonstrates just how relevant these stories are (1:15). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Van Dam Street, South Village, (866) 811-4111, sohoplayhouse.com. (Catherine Rampell)
- 'The Cherry Orchard' Andrei Belgrader's heartbreakingly funny production of Chekhov's play, which features an excellent Dianne Wiest and John Turturro, finds the tragicomic rhythms in misfired words and gestures. A delicate slapstick ballet that illuminates Chekhov's singular vision of why people fail to connect (2:15). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, classicstage.org. (Brantley)
'Close Up Space' David Hyde Pierce plays a book editor estranged from his daughter in Molly Smith Metzler's listless, contrived comedy, which also features Michael Chernus as a quirky slacker and Rosie Perez as a preening novelist (1:20). City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Isherwood)
- 'Cymbeline' The Fiasco Theater's charming production brings lucidity, credibility and gentle magic to Shakespeare's bulky, convoluted tale of star-crossed lovers and schemers in old Britannia, with a multifarious cast of six on a naked stage. Directed by Noah Brody and Ben Steinfeld (2:40). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Brantley)
'Dancing at Lughnasa' Charlotte Moore's production falls a little short on atmosphere but works where it counts most, in the spirited performances of the five women playing the poor, unmarriageable Mundy sisters in the fictional Donegal town of Ballybeg in late summer 1936. Two decades after it was first seen, this transporting Tony-winning memory play by the Irish dramatist Brian Friel has lost none of its humanity or delicacy (2:05). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Rooney)
'The Devil's Music: The Life and Blues of Bessie Smith' Miche Braden plays the bawdy-talking, hooch-swilling Bessie Smith in this show that mixes Smith's songs with talk about her life, loves and career. That format seems a bit tired, but Ms. Braden gives it her all (1:20). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rachel Saltz)
'Once' This gently appealing, imaginatively staged new musical about funky young composers in love doesn't always sustain the understated charm of the 2006 cult movie that inspired it. But it often finds depth in its songs (by Glen Hansard and Marketa Irglova). John Tiffany directs a cast led by Steve Kazee and Cristin Milioti. New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 279-4200, nytw.org. (Brantley)
'Rent' Maybe they should call it ''Sublet.'' The young cast members who inhabit this premature revival of Jonathan Larson's watershed rock opera from 1996, directed by Michael Greif, never seem to feel truly at home. It is as if they're reluctant to make this show their own (2:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Silence! The Musical' A silly, coarse musical spin on ''The Silence of the Lambs'' as pitched to obsessive fans (1:30). 9th Space Theater at Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101, silencethemusical.com. (Jason Zinoman)
'Sistas: The Musical' The script is obvious, covering virtually every issue that might touch the lives of black women, but Dorothy Marcic's good-natured, low-budget musical is all about the songs. From ''Ain't Nobody's Business if I Do'' to ''Single Ladies,'' you could do a lot worse (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)
'Sleep No More' Punchdrunk, a British site-specific theater company, has taken over three abandoned warehouses to enact the sorry sights of the murderous Macbeths' career as a movable orgy. The result suggests what might have happened if Stanley Kubrick (of ''The Shining'') had designed the Haunted Mansion at Disney World (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com. (Brantley)
'Traces' An energizing evening of acrobatics from the Montreal troupe Seven Fingers. Think of it as cirque du cabaret, in which a group of distinctive talents get to show off the physical equivalents of individual song stylings (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'Voca People' This show features space aliens, but it's really all about a cappella music. The visitors have crash-landed on Earth in a ship powered by music, and lots of singing must be done to refuel their ship. The eight singers sound pretty good, despite some overamplification. But most of the show consists of fragments of songs, which becomes annoying; only when the cast is allowed to cut loose and deliver an entire song -- the Doors' ''People Are Strange'' is a highlight -- do things reach their full potential (1:30). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Neil Genzlinger)
Off Off Broadway
'Accidentally, Like a Martyr' Bars can be comforting refuges. They can also be lonely as hell. Grant James Varjas gives us both in his effective new ensemble play about the denizens of an East Village gay bar. The script is at times too tidy, but the cast is winning (1:30). Paradise Factory, 64 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101, theatermania.com. (Claudia La Rocco)
'That Ain't No Lady' The doyenne of New York's now-defunct annual outdoor drag festival, Wigstock, Lady Bunny purveys bawdy stand-up and pornographic pop song parodies in her first new cabaret act in 10 years. Looking like Dusty Springfield on steroids and introduced ''direct from the Port Authority men's room,'' the Lady and her show are definitely not for the prudish. But anyone feeling nostalgic for the seedy old days before Times Square became a tourist-friendly theme park will get a kick out of this evening of big hair and bad manners. Tuesday only (1:30). La Escuelita Cabaret Theater, 301 West 39th Street, (212) 631-0588, brownpapertickets.com. (Rooney)
Extravaganzas
'Big Apple Circus: Dream Big' This one-ring circus may not offer big cats, but it does have large rodents -- a capybara and an African crested porcupine, no less -- in its new show. Fortunately, the circus has lost none of its intimacy this season, whose highlights include terrific trapeze and acrobatics, bravura magic and the farewell antics of Barry Lubin, doing his final turn as the clown known as Grandma (2:15). Damrosch Park, 62nd Street between Columbus and Amsterdam Avenues, Lincoln Center, (888) 541-3750, bigapplecircus.org. (Graeber)
Long-Running Shows
'Anything Goes' Champagne decanted by Cole Porter (2:30). Stephen Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Billy Elliot the Musical' Ballet dreams in coal country (2:50). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Freckleface the Musical' Based on the actress Julianne Moore's picture book, this children's musical transcends the usual themes about celebrating the differences that make us special. MMAC Theater, 248 West 60th Street, (212) 239-6200; frecklefacestrawberrythemusical.com.
'Freud's Last Session' An imagined meeting of Sigmund Freud and C. S. Lewis (1:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Gauguin!' George Fischoff's one-man musical about Paul Gauguin. Saturday only (1:00). Nola Studios, 250 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Love, Loss, and What I Wore' Or shoes, bags and heartaches, as retailed by Nora and Delia Ephron and a rotating cast (1:20). Westside Downstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Mary Poppins' Supernanny (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Memphis' A musical focusing on an interracial romance in the early days of rock (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Million Dollar Quartet' This jukebox musical relates the day when Johnny Cash, Jerry Lee Lewis, Carl Perkins and Elvis Presley all got together for an impromptu jam (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Miss Abigail's Guide to Dating, Mating, & Marriage' Abigail dispenses advice about romance drawn from vintage health manuals and etiquette guides (1:30). Downstairs Cabaret Theater at Sofia's, 221 West 46th Street, missabigailsguide.com.
'Naked Boys Singing' That's who they are. That's what they do (1:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
'The Addams Family' (closes on Saturday) This musical, based on the Charles Addams cartoons that inspired the later, well-known TV show, offers a boy-meets-very-weird-family tale amid the broad humor and songs (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (David DeWitt)
'Bai Xi' (closes on Sunday) Young jaws drop as only slightly less young bodies flip, climb, contort and soar in this collection of traditional and modern Chinese acrobatics. Parents: You may want to move the mattress to the floor when you get home (1:30). New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street, (646) 562-2200, newvictory.org. (Eric Grode)
'Bonnie & Clyde' (closes on Friday) America's favorite kissin' outlaws (played by Laura Osnes and Jeremy Jordan) are on the run again in a modest, mildly tuneful musical by Don Black, Ivan Menchell and Frank Wildhorn. Directed by Jeff Calhoun, this show manages to find the blandness in the triple threat lure of youth, sex and violence (2:20). Gerald Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Cathy Rigby Is Peter Pan' (closes this Friday) Cathy Rigby is back yet again as the title character in a show that keeps young eyes wide open in wonder (2:10). Theater at Madison Square Garden, (866) 858-0008, theateratmsg.com. (Ken Jaworowski)
'Farm Boy' (closes on Sunday) Leaping ahead by two generations from ''War Horse,'' this sequel by the novelist Michael Morpurgo, adapted and directed for the stage by Daniel Buckroyd, casts its elegiac gaze over vanishing agricultural traditions in rural England. Presented as part of the Brits Off Broadway series, the short, family-friendly play uses simple old-fashioned (and puppet-free) storytelling to thread together the bond between a young man and his grandfather, the history of a rusty tractor and a memorable episode from late in the lives of Albert and Joey, the human and equine protagonists of ''War Horse'' (1:05). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200; 59e59.org. (Rooney)
'Happy Hour' (closes on Saturday) Two ounces misanthropy, one of anomie and a dash of bitters is the recipe in Ethan Coen's latest cocktail of short plays. Directed by Neil Pepe, these three slivers of bleak comedy add up to one wearying evening of theater (2:00). Peter Norton Space at Signature Theater Company, 552 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Charles Isherwood)
'Hugh Jackman: Back on Broadway' (closes on Sunday) This impossibly talented, impossibly energetic actor practices safe sex like nobody else. His polished song-and-dance show is like a great, guilt-free platonic one-night stand. All he asks is that you love him loving you loving him. It's hard to deny him that (2:00). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Ben Brantley)
'Kissing Sid James' (closes on Sunday) A lonely man and woman take a chance and spend the weekend together in this funny if overlong comedy, part of the Brits Off Broadway festival (1:50). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org. (Jaworowski)
'Neighbourhood Watch' (closes on Sunday) Alan Ayckbourn's latest comedy finds a mild-mannered middle-aged brother and sister (the excellent Matthew Cottle and Alexandra Mathie) leading a committee to rein in petty crime in their community, with results that practically turn their patch of British suburbia into a police state. The charms of the idiomatic cast help make up for the sometimes wayward plotting (2:35). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org. (Isherwood)
'Private Lives' (closes on Saturday) Richard Eyre's larky (if unnecessary) revival of Noel Coward's comedy of connubial fisticuffs makes a convincing case for both the pliable talents of Kim Cattrall and the bubbly pleasures forever on tap in this play. Paul Gross is excellent as Ms. Cattrall's partner in domestic demolition (2:20). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Shlemiel the First' (closes on Saturday) This enticing adaptation of Isaac Bashevis Singer's folk tales uses a delightful klezmer score and a game orchestra to prop up the frequently shopworn material. You may find yourself both checking your watch and tapping your toe (1:30). Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, 566 LaGuardia Place at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (866) 811-4111, skirballcenter.nyu.edu. (Grode)
- 'Sons of the Prophet' (closes on Sunday) Stephen Karam's wonderful new play is a comedy about how we endure the unendurable. Santino Fontana leads a flawless cast in a kaleidoscopic portrait of the woes that befall a family of Lebanese extraction and the people in their orbit. As smart and funny as it is deeply compassionate (1:45). Laura Pels Theater at the Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'HOW TO SUCCEED IN BUSINESS WITHOUT REALLY TRYING': Only a few more chances to see Daniel Radcliffe, above center in plaid, star in this 1961 Frank Loesser musical about corporate ladder climbing. (The Tony-winning John Larroquette, the tall guy in the back, is also completing his run.) Not a natural song-and-dance man, Mr. Radcliffe tries really, really hard as the show's amoral hero. His last performance is Sunday
 Darren Criss of ''Glee'' begins in the role on Tuesday, with Beau Bridges taking over for Mr. Larroquette that day as well. Rob Ashford directed this largely charm-free revival (2:40). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Ben Brantley) (PHOTOGRPAH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); DRAMA LITERATURE (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); THEATER (74%); MUSIC (71%); WRITERS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: WOMEN'S PROJECT (54%)

PERSON: DANIEL RADCLIFFE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1190 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'THE IRON LADY'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Polarizing Leader Fades Into the Twilight

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
The best thing about ''The Iron Lady'' may be that viewers going into the theater with strong views, pro or con, about its subject, the former British prime minister Margaret Thatcher, are likely to emerge in a state of greater ambivalence, even confusion. Those who know or care little about her will also be confused, but for different reasons.
Let's stick with the first group for the moment. Nearly anyone who was alive and reading newspapers -- or listening to English-language pop music -- in the Western world in the 1980s probably has an opinion about Mrs. Thatcher. To the ideological right she was a hero, even more than her friend Ronald Reagan, whereas the left saw her as a monster. There may have been some mixed feelings in the middle, but she herself had little use for such wishy-washiness, reserving special scorn for the ''wet'' and the ''wobbly'' on her own side. 
Nor, if the film is to be believed -- and it is, in its way, a credible enough portrait -- did she have much patience for the discussion or display of feelings of any kind. When a doctor asks the aging Thatcher (played with brilliant slyness and sly brilliance by Meryl Streep) how she is feeling, he is answered with an impromptu lecture on the over-emotionalism of modern culture and a stout defense of the supreme importance of thinking. Ideas are what matter, she insists, and I suspect that a great many people of various ages and political inclinations would agree.
But it does not seem that Phyllida Lloyd, who directed ''The Iron Lady,'' and Abi Morgan, who wrote the screenplay, are among them. Though the film pays lip service to Mrs. Thatcher's analytic intelligence and tactical shrewdness, its focus is on the drama and pathos of her personal life. In her dotage, watched over by professionally cheery minders, she putters about in a haze of half-senile nostalgia, occasionally drawn back into the glory and pain of the past.
Between flashbacks that trace her journey from modest beginnings -- the phrase ''grocer's daughter from Grantham'' is attached to her like a Homeric epithet -- through the leadership of the Conservative Party and beyond, Thatcher is visited by the ghost of her husband, Denis (Jim Broadbent), and by her daughter, Carol (Olivia Colman). Carol's twin brother, Mark, unseen in the film, is far away in South Africa, his distance emphasizing his mother's loneliness and isolation. Denis's shade is genial, mischievous company, but also a reminder of what has been lost and what might have been.
All of this is touching to witness. Stiff legged and slow moving, behind a discreetly applied ton of geriatric makeup, Ms. Streep provides, once again, a technically flawless impersonation that also seems to reveal the inner essence of a well-known person. Her portrayal of Mrs. Thatcher in power, while equally impeccable, is limited by the film's vague and cursory treatment of her political career. ''The Iron Lady'' is, above all, the story of a widow and a half-abandoned mother who happened -- didn't you know? -- to have been one of the most powerful and consequential women of the 20th century.
Would the life of a male politician be rendered this way? Is this an unfair question? It seems to me that Ms. Lloyd and Ms. Morgan try to have it both ways, to celebrate their heroine as a feminist pioneer while showing her to be tragically unfulfilled according to traditional standards of feminine accomplishment. On her first day as a member of Parliament, Margaret (played in those early years by Alexandra Roach, with Harry Lloyd as a smiling young Denis) pulls out of the driveway as her children chase after her car, begging her not to leave them. Later she announces her intention to seek the party leadership on the day that Carol has passed her driving test, earning a rare rebuke from her husband for putting herself first.
As a young woman she faces down the condescension of powerful and entitled Tories with a mixture of charm and steel, communicating her acute awareness of sexism and class prejudice in a way that makes her eventual triumph inspiring. But as the film reckons the cost of this triumph to Mrs. Thatcher and her family, it suggests that the double standards she fought against still flourish. In trying to make her more human, more sympathetic, the filmmakers turn a self-made, highly original woman into something of a cliche.
They also manage to push the great passion and distinction of her life -- her pursuit and exercise of power -- into the background. This is not unusual in biopics, which frequently turn artists into substance abusers and sexual adventurers who just happened to cut a few records or paint a few pictures on their way to redemption. ''The Iron Lady,'' following this template, makes a particular hash of British history, compressing social and economic turmoil into a shorthand that resembles a chronologically scrambled British version of Billy Joel's ''We Didn't Start the Fire.'' (Miners' strike/Falklands War/I can't take it any more ... .)
In general the film is more attuned to process than to policy, which is conveyed by means of a few catch phrases and snippets of archival news footage. We learn that Mrs. Thatcher took on the unions, the I.R.A., the Argentine junta and more than a few of her allies, at times angering segments of the public to the point of insurrection while winning three consecutive elections, a modern record. The cabinet meetings and backroom dealings are quite entertaining. Richard E. Grant as Michael Heseltine and Anthony Head as Geoffrey Howe stand out from the crowd of grousing toffs in chalk-striped suits, though of course not as much as Ms. Streep. But it will be hard for anyone not familiar with the story to have much sense of what is at stake.
As for ''The Iron Lady'' itself, beyond the challenge it poses for Ms. Streep, its own reason for being is a bit obscure. It is likely to be the definitive screen treatment of Mrs. Thatcher, at least for a while, and yet it does not really define her in any surprising or trenchant way. You are left with the impression of an old woman who can't quite remember who she used to be and of a movie that is not so sure either.
''The Iron Lady'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). Strong language, some violence and nonsexual nudity.
THE IRON LADY
Opens on Friday in New York and Los Angeles.
Directed by Phyllida Lloyd; written by Abi Morgan; director of photography, Elliot Davis; edited by Justine Wright; music by Thomas Newman; production design by Simon Elliott; costumes by Consolata Boyle; produced by Damian Jones; released by the Weinstein Company. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes.
WITH: Meryl Streep (Margaret Thatcher), Jim Broadbent (Denis Thatcher), Olivia Colman (Carol Thatcher), Roger Allam (Gordon Reece), Susan Brown (June), Nick Dunning (Jim Prior), Nicholas Farrell (Airey Neave), Iain Glen (Alfred Roberts), Richard E. Grant (Michael Heseltine), Alexandra Roach (Young Margaret Thatcher), Harry Lloyd (Young Denis Thatcher) and Anthony Head (Geoffrey Howe).
THE IRON LADY
Opens on Friday in New York and Los Angeles.
Directed by Phyllida Lloyd; written by Abi Morgan; director of photography, Elliot Davis; edited by Justine Wright; music by Thomas Newman; production design by Simon Elliott; costumes by Consolata Boyle; produced by Damian Jones; released by the Weinstein Company. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes.
WITH: Meryl Streep (Margaret Thatcher), Jim Broadbent (Denis Thatcher), Olivia Colman (Carol Thatcher), Roger Allam (Gordon Reece), Susan Brown (June), Nick Dunning (Jim Prior), Nicholas Farrell (Airey Neave), Iain Glen (Alfred Roberts), Richard E. Grant (Michael Heseltine), Alexandra Roach (Young Margaret Thatcher), Harry Lloyd (Young Denis Thatcher) and Anthony Head (Geoffrey Howe).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Iron Lady , with Meryl Streep as Margaret Thatcher, opens Friday in New York and Los Angeles. (C1)
Meryl Streep as Margaret Thatcher and Jim Broadbent as her husband, Denis, in Phyllida Lloyd's ''Iron Lady.''
 Ms. Streep seems to convey a politician's inner self. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX BAILEY/WEINSTEIN COMPANY) (C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); GERIATRICS (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (60%); POP & ROCK (55%)

PERSON: MERYL STREEP (89%); RONALD REAGAN (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (91%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Iron Lady, The (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1191 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: David Axelrod Is at Home Waging What May Be His Last Campaign

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
James Warren is a columnist for the Chicago News Cooperative.
Nobody appeared to be discussing Washington's latest obsession -- payroll taxes -- or turned a head as a top presidential adviser ambled into the packed Streeterville breakfast joint.
Indeed, as David Axelrod waded into this crowd a few days ago, and apologized sincerely for being late, it was easy to understand why. 
He resembled a guy returning from a YMCA pickup game in sweatpants, a Northwestern basketball jacket and a baseball cap. It was not the look of Washington's K Street -- where heavy hitters sport the Pinstriped Political Leech Collection -- but more of John Goodman, George Wendt or Chris Farley playing Chicago ''Super Fans'' on ''Saturday Night Live'' in the 1990s.
If he'd greeted me with ''Da Bears!'' or said he was tardy because a ''brudder had annuder heart attack due to massive weight gain,'' it would have fit seamlessly.
But, of course, Mr. Axelrod is irrevocably set apart by historic events. Indeed, it was four years ago this week that I ran into him as he rushed down an O'Hare International Airport concourse for yet another flight to Des Moines.
The Iowa caucuses loomed, and his candidate, Senator Barack Obama, was in a dogfight with Hillary Clinton and John Edwards, with Mrs. Clinton well ahead in national polls.
And though Mr. Obama was pulling ahead in polls for the New Hampshire primary, which he would lose, much of the smart money figured that he could not win the Democratic presidential nomination.
Now Mr. Axelrod is focused on just the general election and an incumbent's campaign that he will help shepherd from here -- he can easily walk to campaign headquarters from home -- with a characteristic mix of idealism and caution-filled pragmatism.
''Prepare for the worst, hope for the best,'' he said.
It's a mantra that, along with brains and personal decency, helped him attain a place in American political history. I am reminded of that after I provided a little help to a friend, the author-journalist David Maraniss, who has an Obama biography due out next year.
The first of two books, it contains rich new material, some underscoring a remarkable personal odyssey. And while Volume 1 predates the presidential run, Mr. Axelrod's role in the second book is assured since, well, he was perhaps the key.
''He thought big in the same way Obama did, he had something to prove in the same way Obama did,'' said Mr. Maraniss. ''They both had holes in their lives in different personal ways, Axe was able to connect him to power in a way that previous consultants could not, and they shared a sensibility of being outsiders who could play the inside game.''
Once-unimaginable doors have opened, including meeting world figures, discussing future projects with heads of major institutions or flying to California this week for a few well-compensated speeches before the campaign ramps up.
He knows his good fortune and remains surgically attached to his BlackBerry as he deals with unceasing campaign and related White House matters.
He's much the same fellow against whom I competed as a reporter long ago when he was at The Tribune and I was at The Sun-Times. Of course, he's now 56 and happily married for 33 years, with three adult children. He has a sterling reputation and few challenges left, so don't bet against a part-time return to journalism after what is likely to be his final campaign.
He remains attentive to local politics, including congressional races. Ones he finds fascinating include the Second District Democratic primary between Representative Jesse Jackson Jr. and former Representative Debbie Halvorson; and the Eighth District Democratic primary, between Tammy Duckworth and Raja Krishnamoorthi, with the winner facing Joe Walsh, a Tea Party incumbent.
As for Mr. Obama, ''We're in a better place than in August,'' he said. He believes that the president is sticking to an increasingly effective message on economic recovery and that Republicans are hurt by their ''antics'' in Congress and what he calls fidelity to disproven, ''pre-economic-crisis'' policies.
The lines of attack are clear vis-a-vis Mitt Romney, his probable opponent: erratic on policy positions, too trusting of the free market, too doubting of government's role, and a private-sector record of shutting plants and outsourcing jobs.
But there always is Mr. Axelrod's grounded sense of context and avoidance of hubris.
''We won a 'landslide' in '08, and 47 percent voted for someone else,'' said the strategist amid the din. ''And that was with the wind at our back.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); WRITERS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (75%); CAUCUSES (75%); AIRPORTS (71%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (71%); BASKETBALL (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BEARS (56%)

PERSON: DAVID AXELROD (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (74%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1192 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Voters Examining Candidates, Often to a Fault

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and ASHLEY PARKER; Steven Yaccino and Armando Montano contributed reporting.

 BODY:
DES MOINES -- Jonathan Gabhart, a 21-year-old college student from Spencer, Iowa, is leaning toward voting for Ron Paul because of the Texas lawmaker's unpolished speaking style -- a ''high-pitched, squirrelly voice,'' as he put it. ''He seems like a real person because of his eccentricities.''
Andy Schwaegler, a 45-year-old tree farmer from Orford, N.H., is drawn to Mitt Romney because the well-coiffed candidate reminds him of his father, a business executive. ''It's something about the way he carries himself,'' Mr. Schwaegler said.
Nancy Weaver, a 60-year-old retiree in Grinnell, Iowa, favors Representative Michele Bachmann because the congresswoman raised 23 foster children. ''That's a huge endeavor for any man or woman,'' she said. 
By virtually all accounts, the 2012 presidential race was to hinge on a restless electorate's overriding worry, the troubled American economy.
But in three dozen interviews across Iowa and New Hampshire over the past few days, voters readily acknowledged that their decisions would be driven as much by personal chemistry and biography as by political positions and policy.
They were hard-pressed to recall details of the candidates' plans to reduce taxes, create jobs and shrink the government.
Yet they knew about the marriages and mannerisms, the faith and careers of the candidates, and they brimmed with unvarnished opinions about any trait that strikes them as admirable -- or just as likely, annoying.
''It drives me crazy,'' Rose Williams, a retired teacher in Bridgewater, N.H., said of Mr. Romney's voice. ''When he's on TV or on a commercial, I put it on mute.''
Gut reactions have long guided how voters select their president, but the strong responses provoked by the large, disparate Republican field help explain why voters seem to flirt with one candidate after another, hunting for a comfortable fit in a time of uncertainty.
''Personality does matter,'' said Michael Dee, a lawyer in West Des Moines. ''Because this person is going to be on TV all the time as president.''
The emphasis on character and personality is not accidental; to some degree, candidates deliberately play up elements of their lives that appeal to conservative voters, especially when compared with the personal lives of their rivals.
Mr. Romney has rolled out a series of television commercials narrated by Ann, his wife of 42 years. Mrs. Bachmann rarely misses a chance to talk about raising her foster children. And Rick Santorum, the former senator from Pennsylvania, has put photographs of his seven children on political brochures, with this detail: ''Rick and his wife, Karen, have home-schooled each of their children.''
That last fact was well known to Dwayne Kriegel, a postal carrier in Grinnell, who is backing Mr. Santorum in the caucus on Tuesday. ''He's passionate about his dedication to family values,'' Mr. Kriegel said. ''The others say what they think the voters want to hear, while he lives it.''
Those interviewed were equally as outspoken about what qualities repel them. Phil Dillingham, 62, a retired manager at Ford Motor Company who lives in Moultonborough, N.H., said he could never vote for Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, because of what he called the candidate's swagger.
''He strikes me as too Bushlike, too strutty, too Texan,'' Mr. Dillingham said.
Eva Dunn, 60, a retired lieutenant colonel in the Air Force, has no patience for Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former governor of Utah. Her objection: his demeanor in the debates.
''He comes across as a preacher, and I just want to take his hands and tie them behind his back because he's always pleading,'' she said.
''Holier-than-thou,'' Ms. Dunn added.
Several voters said they were heavily influenced by a single strand of the candidates' lives that they felt had illuminated their character and values.
Harry Spain, 85, who lives in Belmont, N.H., said he was moved by the story of how Mr. Romney and his sons had rescued a family whose boat sank on the state's Lake Winnipesaukee.
''It tells me he would get done what needs to be done at any moment,'' Mr. Spain said.
After watching 13 debates and nearly a year of campaigning in Iowa and New Hampshire, many voters described the candidates' personalities in remarkably similar terms. They viewed Mr. Romney, for instance, as the handsome, strait-laced businessman; Newt Gingrich as a brilliant but volatile politician with ''baggage''; Mr. Santorum as a deeply moral family man; and Mr. Paul as refreshingly blunt yet oddly out of sync.
Ann Szot, of Keene, N.H., said her husband ''thinks Ron Paul looks like he should be sitting on a park bench feeding pigeons.'' Yet he still plans to vote for him, she said.
With the exception of Mr. Paul's views on foreign policy, voters tend not to see huge differences on major issues among the Republican candidates. That may encourage them to zero in on finer distinctions.
Again and again, voters pointed to the candidates' personal lives as a guide to how they would lead the country. Mr. Gingrich's two divorces, and his admission of adultery, gave pause to a number of people.
''You wonder in times if it will affect his judgment,'' said Zack Pickard, 36, a software salesman in New Sharon, Iowa. ''Are we going to be distracted by his social missteps? It's a distraction. Your leader should not be distracted.''
Kimber Harmon, 54, who described herself as a homemaker in Hollis, N.H., favors Mr. Huntsman, a long-married father of seven, explicitly contrasting his personal life with that of Mr. Gingrich. ''I've been married for 32 years,'' she said. ''It bothers me.''
Mr. Huntsman's brood, she said, feels like a natural first family. ''You've got to think of who you want to see greeting guests at the front door of the White House,'' she said.
For candidates who have sometimes labored years over policy books and memoirs, stump speeches and sales pitches, campaigning for president means accepting seemingly whimsical judgments and serendipitous connections.
Lawrence Flint, of Newport, N.H., supports Mr. Huntsman, because of his family's longtime financial support of the Senior Games, an Olympics-style event for those over 50, a favorite of Mr. Flint's. ''He is a very generous man,'' said Mr. Flint, 65. ''You can tell that he is concerned about people.''
Mr. Perry, meanwhile, has found a kindred spirit in William Borrebach, 64, a retired lawyer who lives in Center Sandwich, N.H.
After Mr. Perry's memory lapse at one of the debates, Mr. Borrebach said that he could relate to the governor. ''Man, I've had those myself all the time.''
Mr. Perry, he concluded, ''is one of us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Iowans listened to Newt Gingrich on Wednesday in Le Mars, north of Sioux City. The state's caucuses will take place on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
MICHAEL DEE: A lawyer in West Des Moines. ''Personality does matter,'' he said. ''Because this person is going to be on TV all the time as president.''
NANCY WEAVER: The Grinnell, Iowa, retiree favors Representative Michele Bachmann because the candidate raised 23 foster children. ''That's a huge endeavor,'' she said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PATRICK T. FALLON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
ROSE WILLIAMS: Mitt Romney's voice ''drives me crazy,'' said the retired teacher in Bridgewater, N.H. ''When he's on TV or on a commercial, I put it on mute.''
 ANDY SCHWAEGLER: He likes Mr. Romney, who reminds him of his father, a business executive. ''It's something about the way he carries himself,'' said Mr. Schwaegler, a tree farmer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSEPH SYWENKYJ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FOSTER CARE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); HOME SCHOOLING (73%); MARRIAGE (73%); CONSERVATISM (71%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (66%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (63%); JOB CREATION (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); MICHELE BACHMANN (78%); RON PAUL (73%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (91%) IOWA, USA (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1193 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Iran and the Strait

 BODY:
Iran's threat to shut the Strait of Hormuz -- one-fifth of the world's oil trade passes through there -- if the United States and Europe press ahead with new sanctions is unacceptable. The Obama administration is right to signal, in deliberately moderated ways, that Washington will not back off if Tehran ever attempts to carry it out. 
A show of American naval force kept the strait open to oil tankers during the Iran-Iraq war in the 1980s. A Fifth Fleet spokeswoman usefully reminded Iran this week that the Navy always stands ''ready to counter malevolent actions to ensure freedom of navigation.'' Oil markets reacted calmly, at least for now, with no price spikes.
Whether or not Tehran is bluffing (or trying to drive up oil prices), Washington will not back down and Europe should not. More than five years after the United Nations Security Council ordered it to stop, Iran is still enriching uranium and mastering other technologies that would allow it to build a nuclear weapon. According to the latest report from United Nations inspectors, Iran has created computer models of nuclear explosions, conducted experiments on nuclear triggers and completed advanced research on a warhead that could be delivered by a medium-range missile.
Eighteen months have passed since the last round of Security Council sanctions. American calls to tighten the economic screws by, for example, concentrating on Iran's petrochemical industry have been stymied by Russia and China. Europe, however, has been increasingly willing to impose its own investment restrictions. And Iran's latest threat is a clear sign of its growing economic desperation.
The new sanctions Tehran hopes to fend off are a United States law that would penalize foreign companies that do business with Iran's central bank -- which they must do to buy Iranian oil -- and a tough new round of punishments, possibly including an oil embargo, now being considered by the European Union.
We strongly support applying maximum economic pressure to constrain Iran's nuclear ambitions. But we think Washington penalizing foreign companies for engaging in otherwise lawful commerce with Iran is not the right way to go about it and could backfire, alienating European allies at a time when they are preparing to impose their own stronger sanctions. President Obama can limit the damage by making full use of a waiver, which allows him to block the penalties if they would threaten national security or cause oil prices to soar.
Europe must also find the best way to increase pressure on Iran's government. We are not sure how a full-scale oil embargo would affect the global economy, but, before proceeding, the European Union should carefully weigh the consequences. Meanwhile, it should expand its list of targeted Iranian companies, officials and government entities. And both Europe and Washington should mount a new push on Russia and China to agree to toughened United Nations sanctions.
Tehran's latest threat to block global oil shipping should leave no doubt about its recklessness and its contempt for international law. This is not a government any country should want to see acquire nuclear weapons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); BULK SHIPPING (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); FREEDOM OF THE SEAS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); NAVIES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); PETROCHEMICALS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (69%); GLOBALIZATION (63%); FINES & PENALTIES (57%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); US NAVY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%) EUROPE (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); IRAN (91%); IRAQ (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1194 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: At Sears, Excessive Confidence Has a Price

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
Becoming very rich can show that you are a genius.
But thinking you are a genius can turn out to be a very expensive folly.
Perhaps Eddie Lampert, the 49-year-old hedge fund manager who fancied himself the next Warren Buffett, has figured that out by now. Whether or not he has, it may be too late for many of the quarter-million people who work for Sears and Kmart, not to mention for investors who believed the hype.
It was only five years ago that his genius became clear. He had used financial alchemy to produce gold from retail dross. He had taken control of Kmart as it emerged from a bankruptcy, and turned it into a valuable company. He had then taken over what had once been the greatest retail name in America -- Sears. A merger of the two was to produce synergies and savings.
The new Kmart came out of bankruptcy in 2003 under his control -- he had acquired debt in the company at low prices. Shares began trading at $15. By the time the company acquired Sears in 2005 and was renamed Sears Holdings, the price was above $130. It peaked at more than $190 in early 2007, on enthusiasm for the idea that Sears was sitting on a gold mine in real estate that could be turned into cash if the stores did not perform well. 
Now we may find out if that theory will work. As an operating company, the new Sears is in trouble. So it plans to cut costs, fire employees and sell real estate. This week Sears reported that same-store sales for the last two months were down 5.2 percent from a year ago. There are a few weeks left before its fiscal year ends on Jan. 28, but Sears faces a stark reality: Retailers make all their money at Christmas. Or they don't make money at all.
Through the years that Mr. Lampert dominated Sears as chairman and principal shareholder, he made it clear that he thought retailers worried too much about sales growth and not enough about profitability. He thought they spent too much money on fixing up their stores. He hired retail executives, then shoved them aside when they did not accept his wisdom. The current chief executive, Lou D'Ambrosio, had a long career at I.B.M. and ran Avaya, a technology company that went private during his tenure. Mr. D'Ambrosio never had any experience in retail before he was hired to run Sears.
Mr. Lampert declined to be interviewed this week. His last public comment on Sears seems to have come nearly a year ago, when he told shareholders the company's ''financial results remain at unacceptable levels.'' They are much worse now.
When things were better, he wrote to investors more frequently. At the end of 2005, he explained why the rest of the industry was foolish:
''One subject where the conventional wisdom has been much on display recently is the issue of capital expenditures. As I made clear in my very first letter to shareholders, we do not subscribe to the view (seemingly widely held) that more is better, or that there is a certain amount that must be spent on cap ex every year. The question we ask at Sears (and I believe every business should ask) is: 'What is the most productive way to allocate the capital that we have on hand and the cash flow the company generates?' In some cases, spending money on the construction of new stores or the updating of existing stores produces real bottom-line benefits. In those cases, increasing capital expenditures is an attractive option. But if the analysis shows that allocating capital in some other way -- for example, on acquisitions or stock repurchases -- will generate superior returns, then it would be a mistake to plow money into capital expenditures merely because that is the 'accepted practice' or 'expected.' (That approach -- of uncritically following accepted or prevailing practice -- is what led many telecom companies astray as they tried to 'keep up' with WorldCom's expenditure levels.)''
That comparison to WorldCom was telling. If he was going to seek out an example of the folly of following conventional wisdom, he might have tried to find one that did not involve fraud.
The problem that other companies faced was that WorldCom's numbers were made up. It claimed to be making lots of capital investments in order to hide operating costs. Trying to match phony numbers was a recipe for frustration. But there is no reason to think that other retailers did not spend money on fixing up their stores to make them more attractive. They did, and customers noticed.
In letters to investors, Mr. Lampert told them to pay attention to earnings before depreciation charges, not to net earnings under normal accounting rules. That was a good idea, he said, because the depreciation expense reflected the excessive capital spending of the past, which would not be repeated.
By his preferred measure, the company now estimates that it will have a loss of a few hundred million dollars for the fiscal year ending in January. The net loss -- the one using those pesky accounting rules -- seems likely to be in the billions as the company takes lots of write-downs.
In the first few years of Mr. Lampert's reign, the company did pay down debt. But more recently, it has been increasing its borrowing. To get by, it is going to have to borrow more.
On Thursday, Fitch cut Sears's bond rating to CCC, the nether regions of junk. It warned that ''there is a heightened risk of restructuring over the next 24 months.''
In Mr. Lampert's 2005 letter, he pointed to two types of investment that might be superior to capital spending. One was acquisitions. The other was share repurchases. There is no doubt that he found the latter attractive.
From February 2005 through October of this year, Sears Holdings spent $6.1 billion on share repurchases, nearly double the $3.2 billion it spent on capital expenditures. Over the same period, depreciation expenses -- a reflection of the old capital spending that Mr. Lampert deemed excessive -- came to $6.6 billion.
I don't know what would have been accomplished by spending more on capital expenditures, but it could not have been that much worse an investment than were the share repurchases. The company spent an average of $103.58 a share over the period, three times the current value of the shares, as it bought nearly 59 million shares.
Now Sears has 107 million shares outstanding, with a total market value of $3.6 billion.
It will be sad if Sears goes out of business, but there is precedent. Its predecessor as the No. 1 retailer in America, Montgomery Ward, lost that distinction because of a somewhat similar decision not to invest in its business. That came after World War II, when its chief executive, Sewell Avery, was sure a depression was coming and that he would be able to pick up the pieces when Sears went broke from building all those stores in the newly growing suburbs. It took decades for Montgomery Ward to vanish, but it eventually did.
This time, Mr. Lampert was sure that he knew better than all those retailers who believed that continued investment in facilities was necessary to avoid alienating customers and losing out to competitors.
To be fair, Mr. Lampert was no hypocrite. He does not seem to have sold stock when the company was buying, and it appears that the shares, which closed Thursday at $32.90, are still worth more than he paid. But his wealth -- and that of investors in his hedge fund -- has plunged. The winners were the former Sears shareholders who decided to take the company's money and invest in some other company, perhaps one run by a boss who was less certain of his own brilliance.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edward S. Lampert, chairman of Sears Holdings, has often said other retailers worried too much about sales growth. Now the company plans to cut costs, fire employees and sell real estate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VINCENT LAFORET/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) CHARTS: SEARS HOLDINGS: SHARE PRICE: Monthly, beginning in April 2003, when Kmart came out of bankruptcy
 SHARE REPURCHASES AND CAPITAL SPENDING: Annually, fiscal years* (Sources: Bloomberg, company filings) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); SAME STORE SALES (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); GOING PRIVATE (73%); MERGERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (67%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (50%)

COMPANY: SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (90%); AVAYA INC (51%)

TICKER: SHLD (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (90%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (90%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (51%)

PERSON: EDDIE LAMPERT (91%); WARREN BUFFETT (57%); LOUIS J D'AMBROSIO (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1195 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: For Entrepreneurial 'Change Agents,' a Green M.B.A.

BYLINE: JIM WITKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Bard College introduces a two-year masters program focusing on sustainable business practices that involves intensive thematic weekend conclaves. 

 BODY:
As we noted in a post in August about a new survey, an increasing number of colleges are beginning to offer courses or entire programs devoted to green business practices in response to growing demand. 
Such programs teach students how to manage a business's social and environmental impact in addition to focusing on profits. The latest school to add its name to this list is Bard, the liberal arts college just north of New York City, which this month announced that it would begin offering an M.B.A. program centering on sustainability.
The two-year program will be based in New York City, and classes are to begin next fall. Eban Goodstein, the program's director, said in an interview that the new M.B.A. would integrate sustainable business principles into the entire curriculum in a way that parallels programs offered by the Presidio Graduate School and the Bainbridge Graduate Institute on the West Coast.
 In this format, classes meet over long weekend residencies once a month, five times per semester. During the semester, students are required to take part in online instruction between the residencies.

Requiring students in the program to meet in person just once a month should attract applicants, visiting faculty members and experts in sustainability from a wider geographic area, Dr. Goodstein hopes. That format should also support the program's sustainability-themed curriculum, he said. 
"We are taking advantage of the weekend structure to integrate classes around particular themes," Dr. Goodstein said, "For example, classes on leadership, economics, accounting and sustainability will coalesce on different weekends around themes like 'the new information landscape' or 'stakeholders and communication.' "
To gain real-world business experience, first-year students in the program will also participate in the NYCLab, a yearlong internship-style consultancy that involves working on projects with area businesses, government agencies and nonprofits.
Dr. Goodstein anticipates that many graduates will start their own green-minded businesses and that others will work for established companies as "intrapreneurs," blending sustainability initiatives into every function of a business, including operations, marketing, finance and strategy.
Dr. Goodstein, who also teaches within the Bard Center for Environmental Policy, said he was motivated to start the M.B.A. program because some people embarking on a business career really do see themselves as "change agents" -- individuals who "come to get an education so they can have an impact on the world." 
At the same time, solving environmental problems "has become more than just a policy issue," he said. "Business is now a critical component of the solution."

        
Weaving 'Climate' Into 'Corporate'
        
Business Studies Become Environmentally Friendly
        
Taking Stock of Campus Sustainability
        
Go Wild, Homeowner Tells Her Yard
        
Life Is Always Greener ... in Brooklyn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CURRICULA (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%) Bard College; Eban Goodstein; m.b.a.; masters in business; sustainability; Goodstein, Eban; Business Schools; Colleges and Universities; Sustainable Living; New York City; Business; Living

PERSON: Goodstein, Eban

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1196 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Our Smartest and Dumbest Columns of 2011

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: A look back through a year's worth of blog posts yields 10 pieces that now look pretty smart -- and another 10 that look completely dumb. 

 BODY:
Some of my favorite columnists and bloggers have started something called a prediction audit, which looks back at their year of writing and evaluates which of their articles seem to have been the most and the least prescient.
I'm a little reluctant to apply the term "prediction" in this context since we're pretty careful about what we call a prediction around here, and usually try to couch any forecasts or predictions in the language of probability and uncertainty. Nevertheless, I like the accountability that this exercise implies. So I've gone back through a year's worth of blog posts and identified 10 pieces of analysis or commentary that look pretty smart in retrospect -- and another 10 that look completely dumb. 
Let's start with the dumb ones:
1. The very day that my article entitled "Derek Jeter and the Curse of Age" was published in The Week in Review, Jeter hit two home runs. Overcoming a slow start, Jeter hit better than .300 for the balance of the season after the article was published.
2. Speaking of bad timing, I wrote an article critiquing pundits for dismissing Herman Cain's campaign -- just four days before his sexual harassment scandal broke.
3. I wrote on Aug. 4 that the crash in the stock market that day should not be a major concern for President Obama. But it was associated with a period during which his approval ratings declined materially. (More broadly, my subsequent research suggests that one should take a broad view of the economy rather than fetishizing or dismissing particular economic indicators.)

4. Our NCAA tournament projections thought Connecticut was overrated and dismissed their late-season momentum. They won the National Championship.
5. With occasional exception, this blog was much too bullish on Rick Perry's candidacy, skeptical of his initial decline in the polls and then anticipating a rebound that has not yet occurred.
6. We highlighted that the endorsement of The Union Leader of Manchester, N.H., which backed Newt Gingrich, has historically had some power to predict the winner of the New Hampshire primary. Mr. Gingrich's chances of winning the primary now appear remote.
7. Likewise, we touted the predictive power of the Ames Straw Poll, which was won by Michele Bachmann, but her fortunes have been on a long decline in Iowa.
8. This piece noting how poorly Democrats performed in the special elections of Sept. 13 looks a bit overwrought in retrospect. On the other hand, this article from August seems to have overreacted to a shift in Gallup's generic ballot polling toward the Democrats. The forecast for control of Congress remains highly ambiguous and uncertain and I'm not sure we've learned very much about it over the course of this year.
9. I thought that liberal Democrats in Congress had leverage in influencing the outcome of the debt ceiling debate. It was certainly not apparent in the deal that resulted.
10. In January, we called the Seattle Seahawks the worst playoff team ever. A few days later, they upset the heavily favored New Orleans Saints.
On the other hand, some things that I wrote held up quite well:
1. This blog was quite bullish on Mitt Romney's campaign early on, on the basis of both polling and strategic factors. We also recommended on repeated occasions that Mr. Romney's campaign make a strong play for Iowa, something his campaign has chosen to do.
2. Although we were never tempted to take Donald Trump seriously, we did point out that his rise in the polls signaled tension between the Republican establishment and base voters, something that would play out through the primary season.
3. I'll take some credit for pointing out that the Boston Red Sox' pitchers really did seem to be choking before they culminated one of the most remarkable collapses in baseball history.
4. I correctly guessed in both May and June that the conditions were very favorable for Rick Perry to enter the presidential race, but unfavorable for Sarah Palin.
5. We were early skeptics about Jon M. Huntsman Jr.'s path to the nomination. The same goes for Tim Pawlenty.
6. I mentioned some problems earlier with this blog's coverage of Herman Cain. But I did anticipate back in May that Mr. Cain could have a real presence in the race given that his polling was strong relative to initially poor name recognition. I also jumped off the bandwagon quickly once the scandal broke, noting that the sexual harassment accusations against him were almost certain to undermine his campaign.
7. We were quick to anticipate Newt Gingrich's polling surge, while at the same time warning that it could be transient; we were also quick to identify Mr. Gingrich's decline. However, I cannot take as much credit as other analysts who said the whole time that he had no chance of winning the nomination.
8. I anticipated that the debt ceiling negotiations were coming to a resolution several days before they actually did, somewhat in contrast to the conventional wisdom at that time.
9. We noted that "The King's Speech," and not "The Social Network," was likely to win the Academy Award for Best Picture. (I would have voted for "True Grit.")
10. This is frankly a case of making the right prediction for some of the wrong reasons, since the storm produced most of its damage throughout New England and upstate New York rather than in New York City itself, but I looked at past data to project that Hurricane Irene could cause a large amount of financial damage relative to its wind speed, as it did.
Thank you for spending your time reading this blog in 2011, and we look forward to a very busy 2012.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (91%); WRITERS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); LIBERALISM (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); POLITICS (69%); SCANDALS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (63%); TOURNAMENTS (63%); SEX SCANDALS (51%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (51%) Economics; Politics

PERSON: DEREK JETER (72%); NEWT GINGRICH (50%); RICK PERRY (50%); HERMAN CAIN (50%); MICHELE BACHMANN (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (52%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



1197 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Sportcraft Files for Liquidation

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: The Chapter 7 filing by the privately held Sportcraft is a blow to its majority owner, Wasserstein &#038; Company, the private equity firm that manages money for the estate of the late Bruce Wasserstein and other investors. 

 BODY:
10:16 a.m. | Updated 
Sportcraft, a maker of recreational sports gear like pool tables, air hockey and horseshoe sets, filed for liquidation in the United States Bankruptcy Court of New Jersey on Friday.
The Chapter 7 filing by the privately held Sportcraft is a blow to its majority owner, Wasserstein & Company, the private equity firm that manages money for the estate of the late Bruce Wasserstein and other investors. 
Another Wasserstein portfolio company, Harry & David, filed for bankruptcy protection after struggling amid a plunge in demand for its signature gift baskets.
Unlike Harry & David and many companies that have filed for bankruptcy this year, Sportcraft was not felled by debt woes. Instead, its troubles stemmed from a variety of woes, including rising manufacturing costs in China and disasters in the Midwest that sapped demand for bocce balls and ping-pong tables.
Because of the company's small size, it was also subject to pricing pressure from vendors like Wal-Mart and Target and rising costs for raw materials.
Earlier this year, Wasserstein infused Sportcraft with additional cash and tried to sell the company, hoping that a larger owner would be able to demand better prices for both raw materials and the final products. But sales efforts fell apart in recent days, said the person briefed on the matter, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
Sportcraft's board had decided that a liquidation sale would generate the most value for creditors, instead of trying to reorganize under Chapter 11 protection.
Employees of Sportcraft were notified of the company's pending liquidation in recent days.
A spokeswoman for Wasserstein said in a statement: "As a small provider of specialty products into mass channels, Sportcraft was not able to overcome the effects of the protracted difficult economic environment, in particular sustained high unemployment and depressed housing markets, which have impacted demand for table games and other home recreational products."
The company is based in the Budd Lake section of Mount Olive, N.J., and maintains an office in Shenzhen, China. It has close to 80 employees based in the United States and roughly 60 employees in China.
Sportcraft's Chapter 7 petition

        
Harry & David Files for Bankruptcy
        
Harry & David's Future in 'Doubt'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (94%); PRIVATE EQUITY (92%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (91%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); PETITIONS (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); RETAILERS (72%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); SALES & SELLING (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%) Bankruptcy; Bruce Wasserstein; Harry & David; liquidation; Sportcraft; Wasserstein & Company; Bankruptcies; Cyclical Consumer Goods; Private Equity; Restructuring/Bankruptcy; Retail/Leisure; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: WASSERSTEIN & CO LP (58%)

PERSON: BRUCE WASSERSTEIN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); MIDWEST USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); SOUTH CHINA (55%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1198 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Obama and Republicans Seek to Define 2012

BYLINE: RICHARD W. STEVENSON


HIGHLIGHT: Republicans have been framing this as a historic election, while President Obama has sought to define 2012 as a clash of competing visions for ensuring the future for an American middle class. 

 BODY:
DES MOINES - The 2012 presidential election, Mitt Romney said on Thursday, "could be our last chance" to save the United States from Greece-like bankruptcy. 
The nation, he said, is "only inches away from no longer being a free economy." The task ahead, he proclaimed at another campaign stop days before the Iowa caucuses kick off the Republican primary season, was nothing less than "saving the soul of America."
Mr. Romney is hardly alone in elevating the stakes of the presidential race to levels approaching survival of our way of life. 
"I believe this election is the most important election since 1860," Newt Gingrich said recently. Jon M. Huntsman Jr. is a bit more restrained; to him, it is only the most important of his lifetime, or maybe since the Depression. 
"This election is about whether America and its very essence will continue, whether it will be free and safe and prosperous," Rick Santorum said this fall.
On one level, the politics of apocalypse avoidance are straightforward. In a Republican party whose conservative base views President Obama as determined to replace market forces with government mandates and intent on apologizing for America around the world, many voters feel that something fundamental is on the line and want to know their candidates feel the same way. And the more Republicans feel is on the line, the greater the likelihood that they will turn out to vote. 
But the future-of-civilization approach also carries risks for the eventual Republican nominee, and not just because moderate and independent voters might judge it to exaggerate Mr. Obama's shortcomings. 
What is under way now is a contest to define what the election is about. Even as the Republican candidates have been fighting it out among themselves in an ever-shifting primary campaign, Mr. Obama has been ramping up his effort to make 2012 a clash of competing visions about how to ensure a future for the American middle class. In the process, he is also working to define what the election is not about: the persistently high unemployment rate and his inability to point to hope for a robust economic recovery. 
Seeing an opportunity to engineer a lasting and fundamental change in Washington's ideological direction, Republicans are choosing to play along, seeking a mandate, in framing the election as historic, to do more than just oust Mr. Obama. 
Where Republicans warn of class warfare, Mr. Obama is talking about income inequality. Where Republicans cite the perils of over-regulation and the heavy hand of government, Mr. Obama invokes consumer protection and the destructive excesses of the financial system. 
Where Republicans see looming Democratic tax increases, Mr. Obama sees equitable burden-sharing. Where Republicans portray Mr. Obama as European in his sensibilities if not downright un-American, the president casts himself as a modern-day Teddy Roosevelt. 
At the White House, Mr. Obama's advisers are confident that this is an opportune moment to define a choice of starkly different visions for the future, and in doing so avoid a referendum on the economic troubles of the moment. 
After a period in which the anti-Washington, budget-cutting fervor of the Tea Party movement moved the center of gravity in American politics to the right, the president and his team see a shift in the nature of the anger coursing through the electorate, toward a demand for fairness for the middle class. 
"This is the defining issue of our time," Mr. Obama said in his speech in Kansas this month setting out the themes of his re-election campaign. "This is a make-or-break moment for the middle class, and for all those who are fighting to get into the middle class. Because what's at stake is whether this will be a country where working people can earn enough to raise a family, build a modest savings, own a home, secure their retirement."
Whether Mr. Obama can make his version of the stakes sufficiently urgent to win a hearing from frustrated voters remains an open question. His approval ratings seem to be ticking slightly upward, but they remain perilously low for an incumbent seeking re-election. An overwhelming proportion of Americans say the nation is on the wrong track. 
Meanwhile, Republicans are honing their messages about the big issues in ways that give them a chance to make a connection with the anxiety among voters that the nation's best days are behind us. "I'm not going to borrow money from China to pay for things that aren't absolutely necessary," Mr. Romney said at a stop in Mason City, Iowa, on Thursday, linking his smaller-government argument to the debt burden being left to the next generation.
There is a long way to go in the campaign, and the Republican candidates would bring different strengths and weaknesses to a debate with the president over the size and role of government and the future of the middle class. But for now at least, Mr. Obama seems to be succeeding in making the election about something more than the monthly job-creation figures.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (87%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); CAUCUSES (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (60%); CONSUMER LAW (60%); TAX LAW (60%) Gingrich, Newt; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Presidential Election of 2012; Iowa; Kansas; On Politics

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); NEWT GINGRICH (88%); JON HUNTSMAN (79%); RICK SANTORUM (78%) Gingrich, Newt; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%) IOWA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); GREECE (90%) Iowa; Kansas

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1199 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Keep Focus on Romney

BYLINE: MCHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: All year, Democrats have been focused like a laser on Mitt Romney, even as Republicans flirted with other hopefuls. 

 BODY:
DES MOINES -- If Mitt Romney wins the Iowa caucuses and goes on to eventually snag the Republican nomination, the prize for the best crystal ball may go to none other than the Democratic Party.
For nearly the entire year, the Democratic National Committee has been focused like a laser on Mr. Romney, even as Republicans flirted with other hopefuls.
When Michele Bachmann emerged as the victor of the straw poll in Ames, Democratic officials and members of President Obama's reelection campaign continued to hammer Mr. Romney. The same happened when Rick Perry entered the race and when Herman Cain shot up in the polls. 
More recently, the emergence of Newt Gingrich as the leader in some polls earlier this month was not enough to distract the Democratic National Committee from keeping their research focused on Mr. Romney. Now, with Mr. Romney near the top in some Iowa polls and with a commanding lead in New Hampshire surveys, the Democratic attention may be paying off.
Not a single vote has been cast and Mr. Romney is a long way from wrapping up the nomination. And it's also possible that the opposition research department at Democratic headquarters could still end up with a largely useless pile of documents about Mr. Romney's political foibles that are meaningless in next year's general election.
But the Democrats don't think so.
On Tuesday, even as Ron Paul surged ahead in a key survey and Rick Santorum improved his standing to third place, the Democratic National Committee put out a memorandum to reporters titled "Rewriting History and Flip-Flopping on the Issues."
And this morning, the Democrats are releasing yet another Web video attacking Mr. Romney - one of literally dozens the committee has produced in 2011. The video criticizes Mr. Romney for saying he will probably not release his tax returns if he wins the nomination.
"What is Mitt Romney hiding?" the video asks.
The Democrats are betting that Mr. Romney will be the nominee to face Mr. Obama next fall. And they are hoping that their attacks on him will sink into the national consciousness long before the actual election starts.
Mr. Romney's campaign last month called the focus on him "an obsession" and used it as evidence of their candidate's inevitable success in capturing the nomination.
"With each passing day, it is becoming increasingly clear that President Obama and his Democrat allies are fixated more on Mitt Romney than on turning around our struggling economy," said Andrea Saul, Mr. Romney's campaign spokeswoman.
But the Democratic Party officials are convinced that their plan is working. They say that the focus on Mr. Romney now will make is easier for Mr. Obama's reelection campaign to highlight his record and to further develop unflattering narratives about Mr. Romney.
"We are simply holding him accountable for his words, his actions," say Melanie Roussell, the national press secretary for the Democratic National Committee. "We are informing voters about Mitt Romney's record so they can cut through the deception and hold him accountable."
That effort started long ago, and has survived though an ever-changing field of Republican candidates.
The e-mails from the Democratic rapid response team started early, and raised questions about his past positions, pressing the case that Mr. Romney is a flip-flopper, and generally trying to lay the groundwork for future attacks.
On Feb. 11, the day Mr. Romney gave a speech at the Conservative Public Action Conference, the D.N.C. sent out six e-mails to reporters about the former governor.
"Romney Flip-Flops on his Own Campaign Strategy," said one. Another read: "Salt Lake Tribune: Another flip-flop? Romney now disses stimulus." A third was: "Fact Checking Mitt Romney's Acrobatic Speech at CPAC."
During the summer, the Democrats sent out e-mails with the title "Romney vs. Romney on Tax Cuts," which highlights the apparent dichotomy between Mr. Romney's pledge to keep the Bush-era tax cuts in place while also saying that "I'm not for tax cuts for the rich."
During the debates, the committee sent out dozens of missives about Mr. Romney to reporters and broadcasters in an effort to undermine the effectiveness of his performances on the stage.
And this fall, the Democratic National Committee produced biting videos about Mr. Romney, including one that spliced his answers to a question about abortion into a web video about a so-called "personhood" amendment. 
Just this week, the Democrats have sent out 16 e-mails to reporters with "ROMNEY" in the subject line.
That intensity has continued throughout the year. Sometimes it would be an unflattering Web video. Other times, the committee would send out links to news stories about Mr. Romney. Other times, they would write a memo about the campaign, almost always focused on Mr. Romney.
For the strategists around Mr. Romney, there are two ways of looking at the never-ending stream of criticism from Mr. Obama and the Democrats.
On the plus side, it means the Democrats expect them to be the nominee, and they have used that to try and create an impression of inevitability. On the other hand, the Democratic National Committee has been effective in publicizing stories about Mr. Romney that are less than flattering.
One aide to Mr. Romney noted that the national committee. used Twitter to quickly whip up public interest and attention in a recent debate when Mr. Romney offered a $10,000 bet to Rick Perry, one of his rivals. Another time, the committee spent weeks reporting comments that Mr. Romney made at the Iowa state fair that "corporations are people, too."
And yet the intense barrage by the national committee is also giving Mr. Romney a bit of a window into Mr. Obama's strategy. Given the barrage of attacks during the past year, it's not hard to imagine how Mr. Obama's reelection campaign will play out.
In the end, being the center of attention is probably better than being ignored, especially for someone who wants to be president.
But if Mr. Romney gets the nomination, he faces another year of the aggressive political rhetoric from the Democratic National Committee.
And the rest of us may face a few I-told-you-so's.

        
Court Health Care Decision Poses Risks For Romney
        
Why It's Good for Romney to Be at 21 Percent
        
Romney's Covert Iowa Campaign
        
Romney Confronts Health Care Questions
        
Pawlenty Hopes 'I'm Sorry' Is Enough

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); INTERNET VIDEO (63%) 2012; Democratic National Committee; mitt romney; president obama; In Iowa; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (93%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); RON PAUL (58%); RICK PERRY (58%); HERMAN CAIN (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (91%) IOWA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011



1200 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: At Mayor's Interfaith Breakfast, Some Respectful Dissents

BYLINE: KATE TAYLOR


HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Bloomberg's usually feel-good interfaith breakfast came amid two recent religious controversies. 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's annual interfaith breakfast is typically a feel-good event, a chance for the mayor and other city officials to mingle with representatives of many religions. 
But the mood at this year's event, held on Friday morning at the New York Public Library, was dampened slightly by a controversy involving accusations of police surveillance of Muslim communities and a long-running dispute over religious groups meeting in public schools.
In the days leading up to the breakfast, 14 Muslim leaders sent Mr. Bloomberg a letter saying that they were boycotting the breakfast over reports, mostly by the Associated Press, that described the use of undercover officers and informants to gather information about political activity among Muslims in the city. And the information, the reports said, was gathered in circumstances in which there was no indication that crimes had occurred. 
Mr. Bloomberg and the police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, have denied the accusations. The mayor's office also noted that two of the people who signed the letter had not actually been invited to the breakfast.
Mr. Bloomberg did not address the controversy in his remarks at the breakfast, and the event attracted no protesters, although there was a substantial police presence outside. The crowd of 368 guests -- larger than at last year's event and including a number of Muslims -- gave Mr. Bloomberg a standing ovation when he rose to speak.
However, one Muslim who attended, Hussein Rashid, 37, signaled his protest by wearing a T-shirt that said, "I AM NOT A TERRORIST."
Mr. Rashid, a visiting professor of religion at Hofstra University, said that he was troubled by the mayor's denial of the reports, and that an independent investigation was needed.
"We know N.Y.P.D.'s track record on self-policing. What we need is an open and honest investigation," he said.
He said he sympathized with those who chose to boycott the breakfast, but that he thought it was a constructive event and important for him to attend. 
Mr. Rashid chose to keep his opinions to himself - or at least to his T-shirt - during the breakfast.
That was not the case, however, with the Rev. Bill Devlin, an evangelical pastor, who was upset by a separate issue.
As Mr. Bloomberg took the stage to deliver his remarks, the Rev. Devlin rose to protest a decision by the city to eject churches and religious groups that hold prayer service in schools.
The city has set Feb. 12 as the day by when religious groups can no longer worship in schools. The deadline was imposed after the Supreme Court declined to review a lower court ruling that backed the city's decision to ban a Bronx congregation from holding its services at a public school. 
"We love you, Mayor Mike-we love you," Mr. Devlin began, before adding, "But please don't kick out our houses of worship from our city schools."
"I hear you - we'll be happy to talk about that," Mr. Bloomberg said, before continuing with his planned remarks. 
After Mr. Bloomberg finished speaking, the Rev. Devlin said of the city's decision. "We feel that this is discriminatory. If the mayor wants our support, we want his support."
As for his brief disruption of the breakfast, the Rev. Devlin said, "I got his attention, so, as Tom Cruise says, 'Mission accomplished.'"
Mr. Bloomberg spoke about how congregations could use social media to connect to city government and encouraged nonprofit groups to submit proposals to play a role in the city's Young Men's Initiative, a campaign aimed at improving health and educational achievement for young black and Latino men. Mr. Kelly, the police commissioner, also attended the breakfast and lingered, after the remarks were over, shaking hands and posing for photographs with guests.
Although no one directly confronted Mr. Bloomberg at the breakfast about the surveillance controversy, he was asked about it earlier on Friday, during his weekly radio interview with John Gambling.
"I thought some of the reporting about is it just not accurate or even really responsible," Mr. Bloomberg said. "We go where the potential threats are reported to be. It's like saying you're going after people that are my height with brown hair. If the perp is described that way in the neighborhood, you look at everybody in the neighborhood that's got brown hair, my height, and you stop them."

        
New Yorkers' Life Expectancy Reaches 80.6 Years, Higher Than National Rate
        
Mayor Criticizes Judge for Releasing Murder Suspect
        
In Latest Gun Inquiry, City Finds Willing Sellers Online
        
A Bialy Shop's Unlikely (Pakistani) Saviors
        
In Doling Out Economic Incentives, Bloomberg Looks Outside Manhattan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); POLICE FORCES (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BOYCOTTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); RELIGION IN SCHOOLS (77%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (77%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); LITIGATION (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg; Muslims; Bloomberg, Michael R; Muslim-Americans; Surveillance of Citizens by Government; Associated Press; Police Department (NYC); City Hall; Religion

ORGANIZATION: Associated Press; Police Department (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%) Bloomberg, Michael R

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011

 
