

401 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Standing Arm in Arm

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Organized labor's early flirtation with Occupy Wall Street is starting to get serious.
Union leaders, who were initially cautious in embracing the Occupy movement, have in recent weeks showered the protesters with help -- tents, air mattresses, propane heaters and tons of food. The protesters, for their part, have joined in union marches and picket lines across the nation. About 100 protesters from Occupy Wall Street are expected to join a Teamsters picket line at the Sotheby's auction house in Manhattan on Wednesday night to back the union in a bitter contract fight.
Labor unions, marveling at how the protesters have fired up the public on traditional labor issues like income inequality, are also starting to embrace some of the bold tactics and social media skills of the Occupy movement.
Last Wednesday, a union transit worker and a retired Teamster were arrested for civil disobedience inside Sotheby's after sneaking through the entrance to harangue those attending an auction -- echoing the lunchtime ruckus that Occupy Wall Street protesters caused weeks earlier at two well-known Manhattan restaurants owned by Danny Meyer, a Sotheby's board member. 
Organized labor's public relations staff is also using Twitter, Tumblr and other social media much more aggressively after seeing how the Occupy protesters have used those services to mobilize support by immediately transmitting photos and videos of marches, tear-gassing and arrests. The Teamsters, for example, have beefed up their daily blog and posted many more photos of their battles with BMW, US Foods and Sotheby's on Facebook and Twitter.
''The Occupy movement has changed unions,'' said Stuart Appelbaum, the president of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union. ''You're seeing a lot more unions wanting to be aggressive in their messaging and their activity. You'll see more unions on the street, wanting to tap into the energy of Occupy Wall Street.''
Unions have long stuck to traditional tactics like picketing. But inspired by the Occupy protests, labor leaders are talking increasingly of mobilizing the rank and file and trying to flex their muscles through large, boisterous marches, including nationwide marches planned for Nov. 17.
Organized labor is also seizing on the simplicity of the Occupy movement's message, which criticizes the great wealth of the top 1 percent of Americans compared with the economic struggles of much of the bottom 99 percent.
A memo that the A.F.L.-C.I.O. sent out last week recommended that unions use the Occupy message about inequality and the 99 percent far more in their communications with members, employers and voters.
Indeed, as part of its contract battle with Verizon, the communications workers' union has began asserting in its picket signs that Verizon and its highly paid chief executive are part of the 1 percent, while the Verizon workers who face demands for concessions are part of the 99 percent. A dozen Verizon workers plan to begin walking from Albany to Manhattan on Thursday in a ''March for the 99 percent.''
''We think the Occupy movement has given voice to something very basic about what's going on in our country right now,'' said Damon Silvers, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s policy director. ''The fact that they've figured out certain concepts and language for doing that, we think is really important and positive.''
Over the last month, unions have provided extensive support to Occupy protesters around the country, from rain ponchos to cash donations. National Nurses United is providing staff members for first-aid tables at many encampments, while the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s headquarters two blocks from the White House is providing shower facilities for the protesters occupying McPherson Square, 300 yards to the east.
Unions have also intervened with politicians on behalf of the protesters. In Los Angeles, labor leaders have repeatedly lobbied Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa not to evict the protesters. When New York City officials were threatening to evict the Occupy Wall Street protesters from Zuccotti Park, hundreds of union members showed up before daybreak to discourage any eviction, and the city backed down.
Like any relationship, however, the one between the Occupy movement and labor is complicated.
Dozens of Occupy protesters have joined union members to picket the Hotel Bel-Air in Los Angeles and Verizon offices in Washington, Buffalo and Boston. (A Verizon spokesman said the Occupy protesters ''do not have the benefit of any information about the Verizon issues except what they've been told by the union, which is obviously one-sided and most likely inaccurate.'')
In New York, the Occupy protesters have joined the Teamsters in their attacks on Sotheby's. The art auction house locked out 43 Teamster art handlers on July 29, after the union balked at its demands for sizable concessions.
In addition to the lunchtime protest at the Danny Meyer restaurants, Occupy protesters also joined recent picketing against Sotheby's outside the Museum of Modern Art in New York.
Diana Phillips, a Sotheby's spokeswoman, said the company had offered a fair contract and ''is unwilling to accept demands that virtually double the cost of their contract.''
Arthur Brown, a mental health worker who is one of the founders of Occupy Buffalo, where 50 people camp out each night, said the Occupy movement badly needed labor's backing if it is to change the nation's policies and politics.
''Young people started this movement, but they can't finish it,'' Mr. Brown said. ''They don't have the capacity or the experience to finish it. We really need the working class and union folks, the older folks, the activists from the '60s. '70s and '80s, to help make this a full-fledged movement that will change the political landscape of America.''
But some Occupy protesters worry that organized labor might seek to co-opt them.
Jake Lowry, a 21-year-old college student and an Occupy participant, said: ''We're glad to have unions endorse us, but we can't formally endorse them. We're an autonomous group and it's important to keep our autonomy.''
George Gresham, president of 1199 S.E.I.U., a union that represents more than 300,000 health care workers in the Northeast, said his union wanted to help the Occupy movement amplify its voice.
''This is a dream come true for us to have these young people speaking out about what's been happening to working people,'' Mr. Gresham said. His union has offered to provide 500 flu shots and a week's worth of meals for the Occupy Wall Street protesters.
Maria Elena Durazo, executive secretary-treasurer of the Los Angeles County Federation of Labor, said it remained to be seen whether the unions and the protesters could, by working together, achieve concrete change.
''Workers are with the Occupy movement on the broader issues; they're with them on the issue of inequality,'' she said. ''The question is, can the labor movement or the Occupy movement move that message down to the workplace, where workers confront low wages, low benefits and little power? Can we use it to organize workers where it really matters, in the workplace, to help their everyday life?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A recent demonstration outside Sotheby's auction house in Manhattan was made up of Teamsters and members of the Occupy Wall Street movement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Last month, Verizon workers marched past Zuccotti Park in solidarity with Occupy protesters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANNON STAPLETON/REUTERS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (93%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); STRIKES (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (88%); EXECUTIVES (78%); AUCTIONS (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (74%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (74%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (69%); ARRESTS (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%); RETAILERS (63%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (91%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (80%); FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (91%); VZC (LSE) (80%); VZ (NYSE) (80%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (91%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (91%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (80%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (80%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2011



402 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: Political Ad Spending Spurs Local TV Mergers

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
A period of consolidation is under way in local television -- and with it, a renewed debate about the implications of merger and acquisition activity on the industry.
A torrent of deals began in September when the Sinclair Broadcast Group bought seven local stations from the Four Points Media Group for $200 million, and it continued in October when the E. W. Scripps Company bought nine stations from McGraw-Hill for $212 million.
Last week, in the single biggest television station acquisition in four years, Sinclair bought eight stations owned by Freedom Communications for $385 million. 
Other groups of stations are believed to be on the market now, further signifying that the broadcast business is becoming more attractive to buyers after several painful years. Analysts say private equity firms that bought into the business years ago -- like Cerberus Capital Management, which founded the holding company Four Points in 2007 -- are ready to sell.
''We really took it on the chin as an industry during the great recession,'' said David Amy, the chief financial officer for Sinclair, referring to steep declines in advertising revenue. But what the economy took away, politics may help restore. Television stations are among the biggest beneficiaries of political ad spending -- one of the primary reasons for the increase in sales activity. The election cycle of 2012 is expected to be exceptionally lucrative for stations in competitive states.
''Political hot spots have become a key criteria in the selection of acquisition targeting,'' said Steve Ridge, the president of the media strategy group at Frank N. Magid Associates, an adviser to local stations. In some medium-size markets -- like Des Moines, where the first caucus will be held in January -- ''the infusion literally changes the balance sheet,'' he said.
Sinclair, which became one of the biggest station operators in the United States through its recent acquisitions, says it is contemplating more purchases. ''Generally speaking, the industry needs consolidation,'' Mr. Amy said, to better compete against cable companies that sell ads and wireless companies that want broadcast spectrum.
Public interest groups, on the other hand, say that consolidation can be detrimental to local communities because new owners sometimes make cutbacks to station staff and expect the remaining staff members to do more with less.
The Sinclair deal last week ''shows that local TV consolidation is alive and well,'' said Corie Wright, the policy counsel for Free Press, a nonprofit group that ordinarily opposes such deals. Absent meaningful government oversight, ''local communities will have fewer and fewer competing and independent local news voices, and more absentee owners programming from afar,'' she said.
Groups like Free Press say that quality and diversity on local TV stations matters because the newscasts by those stations are the biggest sources of news for most Americans.
A report by the market research firm SNL Kagan said that the third quarter of the year brought a ''huge increase'' in television station deal volume, more than the two previous quarters combined. The report noted, however, that there were still some ''troubled and failing station groups.'' One such group of four stations, Roberts Broadcasting, filed for bankruptcy last month.
Broadly speaking, stations are worth about half as much as they were a decade ago, when prices peaked, estimated Robin Flynn, a senior analyst for SNL Kagan, who said there was a ''pent-up supply of stations for sale.''
Along with the help from political ads, stations are also becoming more attractive to buyers because they are raising money, in the form of retransmission payments, from the cable and satellite distributors that retransmit their signals to subscribers. Mr. Amy of Sinclair said that owning more stations was advantageous in the negotiations with distributors. Acquisitions of stations are regulated by the Federal Communications Commission, which is completing a review of its broadcast ownership rules. Such reviews are supposed to take place every four years.
The review proposes to keep in place some of the rules that make it difficult to own both a daily newspaper and a radio or TV station in the same market, according to an F.C.C. official who has seen a draft of the revised rules. But it will remove the restrictions on cross-ownership of radio and television stations, so it may become much easier for one person to own both in the same market.
The F.C.C. official, who insisted on anonymity because the revisions had not been voted on, cautioned that the draft was subject to change. An F.C.C. spokeswoman reiterated that point and declined to comment further.
Station operators say that the F.C.C. rules make it more difficult to do business; Mr. Amy said the regulations have hampered the industry.
The F.C.C. commissioner who has been the most critical of media mergers, Michael J. Copps, said last week that he expected ''many more deals'' as ''the economy improves and station groups continue the quest for all those elusive efficiencies to satisfy the investors.''
''The bottom line,'' he said, ''is fewer voices, less news and a diminished civic dialogue.''
Critics of consolidation say that some station owners sidestep the F.C.C. media ownership rules by outsourcing news production to others, especially in smaller markets -- what Ms. Wright of Free Press calls ''covert consolidation.''
The arrangements, sometimes called ''shared services agreements,'' often end up reducing the number of reporters and producers in a given community. Ms. Wright's group recently produced an advocacy video that shows two newscasts on two different stations in Charleston, S.C., that have some of the same news scripts, anchors and reporters, through a sharing agreement between two owners.
''These deals are often the precursors to mergers,'' Ms. Wright said. In fact, as soon as Sinclair obtains antitrust approval to buy Freedom Communications' eight stations, but before the stations actually change hands, Sinclair will start to operate the eight stations under one such agreement.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sinclair Broadcast bought KUTV. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN BILLS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); MERGERS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); POLITICS (87%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (74%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CAUCUSES (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: E W SCRIPPS CO (72%); SINCLAIR BROADCAST GROUP INC (58%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (56%); FRANK N MAGID ASSOCIATES INC (54%)

TICKER: SSP (NYSE) (72%); SBGI (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (72%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2011



403 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Trouble Beside the Bay

BYLINE: By ISHMAEL REED. 
Ishmael Reed is the author of ''Blues City: A Walk in Oakland.''

 BODY:
Oakland, Calif.
JEAN QUAN may be the first in many categories -- the first Asian-American and first woman to be mayor of Oakland -- but she is far from the city's first chief executive to face off with its police force. While dozens of mayors around the country have had to deal with Occupy movements, only Ms. Quan has seen the initially peaceful protests turn into street violence and even a general strike -- a turn almost wholly attributable to the brutality of the city police.
In their zeal to fight back, however, the protesters, many of them white out-of-towners, have left locals unsure of who really has their best interests at heart. 
On Oct. 25 the world saw an Oakland police force that blacks have had to deal with for decades -- even before the Black Panthers organized to protest the shooting of a black youth in the 1960s, a time when the police were said to be recruited from the South because they knew how to handle African-Americans. In a video watched worldwide, an officer in riot gear fired a tear gas canister at a protester; the victim, an Iraq War veteran, later underwent surgery for his wounds. When some occupiers went to help him, another canister was lobbed at them.
That same night officers allegedly used rubber bullets during an assault on campers in Frank H. Ogawa Plaza. If so, that would violate the department's rules of engagement. Those rules were adopted in 2003, after the police assaulted antiwar protesters at the Port of Oakland, even injuring some longshoremen who happened to be passing by.
The force's viciousness, particularly against blacks and Latinos, is legendary. In one recent case, a group of officers known as the Riders, who racked up an impressive list of drug takedowns, were accused of brutality, kidnapping and planting evidence on their road to arrests. Another officer, nicknamed ''Audie Murphy,'' after the sharpshooting war hero and film star, shot four suspects and killed three. So little has been done to reform the force that a federal judge has threatened to take the entire department into receivership.
Many of Oakland's officers don't even live in the city, but rather its suburbs, a fact that helps maintain a strong ''us versus them'' worldview. (At a recent community meeting I proposed that the city study a plan, developed by Detroit, that rents foreclosed homes to police officers for as little as $1,000, to keep them in the city.)
The police still have influence in City Hall, though: their union repeatedly and vocally criticizes elected officials, including the mayor. For years it opposed making officers pay toward their pensions like other city workers. (The union agreed to start contributing in July.)
Mayor Quan initially supported the police after the Oct. 25 clashes. Keith Olbermann called for her resignation; so did Michael Moore, who made a nuisance of himself by barging into Oakland Highland General Hospital, demanding to see the injured veteran (who had already been transferred to another hospital). Support for the protests grew, with statements of sympathy coming in from Cairo and Dusseldorf, Germany.
Such pressure may explain why Ms. Quan later apologized for the use of excessive force by the police, and is now trying to take a hands-off approach to the matter. Needless to say, the police department has been critical, saying it was ''confused'' by her latest moves.
All of this has left Oakland's blacks and Latinos in a difficult position. They rightly criticize the police, but they also criticize the other invading army, the whites from other cities, and even other states, whom they blame for the vandalism that tends to break out whenever there is a heated protest in town: from the riots after the murder of Oscar Grant by a transit police officer in 2009, to the violence of the last two weeks downtown and, most recently, near the port.
Someday we may discern the deeper historical meaning of these latest events. For now, what's striking are the racial optics. How did Asian-Americans respond to the sight of a diminutive Asian-American mayor being hooted off the stage by a largely white crowd at an Oct. 27 rally? And where was the sympathy when, in years past, unarmed blacks and Hispanics were beaten or killed? Why did it take the injury of a white protester to attract attention?
Meanwhile, those hurt most by the protests are local business owners and workers, many of them minorities. Jose Duenas, the chief executive of the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce of Alameda County, blamed the Occupy movement for stalled economic activity. ''We've got no events planned, people are pulling back,'' he told a local newspaper. ''We don't blame them.'' The cash-strapped city has spent over $1 million so far in occupation-related costs.
Local activism has been pushed aside as well. Even as Occupy Oakland has occupied the Bay Area headlines, hundreds of black, white and Latino parents met to oppose plans to close five schools in black neighborhoods. The following day there was hardly a single line of newsprint about the meeting.
The Occupy movement has important things to say. But in its hurry to speak, it risks shutting out those who have been waiting their turn for a long time.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEX MERTO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIOTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MAYORS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); SHOOTINGS (76%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); IRAQ WAR (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (66%); EVIDENCE (65%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (64%); JUDGES (60%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (52%)

COMPANY: PORT OF OAKLAND (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2011



404 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Questions About the Safety of Fracking

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As the shale gas rush has exploded over the last decade, so has the number of reports of public health and environmental problems. The New York Times and others have uncovered problems such as radioactive fracking waste, drinking water contamination, air pollution and more. 
Yet the controversy surrounding fracking isn't because of an uninformed public, despite what David Brooks suggests in ''Shale Gas Revolution'' (column, Nov. 4). It's because of the shale gas industry's reluctance to address the serious risks surrounding drilling and its relentless effort to oppose even the most minimal public health protections.
In 2005, the shale gas industry successfully persuaded Congress and the Bush administration to exempt fracking from the Safe Drinking Water Act.
In 2009, the industry aggressively fought efforts by me and other members of Congress to require that drilling companies publicly reveal what chemicals they inject into the ground. And just this year, the industry sought to narrow the Environmental Protection Agency's study on fracking's risks to water resources.
If shale gas drilling is as safe as the industry would like us to believe, then the drilling companies must be open and honest about the injections they are jamming into the ground and should have no problem complying with basic federal environmental laws.
MAURICE D. HINCHEY Washington, Nov. 4, 2011
The writer, a Democrat, represents the 22nd District in New York.
To the Editor:
While extolling the virtues of obtaining natural gas from shale, David Brooks admits that there are inherent risks requiring ''a reasonable regulatory regime.''
Those of us who live in the Finger Lakes area, with its many pristine lakes and a clean water supply, are skeptical of any regulatory system being in place in the near future.
Until there is adequate regulation, many of us are opposed to drilling, which might contaminate our water supply and negatively affect our other industries, including farming and wineries, that depend on water.
Since New York City and Syracuse have an exemption from fracking to protect their water supply, we in the Finger Lakes expect -- and demand -- the same protection.
DOROTHY DICKIESON Seneca Falls, N.Y., Nov. 5, 2011
To the Editor:
David Brooks celebrates the benefits of shale gas, but he neglects the critical issue of global climate. Done right, shale gas does have economic, political and environmental advantages over coal. It is also a far quicker fix than renewables.
But even if we switched all our coal-fired power plants to gas, swapping out one source of carbon dioxide for another, we would still be warming the planet at only a slightly less dangerous pace. Moreover, shale gas operations today emit substantial methane, a global warming agent vastly more potent than carbon dioxide.
If a switch to gas is to occur, it must be accompanied by full-scale development and deployment of carbon capture and storage technology for gas-fired power plants, and tough curbs on methane pollution, or we will be taking unnecessary risks with the only atmosphere we have.
ARMOND COHEN Executive Director Clean Air Task Force Boston, Nov. 6, 2011
To the Editor:
The gas-extracting industry couldn't find a worse word than ''fracking'' -- scary, ugly, negative. For improved public relations, pick a new one.
How about ''gleaning''?
DERECK WILLIAMSON Ringoes, N.J., Nov. 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); LAKES (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (89%); WATER QUALITY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); METHANE (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (77%); WATER POLLUTION (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); POWER PLANTS (73%); WRITERS (73%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (72%); AIR POLLUTION (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (64%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (63%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (63%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%); WINERIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: MAURICE D HINCHEY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2011



405 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: Moving to U.S. And Prospering, Without English

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE; Jeffrey E. Singer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
More than 40 years after arriving in New York from Mexico uneducated and broke, Felix Sanchez de la Vega Guzman still can barely speak English. Ask him a question, and he will respond with a few halting phrases and an apologetic smile before shifting back to the comfort of Spanish.
Yet Mr. Sanchez has lived the great American success story. He turned a business selling tortillas on the street into a $19 million food manufacturing empire that threaded together the Mexican diaspora from coast to coast and reached back into Mexico itself.
Mr. Sanchez is part of a small class of immigrants who arrived in the United States with nothing and, despite speaking little or no English, became remarkably prosperous. And while generations of immigrants have thrived despite language barriers, technology, these days, has made it easier for such entrepreneurs to attain considerable affluence. 
Many have rooted their businesses in big cities with immigrant populations large enough to insulate them from everyday situations that demand English. After gaining traction in their own communities, they have used the tools of modern communication, transportation and commerce to tap far-flung resources and exploit markets in similar enclaves around the country and the world.
''The entire market is Hispanic,'' Mr. Sanchez said of his business. ''You don't need English.'' A deal, he said, is only a cheap long-distance phone call or a few key strokes on the computer away. ''All in Spanish,'' he added.
Mr. Sanchez, 66, said he always wanted to learn English but had not had time for lessons.
''I couldn't concentrate,'' he said in a recent interview, in Spanish. ''In addition, all the people around me were speaking in Spanish, too.''
In New York City, successful non-English-speaking entrepreneurs like Mr. Sanchez have emerged from the largest immigrant populations, including those from China, South Korea and Spanish-speaking countries.
Among them is Zhang Yulong, 39, who emigrated from China in 1994 and now presides over a $30-million-a-year cellphone accessories empire in New York with 45 employees.
Kim Ki Chol, 59, who arrived in the United States from South Korea in 1981, opened a clothing accessories store in Brooklyn and went on to become a successful retailer, real estate investor and civic leader in the region's Korean diaspora.
In the United States in 2010, 4.5 million income-earning adults who were heads of households spoke English ''not well'' or ''not at all,'' according to the Census Bureau; of those, about 35,500 had household incomes of more than $200,000 a year.
Nancy Foner, a sociology professor at the City University of New York who has written widely on immigration, said it was clear that modern technology had made a big difference in the ability of immigrant entrepreneurs with poor or no English skills to expand their companies nationally and globally.
''It wasn't impossible -- but much, much harder -- for immigrants to operate businesses around the globe a hundred years ago, when there were no jet planes, to say nothing of cellphones and computers,'' Ms. Foner said.
Advocates for the movement sometimes known as Official English have long pressed for legislation mandating English as the official language of government, arguing that a common language is essential for the country's cohesion and for immigrant assimilation and success.
But stories like Mr. Sanchez's, though certainly unusual, seem to suggest that an entrepreneur can do just fine without English -- especially with the aid of modern technology, not to mention determination and ingenuity.
For Mr. Sanchez, who became an American citizen in 1985, one anxious moment came when he had to pass his naturalization test. The law requires that applicants be able to read, write and speak basic English.
But Mr. Sanchez and other entrepreneurs said that the test, at least at the time they took it, had been rudimentary and that they had muddled through it.
Mr. Sanchez immigrated to the United States in 1970 from the Mexican state of Puebla with only a fifth-grade education. He held a series of low-paying jobs in New York, including washing dishes in a Midtown restaurant. The Mexican population in the New York region was small back then, but it soon began growing, as did the demand for authentic Mexican products.
In 1978, Mr. Sanchez and his wife, Carmen, took $12,000 in savings, bought a tortilla press and an industrial dough mixer in Los Angeles, hauled the machinery back to the East Coast and installed it in a warehouse in Passaic, N.J. Mr. Sanchez spent his days driving a forklift at an electrical-equipment factory and spent his evenings and nights making tortillas and selling them door-to-door in Latino neighborhoods around New York City.
His company, Puebla Foods, grew with the Mexican population, and he was soon distributing his tortillas and other Mexican products, like dried chilies, to bodegas and restaurants throughout the Northeast. At its peak, his enterprise had factories in cities all across North America, including Los Angeles, Miami, Pittsburgh, Toronto and Washington. It has since been buffeted by competition and by the economy, and he has scaled back.
He has relied heavily on a bilingual staff, which at times has included his three children, born and raised in New Jersey.
Mr. Zhang, the cellphone accessories entrepreneur, said his lack of English had not been a handicap. ''The only obstacle I have is if I get too tired,'' said Mr. Zhang, who also owns a property development company and an online retail firm.
In 2001, Mr. Zhang set up a wholesale business in cellphone accessories in Manhattan. He then raised money from relatives and investors in China to open a manufacturing plant there to make leather cellphone cases for export to the United States, Canada and Latin America.
His business boomed, and he opened warehouses in Los Angeles, New York City and Washington, controlling his international manufacturing, supply and retail chain from his base in New York.
Mr. Zhang now lives in a big house in Little Neck, Queens, with his wife, three daughters and parents, and drives a Lexus S.U.V. He has not applied for citizenship, preferring to remain a legal permanent resident and maintain his Chinese citizenship, which spares him the bother of securing a Chinese visa when he goes to China for business.
While he can speak rudimentary English -- he rates his comprehension at 30 percent -- he conducts nearly his entire life in Chinese. His employees speak the languages of trading partners: English, Spanish, Creole, Korean and French, not to mention multiple Chinese dialects.
Over the course of a lengthy interview, he gamely tried on several occasions to converse in English, but each time he ran into roadblocks and, with a shrug of resignation, resumed speaking through a translator in Mandarin.
Mr. Kim, the Korean retailer, recalled that when he opened his first store in Brooklyn, nearly his entire clientele was Afro-Caribbean and African-American, and his customers spoke no Korean.
''You don't have to have a big conversation,'' he recalled. ''You can make gestures.''
While his holdings have grown, he has also formed or led associations and organizations that focus on empowering the Korean population in the United States. As in business, modern communication has made it much easier for him to raise his profile throughout the Korean diaspora well beyond New York.
''The success of my life is not only that I make a lot of money,'' he said, ''but that I make a lot of Korean people's lives better.''
Yet he admitted that he was embarrassed by his inability to speak English. He has gone so far as to buy some English-tutorial computer programs, but for years, they have gone mostly unused.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FELIX SANCHEZ DE LA VEGA GUZMAN: Mr. Sanchez, 66, turned selling tortillas on the street into a $19 million food business. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
ZHANG YULONG: Mr. Zhang, 39, has a $30-million-a-year cellphone accessories company.
 KIM KI CHOL: Mr. Kim, 59, from South Korea, is a successful retailer, real estate investor and civic leader. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); RETAILERS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); REAL ESTATE (68%); INTERVIEWS (68%); SOCIOLOGY (67%); CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (65%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (63%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (60%); FOOD MFG (56%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); CENSUS (50%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2011



406 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Counting Sheep? Now Only in Dreams

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
Last year, Wisconsin led the nation in mink farming, producing 833,430 pelts. Texas was the undisputed king of pansies, growing 1.8 million flats of the flowers. And no state harvested more hops than Washington, with 24,336 acres.
This year? Who knows? The government has stopped counting. 
Forced to cut its budget, the Agriculture Department has decided to eliminate dozens of reports, including the annual goat census (current population: three million), and the number of catfish on the nation's fish farms (177 million, not counting the small fry).
Which raises an existential question: If the government stops counting catfish, do catfish farmers no longer count?
''We'll just disappear,'' said Jerry Nobile, who raises catfish in Moorhead, Miss.
The decision, announced last month, to stop measuring various categories of agricultural products reflects a cold-blooded assessment of the economic usefulness of the 500 or so reports that the National Agriculture Statistics Service does every year. Corn, soybeans, cotton and other major commodities vital to the national economy will still be weighed, inventoried and otherwise tallied down to the last acre, bushel or bale. The same is true for cattle, pigs and poultry.
But the Agriculture Department is saying, in effect, that the nation can get by just fine, thank you, without knowing how much hops brewers are holding in storage (46 million pounds in September) or the value of honey sold by North Dakota beekeepers ($70 million in 2010).
Farmers say such data is crucial -- and not just because it helps them decide how much to plant or how many animals to raise. Potato farmers use reports on potato stocks to decide when to sell. Hops farmers use the data to persuade bankers to lend them money for costly processing facilities. Restaurant chains watch catfish numbers to anticipate price changes. With the Texas drought forcing farmers to send their sheep herds to other states, wool and lamb buyers would normally use federal data to see where the animals went.
The government began producing regular crop reports in 1863, the year after Lincoln created the Agriculture Department. One of the reports being eliminated, an annual sheep inventory (5.5 million head on Jan. 1), can trace its roots at least as far back as 1866. Also ending are reports on bees, honey production, flowers and nursery crops.
The statistics service said it was forced to reduce the frequency of some reports and eliminate others because its budget was cut for the fiscal year that ended in September and it expects further cuts for the current year. The eliminated reports will save $11 million a year.
''These are not cuts we wanted to make, but budget reductions by Congress made it necessary,'' said Matt Herrick, a spokesman for the Agriculture Department.
The reports are mostly based on mailed surveys, but the data collection can also include telephone interviews and visits to farms.
For catfish farmers like Mr. Nobile, the government's action is an uncomfortable reminder of their industry's decline.
Hit hard by imports of cheaper fish from China, the catfish industry is on pace this year to process half as much fish as it did at its peak in 2003. Of course, we know that because the Agriculture Department had been tracking catfish processing every month. The agency now plans to cut not only that report but also a monthly report on catfish feed deliveries and a twice-yearly report that counts the fish in farmers' ponds. (Cutting catfish and trout reports will save $480,000 a year, the department said.)
The reports themselves reveal a possible rationale for some of the cuts. There are just 389 catfish farms today in the three main producing states, Alabama, Arkansas and Mississippi, down from 838 in 2004. There were 265 mink farms nationwide last year, down from 350 a decade earlier.
''Half of everybody's out of business,'' Mr. Nobile said. ''We're so small now they can kick us out and we have no power.''
The Agriculture Department said that some data on sectors covered by the discontinued reports would appear in the census of agriculture, which is prepared every five years.
Some farm groups said they would consider the possibility of paying to keep the reports coming.
Ann E. George, administrator of the Hop Growers of America, in Moxee, Wash., said the group had been paying $15,000 a year to help underwrite federal reports on hop stocks and production. The full cost is about $55,000 a year.
Farm group lobbyists also rely on the reports.
''The mink industry has its opponents,'' said Michael Whelan, executive director of Fur Commission USA. ''In order to counter some of their misinformation, I have to inform the legislators that mink production in their state is an important component to the economic base.''
With the elimination of the mink report, which cost taxpayers $130,000 a year, the industry will have to compile its own numbers, raising credibility questions. ''People may ask if I'm inflating or deflating the numbers for political purposes,'' he said.
Many of the reports being cut today, including those on mink, catfish, trout, flowers and honey, were eliminated during an earlier round of budget tightening in 1982. A year later, most of the reports were restored by Congress because of appeals from farm groups.
William E. Kibler, the administrator of the statistics service at the time, said the experience showed how hard it was to eliminate a government program, no matter how small the constituency.
''The commodity organizations out there are pretty strong,'' he said. ''These congressmen up on the Hill say, '$50,000 is not much, let's give it to them.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jerry, left, and Will Nobile farm catfish in Mississippi, livestock the government will no longer track. (B1)
 ''Half of everybody's out of business,'' says Jerry Nobile, left, a catfish farmer in Mississippi. ''We're so small now they can kick us out and we have no power.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (90%); FUR FARMING (90%); AQUACULTURE (90%); MAMMALS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); APICULTURE (89%); ANIMALS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); STATISTICS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FLORICULTURE PRODUCTION (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); POTATO FARMING (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); FINFISH FARMING (73%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (73%); POULTRY (68%); RESTAURANTS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2011



407 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Two Peas in a Pod

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Goa, India
The world's two biggest democracies, India and the United States, are going through remarkably similar bouts of introspection. Both countries are witnessing grass-roots movements against corruption and excess. The difference is that Indians are protesting what is illegal -- a system requiring bribes at every level of governance to get anything done. And Americans are protesting what is legal -- a system of Supreme Court-sanctioned bribery in the form of campaign donations that have enabled the financial-services industry to effectively buy the U.S. Congress, and both political parties, and thereby resist curbs on risk-taking.
But the similarities do not stop there. What has brought millions of Indians into the streets to support the India Against Corruption movement and what seems to have triggered not only the Occupy Wall Street movement but also initiatives like Americanselect.org -- a centrist group planning to use the Internet to nominate an independent presidential candidate -- is a sense that both countries have democratically elected governments that are so beholden to special interests that they can no longer deliver reform. Therefore, they both need shock therapy from outside. 
The big difference is that, in America, the Occupy Wall Street movement has no leader and no consensus demand. And while it enjoys a lot of passive support, its activist base is small. India Against Corruption has millions of followers and a charismatic leader, the social activist Anna Hazare, who went on a hunger strike until the Indian Parliament agreed to create an independent ombudsman with the staff and powers to investigate and prosecute corruption at every level of Indian governance and to do so in this next session of Parliament. A furious debate is now raging here over how to ensure that such an ombudsman doesn't turn into an Indian ''Big Brother,'' but some new ombudsman position appears likely to be created.
Arvind Kejriwal, Hazare's top deputy, told me, ''Gandhi said that whenever you do any protests, your demands should be very clear, and it should be very clear who is the authority who can fulfill that demand, so your protests should be directed at that authority.'' If your movement lacks leadership at first, that is not necessarily a problem, he added, ''because often leaders evolve. But the demands have to be very clear.'' A sense of injustice and widening income gaps brought Occupy Wall Street into the street, ''but exactly what needs to be done, which law needs to be changed and who are they demanding that from?'' asked Kejriwal. ''These things have to be answered quickly.''
That said, there are still many parallels between the Indian and American movements. Both seem to have been spurred to action by a sense that corruption or financial excess had crossed some redlines. In the United States, despite the fact that elements of the financial-services industry nearly sank the economy in 2008, that same industry is still managing to blunt sensible reform efforts because it has so much money to sway Congress. It seems to have learned nothing. People are angry.
Meanwhile, in India, the commodities and telecommunications booms, coupled with urbanization that is driving up land prices, have set loose billions of rupees, and officials who control zoning and mining permits have just been pigging out. Some 50 top officials have been jailed lately for everything from the crony allocation of wireless spectrum, leading to potential losses to the state of up to $38 billion, to illicitly selling Indian iron ore, needed for development here, to China for a higher price. People are fed up.
Yet, commented the Indian writer Chetan Bhagat in The Times of India on Monday, ''our government attacks almost every anti-corruption crusader'' and ''sadly, even our opposition parties have lots of corrupt people.'' Sound familiar? Democracy not only needs a decent ruling party, but an intelligent opposition, and neither India nor America has both today.
Yes, Indians are mad at a system that makes them pay a bribe to get their birth certificate. Americans are mad at a system that has made it legal for unions to bribe the officials who will decide their pay and for bankers to bribe the lawmakers who will decide how much risk they can take. But both are essentially threatened by the same disease, best captured in the title of Robert Kaiser's book about lobbying -- ''So Damn Much Money'' -- and it's being thrown around now by so many special interests that these democracies are not only being warped by it but can't fix themselves either.
Hazare has called this moment India's ''second struggle for independence.'' I think he is on to something for both India and America. I think that repairing our respective dysfunctional democracies -- so they are truly enablers for the 21st century and not inhibitors in India's case or ''the sum of all lobbies'' in America's case -- is for our generation what the independence movement in India and the civil rights movement in America were for our parents' generation. Here's hoping we're as successful.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BRIBERY (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); POLITICS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GOA, INDIA (74%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2011



408 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Letting the Banks Off Easy

 BODY:
The banks want California, and the Obama administration hopes they can get it.
In September, the attorney general of California, Kamala Harris, withdrew from settlement talks between the banks and federal and state officials over mortgage abuses. Ms. Harris said California was being asked to excuse bank conduct that has not been adequately investigated and to grant the banks an unacceptably broad release from legal liability for the mortgage mess.
Those grave reservations have also been raised by other state attorneys general -- including Eric Schneiderman of New York and Joseph Beau Biden III of Delaware. The administration, however, wants a deal. As pressure builds to get on board, Ms. Harris and her like-minded peers should stand their ground and avoid letting the banks off easy. 
The administration says a settlement today would quickly deliver relief to needy borrowers. That's true as far as it goes, but it doesn't go far enough. Early word of the proposed settlement indicates that banks would reduce the balances on a million or so underwater loans by $17 billion to $20 billion. They would put up $5 billion to $8 billion to help pay for refinancings, counseling, legal services and other aid to homeowners. And they would have to adhere to tougher standards for loan servicing and foreclosures. That would be better than now but paltry compared with the potential extent of bank misconduct and with the scale of the mortgage debacle. At present, 14.5 million borrowers -- and the broader economy -- are drowning in some $700 billion of negative equity.
The administration also believes federal and state officials could effectively pursue investigations of unexamined issues after a settlement. We doubt that. The government's history on challenging banks and holding them accountable does not inspire confidence. And for banks -- threatened by crushing legal challenges for their conduct -- the whole point of settling is to restrict legal claims.
The proposed settlement reportedly would prevent the states from pursuing claims against banks relating to fraud or abuse in the origination of loans during the bubble. (In some states, the statute of limitations has expired for bringing challenges for faulty originations but not on all loans in all states.) It would also prevent states from pursuing claims for foreclosure abuses, like improper denial of loan modifications. And it would prevent them from pursuing banks' misconduct in their dealings with the Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems database, or MERS, a land registry system implicated in bubble-era violations of tax, trust and property law.
The proposal would not preclude the states from pursuing the banks for wrongdoing in the repackaging and marketing of loans as mortgage-backed securities. But, as a practical matter, the ability to fully press such claims -- and to achieve significant redress -- could be impeded or blocked by the other constraints. Once one avenue of inquiry is closed off, it can be difficult to ascertain what happened along other points in the mortgage chain.
In effect, the legal waivers being contemplated would let the banks pay up to sweep wrongdoing under the rug.
For the settlement to be fair and meaningful, the redress from the banks must be far greater than the $25 billion that has been floated, or the release from legal liability far narrower. The best outcome would be for government officials to do what they should have done all along: develop the strongest possible legal case by fully investigating the banks' conduct during the bubble and since the crash and then -- and only then -- talk settlement. In the meantime, the public is being well served by attorneys general who are willing to say that the deal currently on the table is not nearly good enough.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MISCONDUCT (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); HISTORY (78%); STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2011



409 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Energy Forecast: Fracking in China, Nuclear Uncertain, CO2 Up

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A new forecast through 2035 sees gas eating in to the dominance of coal. 

 BODY:
This year's World Energy Outlook report has been published by the International Energy Agency, and says wealthy and industrializing countries are stuck on policies that threaten to lock in "an insecure, inefficient and high-carbon energy system."
You can read worldwide coverage of the report here. Fiona Harvey of the Guardian has a piece on the report that focuses on the inexorable trajectories for carbon dioxide, driven by soaring energy demand in Asia.
A variety of graphs and slides can be reviewed here:
According to the report, Russia will long remain the world's leading producer of natural gas, but exploitation of shale deposits in the United States, and increasingly in China, will greatly boost production in those countries (which will be in second and third place for gas production in 2035).
Last month, in an interview with James Kanter of The Times and International Herald Tribune, the new head of the energy agency, Maria van der Hoeven, discussed one point made in the report today -- that concerns raised by the damage to the Fukushima Daiichi power plant could continue to dampen expansion of nuclear power and add to the challenge of avoiding a big accumulation of carbon dioxide, saying: "Such a reduction would certainly make it more difficult for the world to meet the goal of stabilizing the rise in temperature to 2 degrees Centigrade."
Here's the summary of the main points, released today by the agency: 
"Growth, prosperity and rising population will inevitably push up energy needs over the coming decades. But we cannot continue to rely on insecure and environmentally unsustainable uses of energy," said IEA Executive Director Maria van der Hoeven. "Governments need to introduce stronger measures to drive investment in efficient and low-carbon technologies. The Fukushima nuclear accident, the turmoil in parts of the Middle East and North Africa and a sharp rebound in energy demand in 2010 which pushed CO2 emissions to a record high, highlight the urgency and the scale of the challenge."
In the WEO's central New Policies Scenario, which assumes that recent government commitments are implemented in a cautious manner, primary energy demand increases by one-third between 2010 and 2035, with 90% of the growth in non-OECD economies. China consolidates its position as the world's largest energy consumer: it consumes nearly 70% more energy than the United States by 2035, even though, by then, per capita demand in China is still less than half the level in the United States. The share of fossil fuels in global primary energy consumption falls from around 81% today to 75% in 2035. Renewables increase from 13% of the mix today to 18% in 2035; the growth in renewables is underpinned by subsidies that rise from $64 billion in 2010 to $250 billion in 2035, support that in some cases cannot be taken for granted in this age of fiscal austerity. By contrast, subsidies for fossil fuels amounted to $409 billion in 2010.
Short-term pressures on oil markets are easing with the economic slowdown and the expected return of Libyan supply. But the average oil price remains high, approaching $120/barrel (in year-2010 dollars) in 2035. Reliance grows on a small number of producers: the increase in output from Middle East and North Africa (MENA) is over 90% of the required growth in world oil output to 2035. If, between 2011 and 2015, investment in the MENA region runs one-third lower than the $100 billion per year required, consumers could face a near-term rise in the oil price to $150/barrel.
Oil demand rises from 87 million barrels per day (mb/d) in 2010 to 99 mb/d in 2035, with all the net growth coming from the transport sector in emerging economies. The passenger vehicle fleet doubles to almost 1.7 billion in 2035. Alternative technologies, such as hybrid and electric vehicles that use oil more efficiently or not at all, continue to advance but they take time to penetrate markets.
The use of coal - which met almost half of the increase in global energy demand over the last decade - rises 65% by 2035. Prospects for coal are especially sensitive to energy policies - notably in China, which today accounts for almost half of global demand. More efficient power plants and carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology could boost prospects for coal, but the latter still faces significant regulatory, policy and technical barriers that make its deployment uncertain.
Fukushima Daiichi has raised questions about the future role of nuclear power. In the New Policies Scenario, nuclear output rises by over 70% by 2035, only slightly less than projected last year, as most countries with nuclear programmes have reaffirmed their commitment to them. But given the increased uncertainty, that could change. A special Low Nuclear Case examines what would happen if the anticipated contribution of nuclear to future energy supply were to be halved. While providing a boost to renewables, such a slowdown would increase import bills, heighten energy security concerns and make it harder and more expensive to combat climate change.
The future for natural gas is more certain: its share in the energy mix rises and gas use almost catches up with coal consumption, underscoring key findings from a recent WEO Special Report which examined whether the world is entering a "Golden Age of Gas". One country set to benefit from increased demand for gas is Russia, which is the subject of a special in-depth study in WEO-2011. Key challenges for Russia are to finance a new generation of higher-cost oil and gas fields and to improve its energy efficiency. While Russia remains an important supplier to its traditional markets in Europe, a shift in its fossil fuel exports towards China and the Asia-Pacific gathers momentum. If Russia improved its energy efficiency to the levels of comparable OECD countries, it could reduce its primary energy use by almost one-third, an amount similar to the consumption of the United Kingdom. Potential savings of natural gas alone, at 180 bcm, are close to Russia's net exports in 2010.
In the New Policies Scenario, cumulative CO2 emissions over the next 25 years amount to three-quarters of the total from the past 110 years, leading to a long-term average temperature rise of 3.5C. China's per-capita emissions match the OECD average in 2035. Were the new policies not implemented, we are on an even more dangerous track, to an increase of 6C.
"As each year passes without clear signals to drive investment in clean energy, the "lock-in" of high-carbon infrastructure is making it harder and more expensive to meet our energy security and climate goals," said Fatih Birol, IEA Chief Economist. The WEO presents a 450 Scenario, which traces an energy path consistent with meeting the globally agreed goal of limiting the temperature rise to 2C. Four-fifths of the total energy-related CO2 emissions permitted to 2035 in the 450 Scenario are already locked-in by existing capital stock, including power stations, buildings and factories. Without further action by 2017, the energy-related infrastructure then in place would generate all the CO2 emissions allowed in the 450 Scenario up to 2035. Delaying action is a false economy: for every $1 of investment in cleaner technology that is avoided in the power sector before 2020, an additional $4.30 would need to be spent after 2020 to compensate for the increased emissions.

        
U.S. Energy Choices and Global Climate Plans
        
More Evidence of a Big Greenhouse Advantage from Gas Over Coal
        
An M.I.T. Plan for Natural Gas With Planet in Mind
        
Gas Leaks on the Path to a Post-Fossil Future
        
Appalachian Coal to Power India?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (89%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); POPULATION GROWTH (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (68%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%) Carbon Dioxide; Coal; energy; fracking; gas; greenhouse gases; iea; renewable energy; Birol, Fatih; Alternative and Renewable Energy; Energy Efficiency; Fuel Efficiency; Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant (Japan); Greenhouse Gas Emissions; International Trade and World Market; Natural Gas; Nuclear Energy; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Solar Energy; Wind Power; International Energy Agency; China; Middle East; Russia; Climate Change; future

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (94%) International Energy Agency

PERSON: Birol, Fatih

GEOGRAPHIC: TOHOKU, JAPAN (93%) CHINA (95%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); ASIA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%) China; Middle East; Russia

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



410 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: HSBC Warns of Challenges Even as Profit Rises 66%

BYLINE: JULIA WERDIGIER


HIGHLIGHT: The bank's profit rose 66 percent in the third quarter as a gain on the value of its own debt masked higher loan losses and disappointing earnings from investment banking. 

 BODY:
8:30 a.m. | Updated
LONDON -- HSBC, one of Europe's largest banks, reported disappointing third-quarter earnings at its investment banking unit on Wednesday and said that troubles at its North American mortgage business reemerged as some customers stopped interest payments.
Net income rose 66 percent to $5.22 billion in the three months that ended on Sept. 30 from the same period last year, helped by a $4.1 billion gain HSBC booked on the value of its own debt. Pretax profit at the investment banking unit more than halved to $1 billion from $2.14 billion in the period.
Alex Potter, a banking analyst at Berenberg Bank, called the earnings "disappointing" but said that overall prospects for the bank remain positive. The drop in investment banking income was "little surprise in this kind of trading environment," he said.
HSBC said it was sticking to its plan to cut costs by $2.5 billion to $3.5 billion by the end of 2013, including eliminating 30,000 jobs, and would continue to scale back some businesses in slower growing regions, including Poland. But it also said that its mortgage business in the United States, the former Household International subprime lender, was weighing on the group's earnings again.
Iain J. Mackay, the finance chief, said Wednesday that "there is an increasing number of people who stopped paying us," forcing HSBC to take further charges for loan losses. HSBC set aside $3.89 billion for bad loans and other risk provisions in the quarter, up from $3.15 billion in the year-earlier period, mainly because of its business in North America.
HSBC started to wind down the U.S. mortgage portfolio about four years ago after billions of dollars in loan losses that forced management to admit the acquisition of Household in 2003 was a mistake. The mortgage book is currently worth about $50 billion. Delinquency rates on the loans -- those with missed payments of 360 days or more -- were the highest since the last quarter of 2009, Mr. Mackay said.
"Customers realized that if they stop paying, there's very little we or other banks can do," Mr. Mackay said. "This is an emerging trend. We monitor it very closely."
HSBC's shares fell 5.95 percent in London on Wednesday. They have dropped 22 percent this year, less than those of Deutsche Bank and Barclays, because investors have remained confident about HSBC's large business in faster-growing regions like China.
Still, the sovereign debt crisis in Europe hurt HSBC's investment banking operation, and Stuart Gulliver, the chief executive, said market conditions remained difficult.
"The outlook for the global economy is very challenging as problems in developed markets begin to affect growth rates around the world," Mr. Gulliver said. "Trading conditions showed some improvement during October, but they remain very difficult and continuing turbulence in global markets may result in further downside risk."
Mr. Gulliver said the financial sector was facing "significant headwinds," mainly because of continuing uncertainty about the economy, financial regulation and political leadership - especially in Europe.
Earnings at HSBC's retail banking and wealth management unit fell to $224 million from $802 million, while the bank earned $1.95 billion from its commercial banking business in the third quarter, up from $1.54 billion in the third quarter of last year.
To reduce costs, HSBC decided to sell its United States credit card business and 195 branches, mainly in upstate New York, earlier this year. The bank also agreed to exit the investment advisory business in Canada, abandon retail banking in Chile and end its car insurance operations in Britain.

        
HSBC Aiming to Cut $3.5 Billion in Costs
        
HSBC Profit Rises 58%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); TRENDS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (75%); DEBT CRISIS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (70%); GLOBALIZATION (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%) China; HSBC; Investment Banking; Stuart Gulliver; Financial Services; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) EUROPE (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



411 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Early Admission Returns to Princeton, and So Do the Applicants

BYLINE: JACQUES STEINBERG and REBECCA R. RUIZ


HIGHLIGHT: More than 3,500 applicants are seeking early admission to Princeton this fall, after the university reinstated its early admission program. 

 BODY:
Four years ago, Princeton and Harvard ended their early admission programs, in an effort to delay the beginning of the annual frenzy of applicants to secure a precious seat in the next freshman class. But when none of its main competitors followed suit, both institutions announced in February that they would once again offer applicants an opportunity to apply for admission in November, two months before the deadline for regular applications.
While it is too soon to know what impact the return of Harvard and Princeton to the early fray has had on other schools' applications -- both institutions bar its early applicants from applying early to any other private college -- a Princeton spokesman told The Choice Tuesday night that 3,547 students had applied by last week's deadline through its "single-choice early action'' program.
To put that figure in perspective, it is nearly triple the size of the entire freshman class. (In contrast to the prior early admission program at Princeton, this one is not binding on those who are accepted; they can apply to any other universities through their regular decision process, and take until May 1 to make a decision.)
A Harvard spokesman said its early-admission figures would not be released until next week. The Choice has queried more than 100 other colleges and universities about their early admission tallies, but a full portrait -- including one that brings into focus the impact of the economic downturn on early applications -- is unlikely to emerge until after Nov. 15, the deadline for many institutions.
But anecdotally, at least, it is clear that early applications to some highly selective colleges have continued to surge, despite the reentry of Princeton and Harvard, and the pinch on families' college savings accounts. Duke, for example, said that 2,716 students had applied this fall under its binding early-decision program, a 23 percent increase over last fall. (Those who apply under early decision programs commit in advance to enroll if accepted, and lose the ability to compare other colleges' financial aid offers.) Johns Hopkins said it had received 1,440 applications to its binding program, an increase of nearly 8 percent. And nearly 1,800 applied through Dartmouth's early decision program, a 2 percent increase.
You can post your comments on early admission programs using the box below.
Meanwhile, over on College Confidential, Sally Rubenstone, the site's senior advisor, has posted a self-described "rant" about "single-choice early action" in particular. She writes:
Once again, I see middle-income applicants caught in the middle. In order to apply to SCEA colleges, they cannot also shoot for some of the top full-tuition scholarships at other private institutions. For instance, Boston College's Presidential Scholars and Notre Dame's Hesburgh-Yusko Scholars program both require EA applications, as do similar merit options at other highly selective schools.
Do Choice readers agree? Let us know.

        
A Yes From Yale, but Waiting to Hear From Others
        
Some Early Returns on Early Admission
        
Applications to Selective Colleges Rise as Admission Rates Fall
        
The Early Line on Early Admission
        
A Fortuneteller's Prophecy: Dartmouth vs. Princeton

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); TUITION FEES (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (75%); EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PLANS (70%); FAMILY (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Dartmouth College; Duke University; early admission; Harvard University; Johns Hopkins University; Princeton University; Admissions Standards; Colleges and Universities; Admissions Buzz; For Juniors; For Parents; For Seniors

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (59%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (59%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (59%) Harvard University; Princeton University

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



412 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Thoughts of a Peacetime Veteran

BYLINE: KRISTINA SHEVORY


HIGHLIGHT: Eight years of service. Never took a bullet or watched a buddy die. She's lucky, right? 

 BODY:
I'm marching in my first Veterans Day parade this week and I doubt whether I really belong.
This isn't an incidence of stolen valor. I'm a veteran. I served eight years in the Army as a linguist, was discharged honorably and have the DD 214 to prove it. But I'm a peacetime veteran and never saw combat.
I learned how to fire an M-16, move under enemy fire, dig foxholes and throw grenades. Everything I would need for a war. But I never deployed because there was nothing going on. In my era, the years sandwiched between the Persian Gulf War and 9/11, it was quiet.
After the invasion of Kuwait, the thinking went, land wars were over and large numbers of ground troops would never be needed. War would now be carried out by drones and heat-seeking missiles and viewable on CNN. War would be quick and bloodless. I believed that.
When we invaded Iraq, I didn't race to a recruiter because I figured the war would last only a month, like the Persian Gulf war, or a few months at most. I remembered friends who had gone to war in the early 1990s and missed combat because it was over so quickly. Or others who spent more time mobilizing than in combat. I thought, "Why re-enlist for a quick war?"
Besides, after a string of internships, many unpaid, and a temporary job at The Associated Press, I had finally landed my dream job as a staff reporter at The Seattle Times - in the midst of a recession. To my colleagues at The A.P., it seemed I had won the lottery.
Back then, I was in my late 20s and had some (civilian) living to do. I wanted to write as much as possible and see if I could become one of the truly great reporters whose bylines I had followed over the years. With a father and grandfather who had worked at the Boston Globe, I wanted my own hard-boiled newspaper tales to share. I wanted to see how far I could go. Re-enlisting in the Army for another four years didn't make sense.
As the years spooled by, I became immersed in my life as a reporter, landing better and better jobs in Seattle, New York and San Francisco, and heard only occasionally from my old Army friends. Most had gotten out, and no one was serving downrange. War, for us, had become a distant concept.
But as I've grown older, I've wondered if I made a mistake by not re-enlisting. Did I miss the big event that will mark my generation? Was eight years in the Army during peacetime really worth anything? Am I selfish for not serving longer? Or am I one of those irritating privileged few who have the luxury to look back in safety and doubt my choice now that I'm in my late 30s?
I've confided my doubts to other peacetime veterans and learned that this guilt is widespread. Many say they also feel like they haven't fully completed their service and owe something to their friends who did see action.
This feeling of debt owed must be endemic because there are more than five million other veterans like me who served in peacetime, more than double the number of those who did time in Iraq and Afghanistan. Call us the quiet majority. We don't get parades, we don't have war stories, we can't join the V.F.W. or many of the new service groups because we got out too long ago or didn't see action.
Those of us who served during peacetime tend to remain quiet when the combat vets start talking. Friends who are still on active duty say even within the Army there's a divide between the troops who have been downrange and the ones who haven't.
Many civilians say I'm lucky. I got out before any of the wars started. I timed it right, they say. But I'm not so sure anymore. And neither are close friends of mine who served during peacetime. We feel like the second string who trained for the Big Game and endured hundreds of hours of drills and then never went to the tournament. We feel guilty to call ourselves veterans and sometimes have to remind ourselves that our military service wasn't a chimera. And sometimes, we pull out our discharge papers to remind ourselves that we did indeed serve.
Still, there's a growing sense that I'm not a full veteran. I didn't suffer hundreds of mortar attacks. I didn't roll over an I.E.D. on patrol in a Humvee. I didn't watch a buddy step on a land mine and turn into "pink mist."
Why not re-enlist? For most of us, we're in our mid- to late 30s and solidly immersed in our careers and know it would be crazy to re-enlist for the misbegotten idea that we want to finally use all of our training and get a war under our belts. But is it smart re-enlisting when you're 36, 38 even 40?
We'd probably get ourselves killed or maimed. It seems like a foolhardy thing to want to go to war, and yet we talk about it among ourselves. Some of us have re-enlisted in the reserves or work for the federal government as substitutes. Others have become advocates or lawyers who specialize in veterans' affairs.
I've decided to do what I do best: write. I've started reporting about the military because I know it so well and want to give voice to the combat veterans returning and their struggle to readjust to life after war. It doesn't seem like much compared to the men and women who have returned wounded or not at all, but it's something I tell myself. It is something I can give. It's something I owe.
My friends who fought in Iraq and Afghanistan are marching this Veterans Day in New York. They've invited me to join them. I grudgingly agreed. They tell me I'm welcome. I hope they're right.
Kristina Shevory served eight years in the Army as a linguist. She has written for The New York Times, Wired, Business Week and, most recently, The Atlantic. HerTwitter: @shevory.

        
Lives During Wartime, Vol. 3
        
Invitation to Veterans, Their Friends and Families
        
May Day
        
Art, and War and Consequences
        
Lives During Wartime, Vol. 2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); VETERANS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); PARADES & MARCHES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (67%); LOTTERIES (50%) Veterans; Veterans Day; war; Persian Gulf War; Veterans Day (US); Home Fires

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (54%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) WASHINGTON, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (67%) GULF STATES (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); KUWAIT (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



413 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Are We a Democracy?

BYLINE: GARY GUTTING


HIGHLIGHT: Why calls for "less government" mean more power for millionaires and corporations. 

 BODY:
Americans strongly support democracy both at home and abroad. But we are ambivalent about referendums (often in California, recently in Mississippi and in Greece), which put major decisions to the people as a whole. We don't fully trust "the people" to make legislative decisions. Those who remember their civics classes will note that we have not a direct but a representative democracy (or a republic). But many Americans don't think we are really "represented" by the people we elect, and, recently, the suspicion has grown that we in fact live in a plutocracy - a nation governed by the wealthy. But there are clearly also other elements that exercise political power over us.
Plato, in his still provocative "Republic," proposed that there are five types of government: aristocracy (rule by the "best", that is, by experts specially trained at governance), timarchy (rule by those guided by their courage and sense of honor), oligarchy (rule by a wealthy minority), democracy (rule by the people as a whole-a "mob" as Plato saw it), and tyranny (rule by a despot answerable to no one but himself). Plato's categorization is a good starting point for thinking about the nature of our government. Although we don't fit precisely any one of these type, each seems to express an element of our political system.
Plato's aristocracy, for example, corresponds to our federal bureaucracy, the various departments and agencies that (despite the low opinion of many) generally keep everything, from relations with foreign countries to national law enforcement, running reasonably well. (The value of this bureaucracy shows up best by contrast with unstable countries that lack a tradition of effective public service). Plato's timarchy corresponds to our military, with no independent authority but with a culture of competence and character that makes it a reliable instrument of civilian policy (even when the policies are misguided). Our oligarchs are the super-wealthy - the 1 percent - who fund our political campaigns and, especially, the corporations whose power pervades so much of political life. Given our commitment to a free-market economy, such power, despite its obvious dangers, is probably inevitable.
We are, of course, a democracy, but not in Plato's (Athenian) sense of a state in which all major decisions are made by majority vote of all citizens. Such pure democracy would be possible for us today, with people voting on everything via, say, cell phones. But we rightly don't trust ourselves this far - or even so far as to make frequent use of national referendums. Nor do we do a particularly good job of choosing competent and honest representatives. Rather, the essential function of our democratic elections is to guard against the worst abuses of power. Our democracy is not so much a positive force for good government as a protection against extremely bad government - ultimately against tyranny. Even so, there is an element of Plato's tyranny in our system. This lies in our de facto allowance for wide presidential discretion in matters of national security, which, particularly in wartime, can give a president something like dictatorial powers.
We are, in effect, not a democracy but a (note to classicists: sorry to mix Latin and Greek roots, but political scientists use in a different sense): a complex interweaving of many forms of government - indeed, of all Plato's five types. Our fundamental and enduring challenge is to find the right balance among these elements to protect fundamental freedoms while also ensuring that our leaders have the power, abilities, and character to, as our Constitution says, "promote the general welfare".
Much of our current debate over this challenge focuses on the question of whether we have "too much government," where "government" means the federal bureaucracy. Our "Platonic" analysis suggests that this is at best a gross oversimplificaton. The question, rather, is precisely how should we calibrate the relative strengths of all five elements of our multocracy. Current calls for "less government" actually mean less power for elected leaders and for the bureaucracies that serve them and more power for the "oligarchy" of millionaires and corporations. Such calls also imply less power for the people (the democratic element), since, while elected leaders are directly responsible to those who vote, those whose power is based on wealth are not. In fact, many of us who bristle at any government interference with our freedom and privacy, accept, as an economic necessity, similar interference from the companies we work for or do business with.
What we need is an integrated debate about all the powers that govern us, along with a recognition that all of them have essential roles but also pose dangers. In particular, "How can we recognize legitimate corporate interests while avoiding plutocracy?" is as essential a question as "Is the federal bureaucracy a threat to personal freedom?" Those worried about the evils of Big Government need to look not only at the executive branch in Washington but also at the executive offices of our major corporations.

        
Occupy Wall Street's 'Political Disobedience'
        
The Meaning of Utopia
        
Should Religion Play a Role in Politics?
        
The Usefulness of Anger: A Response
        
The Very Angry Tea Party

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) government; Philosophy; Politics; United States Government; Democracy (Theory and Philosophy); Politics and Government; United States Politics and Government; The Stone

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); GREECE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



414 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
Reuters: Check those food labels, if you can. China says about 10 percent of its farmland is contaminated with heavy metals. - Nick Fox
 Is one day of the week better than another when you want to go out to a restaurant? - Jeff Gordinier
The Local:Who knew? The venerable East Village Cheese Shop, known for fresh product and low prices, was bought in 2005 by two longtime employees who are from Tibet. They met the store's owner at a nearby Buddhist community center. - Julia Moskin
Lohud.com: In four years, food-stamp use in New York State rose 133 percent. Via @Gothamist. - Nick Fox
Nation's Restaurant News: Seems odd in an economic downturn, but restaurant chains like Red Lobster and KFC have retooled their advertising to emphasize quality over quantity and price. ...
The Los Angeles Times: ... And it may be working. A new study finds that as household income increases - to as much as $90,000 a year - so do visits to fast-food restaurants. - Patrick Farrell
PJ Wine Blog:Heading to Paris? Adam Eisenberg offers helpful hints on visiting the city's natural ?? wine bars. - Eric Asimov
The Wall Street Journal: O.K., gang, eat your vegetables, but watch out for Fodmaps, large molecules in certain veggies, fruits, legumes and grains that can ferment in the, um, colon and cause beaucoup discomfort. The acronym stands for fermentable oligosaccharides, disaccharides, monosaccharides and polyols. - Glenn Collins
Saveur:With Thanksgiving only a couple of weeks away (yikes), here's the history of how that whole sweet-potatoes-and-marshmallows deal came about. - Jeff Gordinier
The Washington Post: Maggie Austin LaBaugh makes some remarkably beautiful wedding cakes. - Nick Fox
 You might want to hire a ghost hunter before you open a restaurant in one of these doomed New York spots. - Jeff Gordinier
Food Safety News: A former sous chef at a Morton's Steakhouse in Boca Raton, Fla., is suing the chain for fostering an environment of "sexual harrassment and food impurity," claiming that he was groped by another male chef. - Glenn Collins
Zester Daily: Are East Coast chefs trying to be more macho than West Coast chefs? - Nick Fox
Brooklyn Guy: Fresh from a trip to Jerez - sherry country - the Brook tantalizes us with pictures of the region's fine tapas. - Eric Asimov
Dinner: A Love Story: A meditation on leftovers, the oddness of in-laws and the art of the spaghetti omelet. - Jeff Gordinier
Epicurious: Seafood and cheese - a marriage made in hell? How about chocolate and pretzels? Readers vent about food pairings they loathe. - Patrick Farrell
Afar:A look at the alluring South African street treat called bunny chow. - Jeff Gordinier
Matt Bites: The food blogger and photographer Matt Armendariz on assignment in Belize, shooting a book on the country's foodways. ?? - Julia Moskin
So You Want to Be a Sommelier?Levi Dalton answers his own question: his notes to young sommeliers give a clear window into the sommelier's world. - Eric Asimov
Nation's Restaurant News:Prominent restaurant chains urge Congress to repeal subsidies for corn-based ethanol producers because they are inflating food prices. - Nick Fox
The New York Times: Facing budget cuts, the Agriculture Department has decided to stop counting sheep, goats, catfish, hops and many other crops and livestock. Farmers say those reports, which date back to the 19th century, are critical for planning, buying and selling. - Patrick Farrell
Phoenix New Times: Now ask yourself: Do you want to join a club where you talk about books, or do you want to join a club where you get to eat pie? - Jeff Gordinier
The Huffington Post: Of cockles, barnacles, limpets, whelks and other lesser-known (and often less than lovely) treats from the sea. - Patrick Farrell
The Paris Review: Even lousy cooks can generate the occasional gem. Sadie Stein asks us to consider ... wine cake. - Jeff Gordinier
The Daily News: Allergic to cats? Think again about ordering the pork chop. Researchers have identified a "pork-cat syndrome" in which sufferers have an autoimmune reaction to both. - Patrick Farrell

        
The Role of the Sommelier
        
In Search of a Good Wine List
        
Reviewing Rouge et Blanc
        
Thanksgiving Countdown | You're Going to Need Wine With That Dinner
        
A Hops Harvest in Brooklyn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); FAST FOOD (90%); FOOD LIABILITY LITIGATION (89%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (78%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); FOOD LABELING (78%); CHEESE SHOPS (76%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); DRINKING PLACES (71%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (66%); THANKSGIVING (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); FOOD STAMPS (55%); RELIGION (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); RESEARCH REPORTS (54%) Bars; Cooking; Food; Restaurants; wine

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (69%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (88%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); TIBET (91%); CHINA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



415 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The 6th Floor)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: It's the Economy: 'The Patient Is Having a Heart Attack'

BYLINE: HUGO LINDGREN


HIGHLIGHT: Over on the Planet Money blog, Adam Davidson, author of our new It's the Economy column, has posted responses from John Cochrane of the University of Chicago and Dean Baker of the Center for Economic and Policy Research to his first column, "Can Anyone Really Create Jobs?" 

 BODY:
Over on the Planet Money blog, Adam Davidson, author of our new It's the Economy column, has posted responses from John Cochrane of the University of Chicago and Dean Baker of the Center for Economic and Policy Research to his first column, "Can Anyone Really Create Jobs?"
Here's a snippet from Cochrane:
The patient is having a heart attack, and at best we are discussing whether a double-shot of espresso might perk him up or whether a nip of brandy would do better.
Sounds like he is auditioning to be our new Drink columnist. Sorry, Cochrane, thatjob is taken.
Meanwhile, Davidson's column in this coming Sunday's magazine, "It's Not Just About the Millionaires," is up now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); WRITERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (52%) Davidson, Adam; Labor and Jobs; Center for Economic and Policy Research; University of Chicago

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (94%) Center for Economic and Policy Research; University of Chicago

PERSON: Davidson, Adam

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



416 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Who Gets Unemployment Benefits

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: As unemployment benefits have become more extensive in recent years, so has the inclination of jobless Americans to claim them, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
 
It's commonly assumed that unemployed people not receiving unemployment benefits have been unlucky enough to go without a job for so long that their benefits have run out. But often more important are limited work histories and a low propensity to take benefits that are available.
Historically, many unemployed people have not collected unemployment payments because of ineligibility, lack of awareness or simple unwillingness to collect benefits. But some of those patterns changed during the recent recession.
The chart below shows the number of unemployment compensation beneficiaries per unemployed person, for people 16 to 24, people 25 and over and all people 16 and over. This ratio can be less than one for all of the reasons mentioned and because some unemployed people may exhaust their benefits sometime during the calendar year.
Not surprisingly, more than three-quarters of young unemployed people do not receive unemployment compensation, in large part because they are much less likely to have the employment history that is required for eligibility. Young people are disproportionately represented among the unemployed, and their limited work histories are the primary reason why a large fraction of the unemployed does not receive benefits.
More striking is the increase to 85 percent from 50 percent among people 25 and over. Before the recession began, about a quarter of unemployed people that age had been unemployed for more than 26 weeks, when unemployment benefits were typically exhausted. 
The remaining quarter of the unemployed did not receive benefits for a variety of other reasons: they may not have been interested in or aware of benefits, or they may have been ineligible because they quit their jobs (rather than lost them).
By 2010, unemployment was lasting much longer, but the time for receiving benefits had increased even more. Ninety-two weeks was a typical unemployment benefit period in 2010 (in some states it was 78 weeks, in others 99 weeks), yet only 12 percent of the unemployed 25 and over were unemployed that long. 
That means as many as 88 percent of the people that age who were unemployed could have received benefits. That 85 percent received benefits tells us how rare it was for eligible people to forgo benefits during the recession.
The recipiency rate change from 2007 to 2010 is thus a combination of a decreased likelihood of exhausting benefits and an increased propensity to receive benefits early in the unemployment spell. These two factors change so much that even though the average weekly number of unemployed people 25 and over increased by more than six million from 2007 to 2009, the average weekly number of those people not receiving unemployment insurance actually fell by 700,000. (For the purposes of this calculation, I assume that, consistent with the law, nobody received unemployment benefits for a week that she or he was employed.) 
This absolute decline in nonparticipating unemployed suggests that people are more willing (equivalently, less unwilling) to collect unemployment benefits than they were before the recession began.
Unemployment insurance is known for its ability to expand eligibility as a recession gets going, whether through the "extended benefits" that take effect at given jobless rates or through legislative action beyond that. But an adjustment almost as important has occurred in the labor force itself: during the recession, people increased their propensity to take advantage of available benefits.

        
How Unemployment Benefits Became Twice as Generous
        
Safety Nets and Their Cost
        
How Payroll Tax Cuts Can Create Jobs
        
Digging Deeper Into What Caused Job Losses
        
Are Employers Requiring People to Work Longer Hours?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (96%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); TRENDS (71%) Casey B. Mulligan; Daily Economist; employment; long-term unemployed; Unemployment; unemployment duration; Unemployment Insurance; Economic Conditions and Trends; United States Economy; Today's Economist

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



417 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: For Soldiers, the End of the Mail Means the End of the War

BYLINE: BRANDON FRIEDMAN


HIGHLIGHT: From afar, a milestone that signals the end of an important chapter in some young lives. 

 BODY:
When the war was violent and stupid and terrifying, and I was hot and cold and tired, I joked that my goal in life was to have a job in which I would walk into the office each day in a suit and tie, carrying a briefcase, a newspaper and a cup of coffee. I would say hello to my office assistant on the way to a comfortable chair by my nice desk. There would be no ruck laden with mortar rounds, no ammo magazines with tracer rounds carefully interspersed, no disembodied voice on a radio. 
I first had this fantasy falling asleep to the sound of an AC-130 hitting Al Qaeda positions before dawn in Afghanistan's snow-covered Shah-e-Kot Valley. I later told a friend about it after we shot up a car one night in northern Iraq. When I told him, I was still shaking as the adrenaline high of combat subsided. I carried the fantasy of the office job with me. 
And every time I got a package in the mail - or a handwritten letter from a high school friend - I weighed the infantry life I had always wanted against the fantasy.
Last week, on the ninth floor of the Department of Veterans Affairs in Washington, D.C., we sat around the lunch table. My sleeves were rolled up and a suit coat hung in my office. Across from me, holding a sandwich, Alex Horton was wearing khakis and a tie; Josh Tuscher was in a suit. Neither had shaved in a couple of days. Next to me, Lauren Bailey and Kate Hoit were slicing up vegetables they had both brought from home. 
We chatted about writing deadlines and story ideas, including parking and depression; about how Lauren's photo project was consuming much of our time and how Josh was running behind on the new news release tracker. We mixed in the latest on who's sleeping with whom, who's getting fired, and the existential crisis of the week - standard on a team aged 26 to 36 inside the Beltway.
We were about as far removed from the line as we could possibly be. And that's something that tugs at me often.
On the TV above us, MSNBC began broadcasting a segment on the impending pullout from Iraq. It was about how mail postmarked after Nov. 17, 2011 would not be delivered to American troops in the country.
We stopped talking and stared at the TV. "Turn it up, please," I said to Alex from across the table. The four of us who had served in Iraq sat in silence as the station told us that our war, after nearly a decade, was drawing to an end. Because that is what it means when the mail stops in a war zone.
After the segment went to commercial, the table got quiet. I felt like a snake that had just dislocated its jaw to swallow the news whole. "I was there when the mail started," I said. 
In our Washington office, it was hard to explain or describe the idea to Lauren - this idea of mail in combat. As Napoleon once famously said, an Army marches on its stomach. And that's true. But it survives on word from home. So even though the president had announced an end to American military involvement days earlier, for us, the effect around the table was palpable.
Only minutes earlier, Kate had been focused on posting videos to YouTube. She looked at us and said, "I don't know what to do now."
I sighed and looked at her awkwardly. "I don't either."
The war in Iraq has always been there for us. In fact, many times I envisioned it never ending. Like an item on the to-do list that never gets crossed off. It was a terrible event that caused nightmares, but that we each still used, periodically, as a source of pride and credibility in our professional lives. Whatever it was, it takes up a tremendous amount of space on our mental hard drives. And watching it wind down will leave a hole. For Alex, it started when he was in high school. Kate was 19. Josh and I were in our mid-20s. None of us knew each other. 
After physically walking away from the war, I went back to school and got a graduate degree. I got married and wrote a book. I bought a house in suburban Virginia. I got the job with the suit and the desk. And I did all this against the backdrop of a war that went on without me. A war I had abandoned years earlier.
At home over the last seven years, each time I have watched a news story about the war, it has been like getting a gritty, bloodstained postcard from an old friend.
Now, in Iraq at least, it is last call for mail. Soon enough, it will end in Afghanistan, too. And I will be where I want to be, in my suit, in my office. Alex, Kate, Josh, and me - we will each move on in our own way. Even if we do not know what that means yet. For me, it is a line from the end of "Red Dawn" - another fantasy that fed my war craving as a reckless child - that captures what it is like and what it will be like: 
"In time, this war - like every other war - ended. But I never forgot. And I come to this place often, when no one else does."

        
Study on 'Burn Pits' Cites Inadequate Evidence of Health Effects
        
New Data on High Unemployment Among Recent Veterans
        
On Opinion: Documenting Veterans
        
Service Members in Afghanistan: Send Us Your Photos
        
Share Stories of Your Service in Afghanistan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (75%) Afghanistan; Veterans; Afghanistan War (2001- ); Iraq War (2003- ); Veterans Affairs Department; Iraq; A Soldier Writes; At War

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%) Veterans Affairs Department

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (74%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) Afghanistan; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



418 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: For an Immigrant, a Shrinking Business and a Maze of Obstacles

BYLINE: PATRICK WALL


HIGHLIGHT: Foreign-born business owners, like Abel Cherubin, must tread through a thicket of obstacles, which have only been compounded during the economic downturn. 

 BODY:
In better times, Abel Cherubin maintained a staff of six at his tax preparation business in Brooklyn, drove a BMW and even purchased a plot of land in his native Haiti, where he planned to build a school.
But in recent years, as his client base shrank by more than half, Mr. Cherubin, 54, has been forced to lay off the last of his employees, walk rather than drive to work and halt the construction of his Haitian school. Last month, Mr. Cherubin narrowly avoided eviction. Now, he has six weeks to raise the remaining $5,000 he owes his landlord.
Immigrants like Mr. Cherubin represent about 69,000 of New York City's 144,000 small business owners, according to a recent report by the Fiscal Policy Institute. 
Though these foreign-born entrepreneurs fuel New York's economy with jobs, tax revenue, and goods and services, they must tread through a thicket of obstacles, which have only been compounded during the economic downturn.
Nationwide, immigrants are more likely than their American counterparts to start businesses, according to a 2008 analysis by the federal Small Business Administration. Experts offer various reasons: a lack of job opportunities due to skill or language challenges, the influence of business-owning peers or even a risk-taking spirit.
"It takes a certain type of person to say, 'I'm going to leave my homeland and seek out opportunities in another place,'" said Carl Hum, president and chief executive of the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce. "It's that same DNA that leads a person to say, 'I can't find a job, so I'm going to create my own job.'"
Mr. Cherubin came to New York from Gonaives, Haiti, in 1983. His mother had implored her son - a university-trained industrial mechanic with a "big mouth" - to avoid the fate of his father, a political prisoner who died in jail.
Once here, Mr. Cherubin worked in factories and drove taxis and a school bus before enrolling in a course on financial services. Soon afterward, Mr. Cherubin used his savings to rent a storefront in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, and open his own insurance sales and tax preparation business.
For 16 years, Mr. Cherubin has run the business and, for much of that time, he prospered. He estimates that his business generated income of $300,000 annually in his best years - enough for him to hire a staff, send relatives monthly remittances and purchase the Haitian artwork that covers the walls of his office.
But beginning in 2007, Mr. Cherubin's clientele - a mix of working-class blacks, Latinos and West Indians - dwindled to 300 customers, from a peak of 800. He said many longtime customers left the city because of financial problems or replaced him with cheaper, online tax services. Last year, his total revenue dropped to $65,000. 
With his earnings drastically reduced, Mr. Cherubin has struggled to cover basic operating costs and has had to borrow thousands of dollars from friends. In October, after his landlord began eviction proceedings, Mr. Cherubin paid $4,500 in back rent using money lent to him by his girlfriend. In the coming weeks, he plans to ask friends for the $5,000 he still owes his landlord. He hopes to repay them during tax season - provided he is still in business.
Meanwhile, he has stopped answering calls from some Haitian relatives, fearing they would ask for money he does not have.
"Mentally, it's a lot of stress," Mr. Cherubin said. " Sometimes you lose weight, you don't sleep at night. You ask yourself, 'If things become worse, what you going to do?'"
The recession and its aftermath have battered many of the city's small business owners, regardless of their country of origin. But immigrants often face additional challenges as they try to weather the tough economy. A 2009 study by Babson College and Baruch College found that immigrants in New York were less likely than nonimmigrants to own a business that has been running for more than three and a half years, and more likely to have closed a business within the past year.
Language issues make it difficult for some foreign-born business owners to comply with the city's many business regulations or to reach customers beyond local ethnic enclaves. Others lack experience and fumble with business basics like record keeping, payroll and marketing. 
A major stumbling block for Mr. Cherubin has been borrowing money. Many small-business owners struggle to obtain loans from risk-averse banks, but immigrants often have a harder time, as many possess little collateral and have bad or nonexistent credit histories. 
"We've come across a lot of strong businesses whose growth is hampered by access to credit," said Nancy Carin, executive director of the Business Outreach Center Network, based in New York, which offers technical assistance and loans to small businesses.
Mr. Cherubin applied to the city and a private bank for loans in the past, but in each case he was denied because of his low credit rating, he said. As a result, he turned to family members and friends for money.
Some critics say the city has not done enough to support foreign-born entrepreneurs and to incorporate them into its broader economic development plans. City officials noted several new initiatives meant to provide funding, training and exposure to foreign-born business owners.
Meanwhile, Mr. Cherubin is unsure whether his business will survive the few months left until tax season. Normally, he would paint bright scenes of the Haitian countryside to ease his mind, but this latest financial uncertainty has kept him away from the canvas.
"If you paint when you have trouble, everyone will see that," said Mr. Cherubin. "When they see your painting, they will see your sorrow."

        
From a Brooklyn Street Corner, a Women's Cleaning Cooperative Grows
        
Promoting More Visits Between Korea and New York
        
$13.5 Million in Incentives Lures a Publishing Company
        
Steuben Glass Factory and Store to Close
        
Obama Jobs Plan Would Boost the City, Comptroller Says

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); IMMIGRATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); EVICTION (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (74%); TRENDS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); RETAILERS (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%) economy; immigrants; small businesses; Economic Conditions and Trends; Immigration and Emigration; Small Business; Brooklyn (NYC); Haiti; Housing & Economy

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (58%) Brooklyn (NYC); Haiti

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



419 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: In Some Areas, Home Ownership Is Still Out of Reach

BYLINE: TARA SIEGEL BERNARD


HIGHLIGHT: Even though prices have declined, the cost of buying a home in many parts of the country can still be out of reach. 

 BODY:
The housing market may have crashed in many parts of the country, but there is still a contingent of would-be buyers living an alternate reality. They make a decent living, they save, but it's still not enough to break into the gated communities formerly known as New York, Los Angeles and Boston.
In these metropolitan areas and their outskirts, pricing is likely to end up higher, relative to local income, than it was before the housing bubble, according to Fiserv Case-Shiller.
So in Wednesday's special section, I profiled Steve and Logan Kinney, both 27-year-old public school teachers, who have lived through the frustrations of trying to buy in New York City. The couple got married two years ago and want to complete their American dream by buying a modest home not too far from where they work. They also want to start a family.
But a budget of $250,000 doesn't go very far in the city. And even if they could find something they could responsibly afford, they would need to come up with at least $60,00 -- if they want to make a 20 percent down payment and keep some money in the bank after they close.
Earlier this morning, I received an e-mail from another young couple looking to buy their first home in Brooklyn. They had just learned that their offer on a $485,000 apartment, which was initially accepted, had fallen through; the seller received an all cash offer. The first offer they made, on another apartment, was lost to another buyer putting down 50 percent in cash.
Have you tried to buy in any of these still seemingly frothy areas? Please share your experiences in the comment section below.

        
Bearing the Brunt of the New Mortgage Cap
        
Mortgage Rates Hit 50-Year Low
        
Homeowners in Denial About Value of Properties
        
What's a Reasonable Home Down Payment?
        
Angry Homeowners 'Foreclose' on Lenders

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); CITIES (76%); FORECLOSURE (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); MORTGAGE RATES (62%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (55%) Buying a Home; Mortgages; Personal Finances; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); New York City

COMPANY: FISERV INC (57%)

TICKER: FISV (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011



420 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: Questions for the Candidates

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: Some questions I'd like answered at the Republican debate tonight. 

 BODY:
The Republican presidential candidates are meeting in Michigan tonight for a CNBC-hosted debate. I often feel that moderators are too soft on the candidates, so, in collaboration with Times editorial board members Lawrence Downes, David Firestone, Carol Giacomo, Juliet Lapidos, Teresa Tritch, and David Unger, I've come up with some questions (actually, a whole lot of questions, but we're talking about the presidency, not an application to run a pizza franchise). CNBC, if you're reading, please feel free to plagiarize.
The Economy
What steps do you think are needed to prevent a recurrence of the financial meltdown that began during the last Republican presidency?For fiscal year 2011, total federal spending was roughly $3.8 trillion and total federal revenues were roughly $2.2 trillion. What do you think is the appropriate level for total federal spending, and would you raise taxes, if necessary, to balance the budget at that level?Meeting the goal of eliminating the deficit without raising a dime in taxes will require the reduction or elimination of scores of programs that are extremely popular with the American people - Medicare, national parks, veterans benefits, Head Start, Pell Grants, etc. Yet most of you have described this process as easy. Why not level with voters and acknowledge that your path requires very hard choices, and a radical redefinition of government's role?Many of you accuse President Obama of abandoning the middle class. Yet almost none of you talk about the economy's huge impact on the poor, whose ranks are growing. They depend on the programs you want to cut, so what do you say to voters in poverty, other than a vague promise that they will be helped by a growing economy?States and cities are feeling financial pain that's even greater than the federal government's. Many are closing fire houses or turning off street lights. Most of you want to cut federal aid to states, and many of your fellow Republican governors want to cut state taxes. Please explain how these distressed cities should plan to get through the next few years. (And please don't blame these problems on public unions, because most state and local governments are not unionized.)For Rick Perry: There is no disputing that under your tax plan, the wealthiest Americans would get a big tax break. Even you did not dispute this in a recent interview with the New York Times. Given the deficit, widening income inequality and the fact that majorities of Americans support for the basic Occupy Wall Street demand for a fairer shake, how do you justify another tax cut for the rich?For Michele Bachmann: Given rules of supply and demand, please explain how your pledge for $2 a gallon gasoline would work.
Domestic Policy
Every year either Houston or Los Angeles vies for the most polluted air in America. Many of you want to eliminate the EPA, or most of its clean-air rules. Please tell voters in those two cities what you would do to clean up their air, and how killing the federal agency would help that goal.Michele Bachmann has promised to finish constructing a fence along the Mexican border by 2013: "Every mile, every foot, every inch," double walled. The border is 2,000 miles long, and the completed fence will cost many billions of dollars. Many of you seem to agree with Ms. Bachmann that a fence is necessary. How do you propose to pay for it?The United States spends more money on health care per person than any other country. Some of the countries that spend less have a socialized "single-payer" system that covers all citizens. What do you make of this fact?The United States has less than 5 percent of the world's population, but has almost a quarter of the world's prisoners, according to 2008 figures. Do you think that's a problem? If so, what would you do to bring down rates of incarceration in this country?Occupy Wall Street and related protests have brought attention to rising income inequality in America. According to the CIA World Factbook, the United States is not only less equal than European and Scandinavian countries such as Sweden, Germany, and Ireland, but also less equal than South Korea, Turkey, India, Morocco and nearly 100 other nations. What would you do as president to address income inequality?For the candidates who want private accounts for Social Security: Most Americans are not and never will be financially prepared for retirement. Even those who have saved diligently have been pummeled by market bubbles and crashes and by zero percent interest rates for the past several years. When people are already destined for insecure retirements, why would you advocate a change to the system that requires individuals to shoulder more risk?
Foreign Policy
Under what conditions would you commit American troops to combat missions abroad?Should the United States help pro-democracy protesters in Syria and if so, how? Is rhetorical support sufficient or would you also: 1) Impose tougher sanctions beyond those already imposed (if so, what would they be?) 2) Provide arms and intelligence 3) Intervene militarily 4) Establish a no-flight zone 5) All of the aboveHow would you change policy toward Pakistan? Should the US shift to a policy of containing Pakistan? Should military and/or economic aid to Pakistan be reduced/increased/reconfigured?Do you support a two-state solution between Israel and the Palestinians? If so, how would you achieve it? Be specific.As president, how would you respond to the latest IAEA report on Iran? Would you increase sanctions and if so, what sanctions exactly? Should the US attack Iran's program even though it would only set the program back a year or two and could have huge political ramifications in the region? Should it support an attack by Israel?Should the US reduce its nuclear weapons arsenal and its nuclear budget and if so, how?Is it important to stop other countries - and militant groups - from obtaining nuclear weapons? What is your strategy for doing so?Should the US continue to fund foreign aid programs? If not, could you still conduct diplomacy? Or is a preponderant reliance on military spending all the US needs to stay safe?For Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum, who went on in a recent debate about waging a trade war with China: If we learned anything from the Great Depression it was that starting a trade war is a losing proposition (due to tit for tat reprisals that impoverish all combatants). Starting a trade war is easy, but how do you win one?
Appointments
If elected president, what would your criteria be for appointing new Supreme Court Justices?How will you select your cabinet members? Would you consider appointing a Muslim American or an atheist to your cabinet?
Justice and Detention

        
Do you believe that the president has the authority to declare people to be "unlawful enemy combatants" and to keep them in detention indefinitely? Does the Congressional authorization for the use of force against al Qaeda justify detention regimes and coercive interrogations that would be illegal under any other circumstances?
        
Do you think that the Justice Department and the FBI should have a role in interrogating, charging and prosecuting suspected terrorists? Or should that be left to the military?
Readers, please add your own questions to the comments section. I'll do a follow-up with some of your questions later today.

        
A High-Tech Lynching by Harry Belafonte
        
Amazing Denials
        
Fantasy Politics
        
Welcome

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (88%); TAX RELIEF (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (71%); PLAGIARISM (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); MEDICARE (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (60%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); FRANCHISING (56%); VETERANS (51%); AIR POLLUTION (50%) Debates (Political); editorial board; Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011



421 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Panel Rules Against Regulators in Thomas Weisel Case

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: But the Finra hearing panel also concluded that the firm lacked the controls to ensure that clients could properly give their consent for auction-rate securities trades. 

 BODY:
In a victory for Thomas Weisel Partners, a hearing panel for the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority has cleared the investment bank of nearly all charges related to the sale of auction-rate securities during the last financial crisis.
The firm -- which was found to be in violation of one charge, failing to have "adequate supervisory systems and procedures" -- will be fined $200,000 and the cost of the hearing, according to the decision.
It's a small price for Thomas Weisel, which had put aside about $4 million for the case.
In recent years, regulators have cracked down on firms that tried to peddle aggressively auction-rate securities, long-term bonds whose interest rates are reset monthly. In 2008, several firms continued to market such instruments as safe investments, despite increasing market turmoil.
Last year, Finra's enforcement division accused Thomas Weisel and one of its investment advisers, Stephen H. Brinck, who is known as Henry, of "stuffing" $15.7 million worth of auction-rate securities into three client portfolios -- right before the market for those securities collapsed. 
Finra has claimed that the firm was aware of the rising risk of these securities but was offloading them into client accounts in a bid to raise money for employee bonuses. According to the enforcement division, the firm transferred these securities without proper consent and gave two clients false information in order to secure "retroactive consent," according to a copy of the decision reviewed by DealBook. Regulators have also accused the firm of providing Finra with false information and not having the proper controls in place to prevent these transactions. 
In the decision, the hearing panel concluded that Thomas Weisel and Mr. Brinck had no reason "to anticipate the market failure that occurred two weeks later" and that there was not enough evidence to determine that they intended to defraud its clients or that they provided false information to clients and Finra. The panel, however, did conclude that the firm lacked the proper controls to ensure that clients could properly give their consent for trades.
Finra's enforcement division still has the option to appeal the division. Finra declined to comment. 
Although Thomas Weisel is walking away with barely a slap on the wrist, some of its peers have been less lucky. In 2010, Oppenheimer settled a lawsuit with the New York attorney general, agreeing to buy back $31 million in auction-rate securities. And earlier this summer, Raymond James settled with the Securities and Exchange Commission, also agreeing to buy back investments and pay $1.75 million to state regulators. 
Stifel Nicolaus, which acquired Thomas Weisel for $300 million last year, did not immediately respond to requests for comment. 
An earlier version of this post misspelled the name of the firm that faced charges related to the sale of auction-rate securities. The firm is Thomas Weisel Partners, not Thomas Wiesel. 

        
UBS Fined $12 Million Over Short-Selling
        
Krawcheck Steps Down From Post at Wall St. Regulator

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); BONDS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%) auction-rate securities; Financial Industry Regulatory Authority; Finra; Oppenheimer; Raymond James; Stifel, Nicolaus; Thomas Weisel Partners; Securities and Commodities Violations; Brinck, Stephen H.; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (96%) Financial Industry Regulatory Authority

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



422 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: An Accounting of Programs That Aim to Help Troops

BYLINE: JAMES DAO


HIGHLIGHT: After a RAND Corporation study, a call for the Defense Department to conduct a comprehensive assessment of service members' needs. 

 BODY:
As the Iraq and Afghanistan wars have taken their toll on the physical and mental health of America's service members and their families, the number of Pentagon programs intended to treat traumatic brain injury, or provide psychological, marital or spiritual support to the troops and their loved ones, has proliferated. 
So much so that the Defense Department was having trouble keeping track of what it had to offer. 
For that reason the Pentagon recruited the RAND Corporation to catalog for the first time all of the military's programs dealing with traumatic brain injury and the mental and social health of its troops. The goal was to begin a process of evaluating whether programs overlap, whether more are needed, which are effective and which are not.
The first step was a report,released on Wednesday, that found that there are 211 discrete programsrun by the armed services. Some are preventive. Some build resilience. Some are intended to help leaders identify problems in troops. Some coordinate care.
The authors of the report, Robin M. Weinick and Carrie Farmer, say it is impossible to know which are working best because the programs are highly decentralized, often run by specific bases, and because there is no system of tracking or evaluating them. Ms. Weinick said it might be fine if the Army, Marine Corps, Navy and Air Force each run similar programs, provided that they are tailored to the special needs of their forces. But it is impossible to know right now whether they are, she said.
"The good news is, there are a lot of programs to assist military service members" dealing with traumatic brain injury, depression, post-traumatic brain injury and other psychological issues, Ms. Weinick said. "But our work suggests that there is significant duplication of effort, both within and across branches of service."
The report calls on the Defense Department to conduct a comprehensive assessment of service members' psychological needs, then review existing programs to make sure they are meeting those needs, are located in the right places, complement each other and use the best evidence-based treatments available.
"The proliferation of programs creates a high risk of a poor investment of DOD resources," the authors write. "Given the financial investment that the nation is making in caring for service members with mental health programs and T.B.I., service members and their families deserve to know what these investments are buying."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BRAIN INJURIES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); BRAIN (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (89%); ARMIES (78%); DEPRESSION (78%); AIR FORCES (73%); EVIDENCE BASED MEDICINE (73%); WRITERS (72%) Afghanistan War (2001- ); Iraq War (2003- ); United States Defense and Military Forces; Defense Department; Rand Corp; Afghanistan; Iraq; At War; health

COMPANY: RAND CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Defense Department; Rand Corp

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) Afghanistan; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



423 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Defiant

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
Today's Times

        
In a nationally televised news conference, Herman Cain insisted he was innocent of sexual harassment, even as another woman came forward in public. Railing against a "Democrat machine," Mr. Cain offered a defense of his personal integrity and a condemnation of the news media. Michael D. Shear, Jim Rutenberg and Mike McIntire report on the ballooning scandal, which could come up in the Republican debate Wednesday night.

        
William M. Daley, the White House chief of staff, has ceded some of his management responsibilities to Pete Rouse, a senior aide with close ties to the president, Helene Cooper, Mark Landler and Jeff Zeleny report.

        
Democratic and Republican members of a Congressional panel on deficit reduction have begun delivering rival versions of the same message: If the joint committee cannot reach an agreement, the other side will be responsible, Robert Pear reports. Some are desperately trying to avoid blame for the possible collapse of talks aimed at breaking an impasse between those who want to raise taxes and those who would prefer to cut spending by focusing on entitlement programs.
Around the Web 

        
Ben Cohen and Jerry Greenfield, co-founders of Ben and Jerry's, personally scooped ice cream for Occupy D.C. demonstrators on Tuesday, the Huffington Post reports.
Happenings in Washington

        
President Obama will meet with President Anibal Cavaco Silva of Portugal in the Oval Office before delivering remarks at the National Women's Law Center's annual awards dinner.

        
Several economic reports will be released Wednesday, including third-quarter data on extended mass layoffs and metropolitan home prices.

        
The Early Word: Accusations
        
The Early Word: Flying on Another's Dime
        
The Early Word: Pressure
        
The Early Word: Shortage
        
The Weekend Word: Second Look

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); ICE CREAM (71%); HOME PRICES (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (69%) The Early Word; United States Politics and Government; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL WOMEN'S LAW CENTER (54%)

PERSON: HERMAN CAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (57%); PETE ROUSE (55%); ANIBAL CAVACO SILVA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



424 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: The Developing World, Leading on Climate Change?

BYLINE: VIVEK DEHEJIA


HIGHLIGHT: Weighing environmental impact and economic growth. 

 BODY:
In what may turn out to be one of the abiding ironies of global geopolitics, leadership on climate change seems to have suddenly passed from the developed to the developing world, as has public anxiety about the damaging effects of a changing climate.

As recently as the Copenhagen summit in late 2009, the West blamed large developing countries such as China and India for scuppering the chances of a "grand agreement" to curb the emission of greenhouse gases. Poor developing countries argued they needed the right to pollute in order to catch up to the West in terms of economic development, while the rich nations clucked that the world could ill afford more carbon emissions.

On the flip side, at the Cancun summit a year later, India's then environment minister, Jairam Ramesh, was pilloried in the domestic press, and accused, by his own admission, of "caving in to the United States" in the final near-consensus plan that was agreed.
How quickly things have changed.
In the unfolding presidential election campaign in the United States, climate change is not a major issue. According to a recent poll, only 59 percent of Americans even believe that the planet is warming, as compared to 79 percent in 2006.
In the developing world, which was long accused of ignoring the environment in order to focus on growth, concern about the environment has been growing. A 2010 survey found that more than 70 percent of people in China, India and South Korea would be willing to pay more for energy if this would help mitigate the effects of climate change. Fewer than 40 percent of Americans are willing to do that.
While it may not be surprising that Americans' enthusiasm for tackling climate change is flagging in lockstep with the stagnating economy, the evolution of attitudes in India and elsewhere in the developing world is surely noteworthy.
The conventional wisdom suggests that most people in poorer countries blame the rich world for creating the problem of global warming, which goes hand in glove with the belief that rich countries are both morally and economically responsible for fixing it.
Scientists, meanwhile, have long argued that the developing world is likely to pay the highest price for the effects of global warming. The apparently increasing occurrence of extreme weather events in places like India, such as worsening problems caused by flooding, may be evidence of this point of view, and hence responsible, in part, for the changing mindset in poorer countries.
To the extent that changed attitudes feed through into policy, one might expect increasingly stringent environmental regulation in India in future. That could help mitigate the effects of climate change, but what impact is it likely to have on economic growth? With their rapidly growing populations that harbor ever-higher aspirations, political stability and social harmony in India and China require increased and more widely shared prosperity.
To understand the likely effect of strengthened environmental regulation, it is worth taking a look at the impact, both in terms of well-being and economic growth, of existing regulations.
Unfortunately, the way that economists have generally modeled the relationship between the environment and economic development precludes a fully-fledged answer to these questions. They typically assume that the channel of causation runs from a given level, or growth rate, of economic activity to the level of environmental degradation. This makes it impossible to explore the possibility that causality may run in the opposite direction, feeding back from a worsening environment to economic growth.
Even still, some useful results may be found in a recent study by economists Michael Greenstone of M.I.T. and Rema Hanna of Harvard's Kennedy School. Using a rich trove of data, the authors conduct a statistical analysis to determine if government regulations have been effective in their stated objectives of improving the quality of air and water, and whether there has been any discernible impact on infant mortality.
The results reveal that air pollution regulations have been effective at reducing ambient concentrations of particulate matter, sulfur dioxide, and nitrogen dioxide, all of which are contributors to global warming. The fact that this has occurred during a period of rapid economic growth is striking.
Likewise, the effect of air pollution regulations on infant mortality works in the "right" direction of improved outcomes, but the effect is statistically indiscernible. By contrast, the water pollution regulations have had no statistically measurable effect on water quality.
So why have the air pollution regulations been effective while the water quality regulations have not? Mr. Greenstone and Ms. Hanna argue that "bottom-up environmental policies," such as Supreme Court-mandated air quality regulations coming out of public interest litigation, "are more likely to succeed than policies, like the water pollution regulations that are initiated by political institutions."
This tallies with the opinion of environmental policy experts. Rajendra K. Pachauri, who chairs the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, an organization that shared the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize with former Vice President Al Gore, recently told India Ink that the resources devoted to cleaning India's rivers have not led to tangible results. He blamed the lack of an "appropriate oversight mechanism" which would create transparency and accountability.
So, do the Greenstone-Hanna findings represent good news? The answer depends on your point of view. To the extent that they establish the effectiveness of air, albeit not water, pollution regulations, supporters of a cleaner environment have something to cheer about. However, this leaves open whether the improved environmental outcome has been "bought" at the expense of a reduction in the rate of economic growth.
Until that larger question is addressed by scholars and policy analysts, critics of more stringent environmental regulation in India and elsewhere in the developing world are unlikely to be silenced.
You can follow Vivek Dehejia on Twitter athttp://twitter.com/vdehejia .

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); WEATHER (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%) Gore, Al; Pachauri, Rajendra K; Economic Conditions and Trends; Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change; India

ORGANIZATION: INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (84%) Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change

PERSON: AL GORE (73%) Gore, Al; Pachauri, Rajendra K

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (95%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2011



425 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; culture

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: Italy Bound

BYLINE: STEPHEN HEYMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Just in time for Italy's 150th anniversary, a flurry of new books present the country as frustrating, inscrutable and magnificent. 

 BODY:
Just in time for Italy's 150th anniversary (and a major financial crisis), a flurry of new books present the country as frustrating, inscrutable and magnificent.
"Rome" by Robert Hughes (Knopf, $35) A fascinating personal history of the Italian capital, "Rome" begins with an exegesis on the founding myth of Romulus and Remus and ends with a rant about how the city has lost its "Dolce Vita"-era glory. Hughes says Rome has been "gutted by the huge and ruthless takeover of its imagination by mass tourism." Its television is "crap," its civic experience "brutally compromised by automobile and driver." The city that wasn't built in a day (try 2,500 years) refuses to be understood in the space of "a decade or a guided bus ride."
"The Pursuit of Italy" by David Gilmour (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $33) Was Italy's 1861 unification a terrible mistake? Gilmour admits that his "quirkily subjective" book grazes unequally on different regions. Tuscany or the Veneto alone, he claims, could "rival every other country in the world in the quality of its art and the civilization of its past." But his final verdict is that Italy was "predestined to be a disappointment." History and geography, Gilmour says, "made certain countries, including France and Britain, more important than the sum of their parts. In Italy the opposite was true."
"Mamma Mia" by Beppe Severgnini (Rizzoli Ex Libris, $23) Severgnini's subject - a certain Mr. B - is the embattled Italian prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, whose taste for philandering, cronyism and forcing Angela Merkel into a game of hide-and-seek is drolly explained here for the author's "friends abroad." Berlusconi seduces Italians, Severgnini says, by behaving like them. "He prevails by complicity, not example or authority. I am like you: impulsive, intolerant, enthusiastic and impatient."
"Seeking Sicily" by John Keahey (Thomas Dunne, $28) This erudite travelogue begins in a chaotic Palermo. The author delights in scruffy trattorias and checks into the Hotel des Palmes, where Wagner finished "Parsifal." Later, he pokes around the underworld, where an anticrime activist says crackdowns are producing unexpected results: "There are a lot of people here who are more afraid of the police than the mafia." Paradox abounds all over Sicily. Keahey sums up the local attitude with a quote from that Sicilian classic "The Leopard": "If we want things to stay as they are, things will have to change."

        
Palermo Privata
        
Euro Zone | Film and Fitness in Rome
        
A Model Professor
        
Laugh Lines | Revisiting William Steig
        
Richard Prince's Library Privileges

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (91%); WRITERS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EURO ZONE (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%); POLITICS (63%); ORGANIZED CRIME (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%) Beppe Severgnini; Books; David Gilmour; Italy; JOhn Keahey; Robert Hughes; Rome; Sicily; Silvio Berlusconi; Berlusconi, Silvio; Dunne, Thomas; Gilmour, David; Merkel, Angela; Severgnini, Beppe; Books and Literature; Politics and Government; Farrar Straus & Giroux; Culture

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Farrar Straus & Giroux

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (89%); ANGELA MERKEL (65%) Berlusconi, Silvio; Dunne, Thomas; Gilmour, David; Merkel, Angela; Severgnini, Beppe

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, GA, USA (91%) GEORGIA, USA (91%) ITALY (99%); UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (75%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%) Italy

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



426 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Judge in Citigroup Mortgage Settlement Criticizes S.E.C.'s Enforcement

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Judge Jed Rakoff questions the government's longtime process in dealing with banks and whether its practices are strict enough. 

 BODY:
A federal judge overseeing a $285 million settlement between Citigroup and the Securities and Exchange Commission expressed major concerns on Wednesday about the agency's enforcement practices.
The settlement would effectively close the book on regulators' accusations that the bank deceived investors in the sale of mortgage securities. The judge, Jed S. Rakoff of the Federal District Court in Manhattan, reserved judgment on whether he would sign off on it, explaining that he would issue a written opinion at a later date.
Yet the judge made it clear during an hourlong hearing in a crowded courtroom that he had serious concerns about how the commission reached such settlements - and whether they were tough enough.
"Doesn't the S.E.C. have an interest in what the truth is?" Judge Rakoff asked, in reference to the commission's longstanding practice of not forcing a defendant to admit any wrongdoing when settling a case.
Matthew T. Martens, a senior lawyer at the S.E.C., said that the government believed that the public knew the truth about Citigroup's conduct because the government's lawsuit laid out its claims against the bank.
"Last time I checked, correct me if I'm wrong, anyone can make an allegation," said Judge Rakoff. "The mere fact that you say it's so does not make it so unless it's proved."
Underscoring the importance of the case for the agency, Robert S. Khuzami, the S.E.C.'s director of enforcement, and George S. Canellos, the head of its New York office, attended the hearing. Ever since the financial crisis, political leaders and academics have accused the S.E.C. and other government agencies of going too easy on Wall Street and turning a blind eye to excessive risk taking.
The S.E.C.'s detractors have criticized how the commission resolves enforcement actions against Wall Street firms. They view the settlements as toothless, effectively nothing more slaps on the wrist that lead to chronic violations of the securities laws.
On Wednesday, the S.E.C. responded to such criticism by announcing that it had filed 735 enforcement actions in the 12 months ending Sept. 30, the most filed in a single year. In a statement, Mary L. Schapiro, the S.E.C. chairwoman, highlighted that many of the cases were "related to the financial crisis and its aftermath."
The case against Citigroup is the third brought by the S.E.C. that accuses a bank of misleading clients about mortgage securities. Goldman and JPMorgan Chase each settled their cases last year.
Citigroup was accused of deceiving its customers by selling them $1 billion worth of risky mortgage securities that it knew would fall in value.
The $285 million settlement with the government encompasses $160 million in disgorged profits, a $95 million penalty and $30 million in interest.
A federal judge must approve all S.E.C. settlements, and, historically, most have rubber stamped them.
But not Judge Rakoff. In September 2009, the 68-year-old jurist scrapped a proposed $33 million settlement between the S.E.C. and Bank of America over the bank's acquisition of Merrill Lynch. He called the pact a sweetheart deal done "at the expense, not only of the shareholders, but also of the truth." The judge later approved a $150 million settlement.
Other judges have recently shown hostility toward the agency's settlement practices. Last year Judge Ellen S. Huvelle in Washington refused to approve a $75 million agreement between the commission and Citigroup over the value of its subprime mortgages until the parties tweaked the deal's terms.
Judge Rakoff first made his skepticism over the S.E.C.'s pact with Citigroup known last month when he asked the two sides to answer nine pointed questions about why he should approve it.
On Wednesday, the judge homed in on the issue of banks who settle with the S.E.C. and pledge to not violate the securities laws, yet repeatedly do so. Why then, Judge Rakoff asked, had the commission not brought any contempt charges against large financial firms in the past 10 years?
Mr. Martens, the S.E.C. lawyer, said that the agency felt that there were better and more appropriate ways to deal with chronic misconduct. The S.E.C. has said that striking settlements is often preferable to a costly and protracted lawsuit that it might lose.
Judge Rakoff called the contempt power - a judge's ability to punish a party for disobeying a court order - "the backbone of the judiciary." He questioned whether the S.E.C. was really serious about ever seeking an injunction against repeat offenders.
"It's just for show," Judge Rakoff said.
"We're not saying that we will never use injunctive relief," said the S.E.C. lawyer.
"Hope springs eternal," the judge replied.
The S.E.C.'s current enforcement action against Citigroup is at least the fifth time that the commission has reached a settlement with the bank related to civil fraud accusations.
Citigroup's main brokerage subsidiary, its predecessors or its parent company has agreed to not violate the antifraud laws in prior settlements with the S.E.C. dating as far back as April 2000.
A Citigroup spokesman said that "there is no basis for any assertion that Citi has violated the terms" of any agreement with the S.E.C.
After being slow to enter the subprime mortgage loan packaging business, Citigroup plunged headfirst just as the housing boom neared its peak. When the market melted down, Citigroup was saddled with more than $30 billion in losses and ultimately needed two federal bailouts.
The bank also found itself in the crosshairs of securities regulators and Congressional investigators, as well as the target of large private investor lawsuits.
It is unclear whether Judge Rakoff will allow the bank to resolve this case under its current settlement terms. On Wednesday, the judge criticized the $95 million penalty against the bank, pointing out that the S.E.C. estimated investors' total losses on the mortgage deal at $700 million.
"So the net effect of this is that you're only returning a small fraction of what the investors lost, yes?" Judge Rakoff asked the S.E.C. lawyer.
Later in the hearing, the judge teased Brad S. Karp, the lawyer for Citigroup, about the penalty amount.
"I won't be cute and ask what percentage of Citigroup's net worth is $95 million because I do not have a microscope with me."

        
Citigroup and the S.E.C. Defend Their Settlement
        
Citigroup Deal to Go to Judge Critical of S.E.C. Practices

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); JUDGES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (59%) Citigroup; Collateralized Debt Obligations (Des);; Jed S. Rakoff; Judge Jed Rakoff; Mary L. Schapiro; Mortgage-Backed Securities; Securities and Exchange Commission; Rakoff, Jed S; Banking and Financial Institutions; Citigroup Inc; Manhattan (NYC); Citigroup Inc|C|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (97%) Citigroup Inc; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%) Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (58%) Rakoff, Jed S

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



427 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Opinion Report: Penn State

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page. 

 BODY:
The Obama administration wants a quick settlement over mortgage abuses that would let the banks off easy. It would be better for government officials to develop the strongest possible legal case by fully investigating the banks' conduct during the bubble and since the crash, and only then talk settlement.
When Arab League foreign ministers meet on Saturday, they should eject Syria and urge the United Nations Security Council to impose international sanctions against President Bashar al-Assad's regime.
Scientists have found evidence, embedded in the rib of a mastodon, suggesting that humans first appeared in North America 800 years earlier than previously thought.
The Penn State sex-abuse scandal grew out of a culture that seems to protect sports at all costs.
The Penn State scandal also finds its way into a Washington Post editorial.
No one at Penn State seems to have thought about the victims, The Post says. In particular, no one seems to have tried to identify the 2002 abuse victim, or to consider that he might need treatment and protection.

        
Opinion Report: Unemployment Benefits and Pensions
        
Opinion Report: Fixing Tickets and Punishing the Poor

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); SCANDALS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); 2011 PENN STATE SEX ABUSE SCANDAL (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); SEX SCANDALS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (55%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%) opinion report; Pennsylvania State University; Washington Post

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (94%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%) Pennsylvania State University

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); SYRIA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



428 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: When Ozone Drops, Farm Workers Step Up the Pace

BYLINE: DYLAN WALSH


HIGHLIGHT: When ozone levels declined by 10 parts per billion - roughly the level of tightening proposed by the E.P.A. - productivity climbed 4.2 percent among workers in a study, researchers say. 

 BODY:
Opponents of stricter regulation of air pollution typically argue that jobs would be lost if the federal government tightened limits on industrial emissions of ozone. A new study presents a counterpoint: lower ozone levels seem to increase worker productivity.
"We wanted to flip the idea of regulation on its head and view it from another perspective," said Matthew J. Neidell, an economist and a co-author of the study, published as a working paper by the nonpartisan National Bureau of Economic Research. "Maybe pollution regulation can help jobs and economic growth."
The issue came to the fore in early September, when President Obama announced that he would not support a proposal by the Environmental Protection Agency to tighten the federal ozone standard because it would pose too heavy a burden on businesses. The decision stunned environmentalists and public health advocates but was welcomed by industry and Congressional Republicans.
"We cannot afford any sort of costly regulation that would destroy jobs and hamstring growth," said the House majority leader, Eric Cantor, Republican of Virginia.
Policy makers routinely counter that regulating ozone smog yields abundant health benefits like reduced hospitalizations and mortality rates. But Dr. Neidell, an associate professor at Columbia University's School of Public Health, set out to investigate whether lower air pollution might also affect job performance.

It took five years - including one dead end monitoring the performance of the Los Angeles Dodgers relative to ozone levels - for him to settle on a suitable testing environment: a farm in California's Central Valley.
With his co-author, Joshua S. Graff Zivin, he used the farm's electronic payroll system to collect eight months of productivity data on 1,600 workers over two growing seasons. Because the workers are paid by piece rate on a variety of crops, there is an incentive for them to work hard. Figures on their daily harvest were related to hourly fluctuations in ozone, as measured by three nearby air quality monitors.
The study found that on average, when ozone levels declined by 10 parts per billion -- approximately the level of tightening proposed by the E.P.A. -- worker productivity climbed 4.2 percent. Extrapolating from that result, an across-the-board reduction of 10 parts per billion might yield a $1.1 billion annual increase in economic value in the nation's agricultural sector.
The authors conclude that regulation of pollution can be considered an investment in human capital, "and thus a tool for promoting, rather than retarding, economic growth."
Dr. Neidell was quick to point out that these results cannot be generalized from agricultural work to the full spectrum of outdoor workers, who make up 11.8 percent of the country's labor force. And agricultural workers account for less than 2 percent of the nation's workers, so the findings may not dramatically alter the cost-benefit calculations of ozone regulation.
Still, the study offers a new measure of pollution costs absent from the policy-making calculus.
And the finding could prove more significant for developing nations. "In other countries, where agriculture is still a large segment of the economy, the productivity story holds much more weight," Dr. Neidell said.
The article, which first appeared in April, is currently being revised. 
The next step is to find a similar case study on the productivity effects of microscopic particulate matter, one of the most common pollutants alongside ozone, Dr. Neidell said. Given that physiological responses to particulate matter are similar to those for ozone, "there is good reason to believe it will have similar effects," he said. 
Particulate matter also drifts indoors, whereas ozone does not, which raises new questions. "If I'm sitting at my desk working at my computer" when outdoor pollution is heavy, he said, "does my productivity change?" 

        
On Our Radar: Gas Pipeline Links Russia and Germany
        
Smog in a Rural Valley? Mystery Is Solved
        
Clean Air, Mortality and Cost: A Thought Exercise
        
E.P.A. Limits Coal-Plant Emissions
        
A Critique of a Texas Representative's Air Quality Claims

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); FARM LABOR (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); AIR POLLUTION (90%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); AIR QUALITY (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); AIR QUALITY INSTRUMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); AIR QUALITY MONITORING (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); SMOG (78%); TRENDS (77%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); BASEBALL (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (50%) Agriculture; Air Pollution; Environmental Protection Agency; National Bureau of Economic Research; Ozone; public health; worker productivity; Obama, Barack; Agriculture and Farming; Economic Conditions and Trends; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Labor and Jobs; Productivity; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; California; Central Valley (Calif); Business; Living; Science

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (54%) Environmental Protection Agency; National Bureau of Economic Research

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ERIC CANTOR (52%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) California; Central Valley (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



429 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Five Things to Watch at Michigan Debate

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: On everyone's mind is whether the candidates will engage in a discussion about the sexual harassment allegations swirling around Herman Cain. 

 BODY:
Debate season is back.
After a hiatus of several weeks, the Republican candidates for president will gather in Michigan on Wednesday night for a 90-minute exchange meant to focus on economic issues.
The debate, to be broadcast nationally by CNBC, will be followed three days later by a gathering in South Carolina, where another face-off is supposed to keep the candidates talking about foreign policy questions.
On everyone's mind, though, is how much the candidates might -- or might not -- engage in a discussion about the sexual harassment allegations swirling around Herman Cain, the former pizza restaurant executive.
So far, most of the candidates have stayed silent as the scandal has grown in recent days. But Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, weighed in a little bit on Tuesday, calling the allegations "serious." And the debate moderators have made it clear that no subject is off the table.
Either way, Wednesday night's debate is likely to offer another critical stage moment for many of the candidates. With Mr. Cain's scandal consuming a tremendous amount -- if not all -- of the recent media attention, the debate will be the first opportunity in almost two weeks for any of his rivals to break through with voters.
Here are five things to watch for as the night unfolds.
1. The Cain Accusations. It is usually hard to imagine that the biggest political story of the last two weeks wouldn't even be mentioned during a presidential debate. But that could happen if Mr. Cain's rivals decide that the subject is too hot to touch -- and offers no upside.
Some people are looking to Michele Bachmann, the Minnesota congresswoman and the only woman in the contest, to offer an assessment of the controversy. But her campaign has so far declined requests to comment, so it's unclear why she would change her mind.
That would leave it up to the moderators to raise the issue, and to try to prod the other candidates into saying something about it. That could happen despite the intended focus on economics. But if it doesn't, the 90-minute debate would pass with an extra elephant in the room.
2. The Mitt Romney Pile-On. Mr. Romney's connection to Michigan -- and the car industry in Detroit -- is a "good news, bad news" story for his campaign. And he's likely to be asked about all of it, by either the debate's moderators or his rivals, who are all too eager to find the soft spots in his campaign armor.
On the positive side, Mr. Romney has a longstanding connection to the state, where his father was once governor. And his victory in the state's 2008 Republican presidential primary was a wake-up call to Senator John McCain of Arizona (who nonetheless went on to win the nomination).
On the negative side, Mr. Romney has been the target of attacks from Democrats and his Republican rivals after he suggested that the auto industry should not be bailed out in 2009. His comments in a New York Times opinion piece have been flung back at him repeatedly -- and will no doubt be raised again Wednesday night.
3. The Obama Pile-On. The stock market plunged several hundred points on Wednesday, the result of news related to the European debt crisis. But the Republican candidates will no doubt use it as another piece of evidence of President Obama's poor handling of the economy.
One casualty of the saga surrounding Mr. Cain is Republican efforts to bash Mr. Obama and his economic record. Those attacks have gone largely unnoticed during the media frenzy over sexual harassment.
But the Republican candidates are no doubt itching to rev up the attack machine again. And a nationally televised debate is a perfect opportunity.
4. Perry's Performance. After saying that he might choose to skip any more debates, Rick Perry has now committed to at least five more. But the underlying reason for his hesitance is still there: he's not very good at them.
Mr. Perry's performances in several debates this summer were largely responsible for most of the troubles in his campaign, which now regularly polls near the bottom of the pack. At times he was too cool. At times he was too hot. If he wants to recover politically, he'll have to be just right in Michigan.
A good performance could also help to amplify the message he is driving with expensive campaign commercials in Iowa. The largely biographical ads are trying to reintroduce Mr. Perry to voters as someone who knows how to manage and will cut spending and create jobs.
5. Where's Huntsman? Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former governor of Utah, has struggled to gain any traction in the 2012 contest. His poll numbers are so small that they have threatened his participation in some of the debates.
But he's also stepped up his attacks on his rivals, running tough ads about Mr. Romney's tendency to flip-flop. And he gave a well-received performance on Sunday talk shows over the weekend, with some people saying that he should get a second look.
He'll get that in Michigan, but will need to seize the limelight without coming across as goofy, as he has at some of the debates. His attempts at humor have usually fallen flat, and without them, he has often faded into the background behind the testy exchanges of his more outgoing rivals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); RESTAURANTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%) The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); HERMAN CAIN (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



430 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: Michigan Governor Warns Candidates on Auto Bailout

BYLINE: JEFF ZELENY


HIGHLIGHT: Washington's bailout of the auto industry is credited with helping more than just the automakers. 

 BODY:
ROCHESTER, Mich. - Gov. Rick Snyder, a Republican, offered a word of warning on Wednesday to his party's field of presidential candidates: don't spend time trashing the bailout of the auto industry.
"I think it's an overblown discussion. Why spend your time living in the past?" Mr. Snyder told The New York Times. "Why shouldn't we be asking these candidates to tell us how are we going to create jobs going forward?"
The Republican presidential candidates, who are gathering here for a debate Wednesday evening, have all expressed their opposition to President Obama's decision to offer a bailout to two of the Big Three automakers. They have argued that it was a prime example of inappropriate government intervention.
Mr. Snyder, who was elected last year as part of the Republican Party's sweep of several state capitals and legislatures across the country, said in an interview that he believed that the bailout was "appropriate." If the federal government had not intervened, he said, the financial causalities would have extended far beyond Chrysler and General Motors to the supply chain that is the economic lifeblood of the industrial Midwest.
"I would have had some differences on how they did it, but I'm not going to second-guess it," Mr. Snyder said. "The more important thing is the results. And the auto industry is doing very well today."
His comments are deeply at odds with the sentiment of the Republican presidential candidates and offer an early window into the complicated politics that will play out over the next year as President Obama argues that his decision to bail out the automakers has helped workers and played a key role in trying to turn the economy around.
"Don't waste all your energy fighting the auto bailout of the past - let's move forward," said Mr. Snyder, a businessman who was elected governor last year as an unconventional candidate without a long history in politics.
Mr. Snyder said he had not yet decided whether to endorse a Republican candidate, citing disappointment in the discourse in the presidential campaign - and across Washington.
"The average citizen is getting to the point of being absolutely fed up with divisiveness," Mr. Snyder said. "They're looking for people that are going to solve problems."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); JOB CREATION (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (59%); SUBPRIME LENDING (59%) Obama, Barack; Snyder, Richard Dale; Automobiles; Debates (Political); Labor and Jobs; Presidential Election of 2012; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Chrysler LLC; General Motors; Republican Party; Michigan; General Motors|GM|NYSE; The Caucus

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Chrysler LLC; General Motors; Republican Party

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%) General Motors; GM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: RICK SNYDER (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%) Obama, Barack; Snyder, Richard Dale

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Michigan

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



431 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Moderator for a Day

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: Questions from readers for tonight's Republican debate. 

 BODY:
Earlier on I listed dozens of questions I'd love to hear asked during tonight's Republican debate at Oakland University in Michigan. I also invited readers to chime in. Here's a selection from the comments section. (N.B.: Some of these have been trimmed or edited for clarity. Links are to the original comments.)
The Economy
The Congressional Budget Office has projected that, with current benefit levels (and prior to Obamacare), federal spending will double relative to GDP within a few decades. How do you propose to continue the same level of benefits and, if you do, how high will you raise everyone's taxes?Is there any provision of President Obama's American Jobs Act that you support? Can the federal government do anything proactively to spur hiring, or is it just a matter of budget cuts and less regulation?Republicans often claim that cutting domestic spending will create jobs. But they also claim that cutting defense spending will cause job losses and unemployment. Please explain this seeming contradiction.The debt ceiling will again be reached in 2013. Assuming a balanced budget amendment does not pass Congress, how will you proceed?
Domestic Policy
You can literally see Chrysler HQ from Oakland University. Almost all of you were opposed to any government help to the US auto industry. Please explain.All of you have pledged to repeal the reforms to the American healthcare system that President Obama spent over a year of his presidency passing. Exactly what do you intend to replace them with? Do you intend to go back to the old system?How do you reconcile your opposition to illegal immigrants coming here for low wage work, with the free market philosophy of the free movement of labor and capital?Do you believe that a fertilized egg is a human being and thus eligible for protection under the law? If not, why not?Do you agree that corporations should have the same rights as people? Is a corporation a "person"? If so, why? If not, why not?
Governance
Mr. Obama was elected with a clear majority. He ran on a platform that included Health Care reform. But the Republicans in Congress have done everything in their power to block the president's initiatives. Does the opposition have an obligation to respect the will of the people and let the president implement much of the platform he or she runs on? How will you govern if the opposition treats you and your administration the way the Republicans have treated Mr. Obama?Do you believe in the separation of church and state? To what extent will your personal religious viewpoints inform your administration's agenda?You all spend a lot of time and energy raising money for your campaigns, the vast majority of which comes from corporations and very wealthy individuals. Please explain why you think those entities want to contribute to your candidacy. Do you believe that contributors expect a return on their investment?
Science and the Environment
With the exception of Jon Huntsman, all of you have proclaimed that human activity is not the cause of global warming. If there were a climate summit during your presidency, would the US decline to send a delegation? Would you address global climate change in any way?Mitt Romney once said "The science class is where to teach evolution If we're going to talk about more philosophical matters, like why it was created, and was there an intelligent designer behind it, that's for the religion class or philosophy class or social studies class." Do you agree with this statement? [Note: The commenter attributed this comment to Newt Gingrich. It was Mitt Romney who suggested this distinction.]Without environmental regulations, industrial companies that produce hazardous waste could lower their costs by dumping waste into public waterways or discharging it into the air. Do you consider that acceptable? If not, how would you prevent it from happening given that you advocate abolishing the EPA? 

        
Questions for the Candidates
        
Readers Respond: Jobless Benefits
        
A High-Tech Lynching by Harry Belafonte
        
Readers Respond: Marriage Equality
        
Amazing Denials

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); DEBT CEILING (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (75%); US AMERICAN JOBS ACT OF 2011 (74%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); HEALTH CARE (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (63%); CHURCH & STATE (60%); RELIGION (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%) Debates (Political); Presidential Election of 2012; Readers respond; Primaries and Caucuses

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011



432 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Moderator for a Day

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: Questions from readers for tonight's Republican debate. 

 BODY:
Earlier on I listed dozens of questions I'd love to hear asked during tonight's Republican debate at Oakland University in Michigan. I also invited readers to chime in. Here's a selection from the comments section. (N.B.: Some of these have been trimmed or edited for clarity. Links are to the original comments.)
The Economy
The Congressional Budget Office has projected that, with current benefit levels (and prior to Obamacare), federal spending will double relative to GDP within a few decades. How do you propose to continue the same level of benefits and, if you do, how high will you raise everyone's taxes?Is there any provision of President Obama's American Jobs Act that you support? Can the federal government do anything proactively to spur hiring, or is it just a matter of budget cuts and less regulation?Republicans often claim that cutting domestic spending will create jobs. But they also claim that cutting defense spending will cause job losses and unemployment. Please explain this seeming contradiction.The debt ceiling will again be reached in 2013. Assuming a balanced budget amendment does not pass Congress, how will you proceed?
Domestic Policy
You can literally see Chrysler HQ from Oakland University. Almost all of you were opposed to any government help to the US auto industry. Please explain.All of you have pledged to repeal the reforms to the American healthcare system that President Obama spent over a year of his presidency passing. Exactly what do you intend to replace them with? Do you intend to go back to the old system?How do you reconcile your opposition to illegal immigrants coming here for low wage work, with the free market philosophy of the free movement of labor and capital?Do you believe that a fertilized egg is a human being and thus eligible for protection under the law? If not, why not?Do you agree that corporations should have the same rights as people? Is a corporation a "person"? If so, why? If not, why not?
Governance
Mr. Obama was elected with a clear majority. He ran on a platform that included Health Care reform. But the Republicans in Congress have done everything in their power to block the president's initiatives. Does the opposition have an obligation to respect the will of the people and let the president implement much of the platform he or she runs on? How will you govern if the opposition treats you and your administration the way the Republicans have treated Mr. Obama?Do you believe in the separation of church and state? To what extent will your personal religious viewpoints inform your administration's agenda?You all spend a lot of time and energy raising money for your campaigns, the vast majority of which comes from corporations and very wealthy individuals. Please explain why you think those entities want to contribute to your candidacy. Do you believe that contributors expect a return on their investment?
Science and the Environment
With the exception of Jon Huntsman, all of you have proclaimed that human activity is not the cause of global warming. If there were a climate summit during your presidency, would the US decline to send a delegation? Would you address global climate change in any way?Mitt Romney once said "The science class is where to teach evolution If we're going to talk about more philosophical matters, like why it was created, and was there an intelligent designer behind it, that's for the religion class or philosophy class or social studies class." Do you agree with this statement? [Note: The commenter attributed this comment to Newt Gingrich. It was Mitt Romney who suggested this distinction.]Without environmental regulations, industrial companies that produce hazardous waste could lower their costs by dumping waste into public waterways or discharging it into the air. Do you consider that acceptable? If not, how would you prevent it from happening given that you advocate abolishing the EPA? 

        
Questions for the Candidates
        
Readers Respond: Jobless Benefits
        
A High-Tech Lynching by Harry Belafonte
        
Readers Respond: Marriage Equality
        
Amazing Denials

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); DEBT CEILING (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (75%); US AMERICAN JOBS ACT OF 2011 (74%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); HEALTH CARE (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (63%); CHURCH & STATE (60%); RELIGION (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%) Debates (Political); Presidential Election of 2012; Readers respond; Primaries and Caucuses

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011



433 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Michigan Debate Fact Check

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Times reporters examine statements from candidates in the Republican field on the economy during the debate in Rochester, Mich. 

 BODY:
Regulation and Housing Crisis
There is a basic problem with the argument, made by several candidates, that the government forced mortgage lenders to make bad loans: most subprime loans were made by companies that were to any kind of federal regulation.
Furthermore, there was no need for force. Financial companies jumped into the market. The major investment banks lined up to purchase subprime lenders, the major retail banks created subprime-lending divisions and a generation of upstart subprime lenders like Ameriquest and Countrywide were briefly celebrated as rising stars of American business.
No executive of a major mortgage company said at the time that the government was forcing him to make subprime loans. The executives said they did it because they thought they'd make money. And even now, after the crash, with all the temptation to point figures, it is awfully hard to find a mortgage executive who echoes the argument of the Republican candidates.
Studies of the financial crisis do assign a significant measure of responsibility to the government, but mostly for its failure to regulate these lenders.
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-backed mortgage finance companies, did provide financing for large numbers of subprime loans, mostly by purchasing mortgage securities for their investment portfolios. But the historical recordshows that they came late, diving into subprime lending because private companies were stealing their business and profits. As such, most experts have concluded that Fannie and Freddie helped expand the bubble but did not create it.
- 
Regulation and Business 
Herman Cain suggested that the chief problem holding back companies was regulatory uncertainty. Other candidates, including Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, have made similar claims about regulatory burdens.
But if you look at surveys of small businesses conducted by the National Federation of Independent Business, a plurality of companies consistently say that the "single biggest problem" they face is low sales, not red tape or taxes.
The Labor Department's data on mass layoffs echo this finding. For the last three quarters, "governmental regulations/intervention" have accounted for fewer than 1 percent of layoffs.
As for hiring, one reason to believe that lack of consumer demand, rather than regulations, is discouraging employers is that businesses are not even fully using their existing staff and equipment. If regulatory requirements were so burdensome but the demand was there, you'd think that companies would at least step up their use of what they already had on hand.
But the average length of the workweek is still shorter than it was before the recession began, and has been basically flat since the start of this year.
Additionally, as pointed out by Jan Eberly, assistant Treasury secretary, companies are letting their industrial resources lie fallow rather than running everything at full capacity.
"The share of total potential industrial output in use remains 3 percent below its long-run average," she writes. "Low-capacity utilization is inconsistent with concerns about future regulatory risk, but aligns with weak demand holding back current production."
- 
Who Pays Federal Taxes
Representative Michele Bachmann points out that 47 percent of Americans pay no federal income taxes. She is unusual among the candidates in using such specific numbers, and once again, the number itself is correct.
But many of those same people are subject to federal payroll taxes, meaning that Uncle Sam still gets a portion of their paycheck -- not to mention the fact that many pay state and local taxes.
The Times's David Leonhardt, analyzing data from the Congressional Budget Office, that "at most, 10 percent of all households pay no net federal taxes."
It's also important to mention the primary reason people don't pay taxes: poverty.
- 
Paul on Inflation
In one of his standard attacks on the Federal Reserve, Representative Ron Paul said the recent increase in the money supply "spells inflation" in the near future.
So far, at least, markets do not agree.
Analyzing survey responses and market data on Treasuries and other securities, the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland estimates that the public expects the inflation rate to be less than 2 percent on average over the next decade.
- 
Corporate Tax Rate
Mrs. Bachmann described the United States' corporate tax rate as the second-highest in the world. That's true, at least among the major economies. Only Japan has a higher top tax rate for corporations.
But it's also true that a bevy of loopholes significantly reduces the actual burden. As a result, the share of income that American corporations pay in taxes sits right about on the average for large economies. And a 2008 study by the Congressional Budget Office found that 55 percent of corporations had paid no taxes in at least one year of a seven-year study period.
It should be noted that many tax experts believe that it would make more sense -- and help the economy -- to lower the stated tax rates for corporations and at the same time reduce the number of exemptions, collecting the same amount of revenue in a more equitable manner.
- 

        
Las Vegas Debate Fact Check
        
Fact Checking the Republican Debate on the Economy
        
Fact Checking the G.O.P. Debate in Orlando
        
Fact Check: Social Security, Health Care and More
        
Fact Check: The Republican Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SUBPRIME LENDING (94%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (79%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); RETAIL BANKING (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (62%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (61%) fact-check; Appelbaum, Binyamin; Bachmann, Michele M; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick; Rampell, Catherine; Corporate Taxes; Mortgages; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; Michigan; Elections

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (78%); MICHELE BACHMANN (66%); HERMAN CAIN (52%) Appelbaum, Binyamin; Bachmann, Michele M; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick; Rampell, Catherine

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Michigan

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



434 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: N.B.A. Negotiations Resume, With Possible Breakthrough

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK

 BODY:
Pushing aside ultimatums, threats and caustic rhetoric, N.B.A. owners and players resumed labor talks Wednesday on what was shaping up as the day of reckoning in the four-month lockout.
Commissioner David Stern had set 5 p.m. as the deadline for the union to accept the league's standing proposal, or have it replaced with a much worse deal. The players rejected the offer on Tuesday, but signaled a willingness to accept the league's desired 50-50 split of revenue.
The gesture got the parties back to the table, rendering the deadline moot, at least for the moment. 
The meeting began at 1 p.m. at a Manhattan hotel, with small negotiating parties on each side, and lasted past midnight. Stern was joined by the deputy commissioner Adam Silver; the San Antonio Spurs' owner, Peter Holt, who heads the league's labor-relations committee; and the league's top two lawyers, Rick Buchanan and Dan Rube.
Representing the union were the executive director Billy Hunter, the player president Derek Fisher, the outside counsel Jeffrey Kessler, the lawyer Ron Klempner and the union's outside economist, Kevin M. Murphy.
The union's offer to accept the 50-50 split was dependent on the owners compromising on some proposed free-agency restrictions. The league wants to ban luxury-tax-paying teams from executing sign-and-trade deals and from using the full midlevel exception, worth $5 million. The union fears that those rules, combined with a more punitive tax, would strangle the free-agent market.
The players' offer to accept a 50 percent share -- down from 57 percent last season -- represents a $280 million annual pay cut, and a projected $3 billion giveback over the course of a 10-year labor deal. The union is hoping that such a financial sacrifice will be enough to induce the owners to make a deal.
Although a faction of strident owners, most of them from small markets, has been dictating the N.B.A.'s position, Stern had the authority Wednesday to make the necessary compromises, according to a person involved in the talks on the league side. ''David is going to do what needs to be done,'' the person said.
If the owners and players can find a compromise position on the free-agency rules and a few others, a deal is in reach. If the latest talks collapsed and Stern pulled the offer from the table, the 2011-12 season would be in severe jeopardy.
A disillusioned faction of players and agents has already been collecting signatures on a petition to dissolve the union, an extreme measure that would shift the battle to the courts and probably prolong the standoff.
So far, a month of games has been canceled. Based on the league's need for a four-week preparation period -- to complete the deal, and then conduct free agency and training camps -- games in the first two weeks of December are already threatened.
Although some difficult issues remained Wednesday, the gap between the owners and players was minuscule compared to where it was 21 months ago. The owners once proposed an immediate $800 million rollback in salaries, a reduction of the players' revenue share to 37 percent, a hard salary cap and the elimination of guaranteed contracts -- demands that guaranteed a lengthy lockout.
Gradually, over the course of 21 bargaining sessions and 136 hours, the gap began to shrink. Most of the progress came in October, when the sides met 11 times.
Along the way, the owners dropped their demands for a hard cap, substituting a more punitive luxury tax, and abandoned the rollback in salaries and the elimination of guaranteed deals. After vowing they would never raise their offer beyond 47 percent, the owners finally proposed a 50-50 revenue split.
The players gradually moved from 57 percent to 54, then 53 and 52.5, before indicating a possible agreement at 50.
Two tactical moves, one from each side, brought everyone back to the table on Wednesday.
After talks broke down early Sunday, Stern pushed the players into a corner with an ultimatum: take the 50-50 deal, with all of its restrictions, by 5 p.m. Wednesday, or the owners would revert to a 47 percent offer, with a hard cap and salary rollbacks.
The players put the burden back on the owners on Tuesday by announcing they would take the 50-50 deal, provided the owners made the other concessions.
Rather than wait for the 5 p.m. deadline, Stern agreed to call another bargaining session.
If the parties got a handshake agreement Wednesday, the next challenge would be selling the deal to their constituencies.
The hard-line owners -- including Charlotte's Michael Jordan, Portland's Paul Allen and Cleveland's Dan Gilbert -- opposed ever raising their offer beyond 47 percent and remained determined to gain as many restrictions as possible on payrolls and free agency.
It takes a simple majority -- 16 of the 30 teams -- to approve a new collective bargaining agreement. Stern probably has enough votes, but he would prefer an overwhelming majority given the stakes and the implications of a 10-year deal.
On the players' side, a number of influential agents have been highly critical of the union's negotiating stance, believing that the organization gave up too much, too soon. They demanded that the union not drop its offer below 52 percent.
If the disenchanted agents and their players are upset with the terms of the deal, they could attempt to defeat it in the ratification vote and intensify the decertification effort.
REBOUNDS
Jeffrey Kessler, the chief negotiator for the players union, apologized Wednesday for making a racially charged comment about N.B.A. owners. Discussing the taut labor negotiations between the league and the union, he had told The Washington Post that the league was treating the players ''like plantation workers.''
''The comments that I made to The Washington Post Monday night took place quite late, at the end of a lengthy interview,'' Kessler said Wednesday. ''And looking back, I believe that the words I used were inappropriate, and I am going to communicate my apologies for that to the N.B.A. and to the commissioner, who I will call and indicate that I apologize for that choice of words. The important thing for the parties is to get together and try to make a deal, and we have to put aside any other types of distractions.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Derrick Williams of the Timberwolves, Brandon Jennings of the Bucks and Greivis Vasquez of the Grizzlies during halftime of an exhibition game Wednesday in Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHY WILLENS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOCKOUTS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LAWYERS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); PETITIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: MEMPHIS GRIZZLIES (59%); VANCOUVER GRIZZLIES (59%); MILWAUKEE BUCKS (59%); MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES (59%); SAN ANTONIO SPURS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (71%) TEXAS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



435 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Oil Imports Poised to Pass Level of U.S.

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON -- The European Union is expected to overtake the United States as the world's biggest oil importer in 2015, the International Energy Agency said Wednesday in its annual report. 
Oil imports to the United States are expected to decline significantly over the coming years because of new efficiency standards for cars and trucks and an increase in domestic oil and natural gas production, said Fatih Birol, chief economist of the agency.
By 2020, China should overtake the European Union to become the world's biggest importer of oil, according to the Paris-based agency, which acts as a policy adviser to governments.
''The U.S. would be less and less vulnerable to oil price shocks,'' Mr. Birol said at a news conference in London. ''But increasing reliance on oil imports elsewhere heightens concerns about the cost of imports and supply security.''
The average crude oil import price is expected to reach $120 a barrel in 2035 based on last year's dollar value, the report titled World Energy Outlook 2011 predicted. Demand for oil should ease in the short term because of slower economic growth worldwide and supply should recover as Libyan production picks up again, the agency said, but the oil price will continue to rise in the long term because of growing demand from China and India.
Oil-importing nations will increasingly rely on a small number of producing nations, the agency said. Oil production is expected to grow mainly in Iraq, Saudi Arabia and Brazil. More than 90 percent of growth will come from the Middle East and Africa, the agency said.
Greater dependence on oil imports in Asia, where demand is rising because more people are buying cars, could raise concerns about the reliability of oil supply. Much of world oil supplies are transported via vulnerable routes in the Gulf, the Malacca Straits and elsewhere, the energy agency said.
The agency said it was unclear whether production from the Middle East and North Africa would actually grow as expected because some nations, including Libya, might find it difficult to find the necessary investment in exploration and production.
''After the Arab Spring there might be different priorities,'' Mr. Birol said. ''If they were investing a third less, then 2015 oil prices may go up to $150 per barrel.''
Global oil demand is expected to rise to 99 million barrels a day in 2035 from 87 million barrels a day last year, mainly because of a growing transport sector in China and other faster-growing economies, the agency said.
The agency also urged governments to agree soon on legally binding limits on greenhouse gas emissions so that investment in clean-energy technologies can increase by 2017, making it possible to meet the goal of limiting the average rise in global temperatures to two degrees centigrade.
''We cannot afford to delay further action to tackle climate change,'' the agency said in the report. ''For every $1 of investment avoided in the power sector before 2020, an additional $4.30 would need to be spent after 2020 to compensate for the increased emissions.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (96%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); IMPORT PRICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); AFRICA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); IRAQ (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



436 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Judge in Citigroup Mortgage Settlement Criticizes S.E.C.'s Enforcement

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN; Edward Wyatt and Eric Dash contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A federal judge overseeing a $285 million settlement between Citigroup and the Securities and Exchange Commission expressed major concerns on Wednesday about the agency's enforcement practices.
The settlement would effectively close the book on regulators' accusations that the bank deceived investors in the sale of mortgage securities. The judge, Jed S. Rakoff of the Federal District Court in Manhattan, reserved judgment on whether he would sign off on it, explaining that he would issue a written opinion at a later date.
Yet the judge made it clear during an hourlong hearing in a crowded courtroom that he had serious concerns about how the commission reached such settlements - and whether they were tough enough. 
''Doesn't the S.E.C. have an interest in what the truth is?'' Judge Rakoff asked, in reference to the commission's longstanding practice of not forcing a defendant to admit any wrongdoing when settling a case.
Matthew T. Martens, a senior lawyer at the S.E.C., said that the government believed that the public knew the truth about Citigroup's conduct because the government's lawsuit laid out its claims against the bank.
''Last time I checked, correct me if I'm wrong, anyone can make an allegation,'' said Judge Rakoff. ''The mere fact that you say it's so does not make it so unless it's proved.''
Underscoring the importance of the case for the agency, Robert S. Khuzami, the S.E.C.'s director of enforcement, and George S. Canellos, the head of its New York office, attended the hearing. Ever since the financial crisis, political leaders and academics have accused the S.E.C. and other government agencies of going too easy on Wall Street and turning a blind eye to excessive risk taking.
The S.E.C.'s detractors have criticized how the commission resolves enforcement actions against Wall Street firms. They view the settlements as toothless, effectively nothing more slaps on the wrist that lead to chronic violations of the securities laws.
On Wednesday, the S.E.C. responded to such criticism by announcing that it had filed 735 enforcement actions in the 12 months ending Sept. 30, the most filed in a single year. In a statement, Mary L. Schapiro, the S.E.C. chairwoman, highlighted that many of the cases were ''related to the financial crisis and its aftermath.''
The case against Citigroup is the third brought by the S.E.C. that accuses a bank of misleading clients about mortgage securities. Goldman and JPMorgan Chase each settled their cases last year.
Citigroup was accused of deceiving its customers by selling them $1 billion worth of risky mortgage securities that it knew would fall in value.
The $285 million settlement with the government encompasses $160 million in disgorged profits, a $95 million penalty and $30 million in interest.
A federal judge must approve all S.E.C. settlements, and, historically, most have rubber stamped them.
But not Judge Rakoff. In September 2009, the 68-year-old jurist scrapped a proposed $33 million settlement between the S.E.C. and Bank of America over the bank's acquisition of Merrill Lynch. He called the pact a sweetheart deal done ''at the expense, not only of the shareholders, but also of the truth.'' The judge later approved a $150 million settlement.
Other judges have recently shown hostility toward the agency's settlement practices. Last year Judge Ellen S. Huvelle in Washington refused to approve a $75 million agreement between the commission and Citigroup over the value of its subprime mortgages until the parties tweaked the deal's terms.
Judge Rakoff first made his skepticism over the S.E.C.'s pact with Citigroup known last month when he asked the two sides to answer nine pointed questions about why he should approve it.
On Wednesday, the judge homed in on the issue of banks who settle with the S.E.C. and pledge to not violate the securities laws, yet repeatedly do so. Why then, Judge Rakoff asked, had the commission not brought any contempt charges against large financial firms in the past 10 years?
Mr. Martens, the S.E.C. lawyer, said that the agency felt that there were better and more appropriate ways to deal with chronic misconduct. The S.E.C. has said that striking settlements is often preferable to a costly and protracted lawsuit that it might lose.
Judge Rakoff called the contempt power - a judge's ability to punish a party for disobeying a court order - ''the backbone of the judiciary.'' He questioned whether the S.E.C. was really serious about ever seeking an injunction against repeat offenders.
''It's just for show,'' Judge Rakoff said.
''We're not saying that we will never use injunctive relief,'' said the S.E.C. lawyer.
''Hope springs eternal,'' the judge replied.
The S.E.C.'s current enforcement action against Citigroup is at least the fifth time that the commission has reached a settlement with the bank related to civil fraud accusations.
Citigroup's main brokerage subsidiary, its predecessors or its parent company has agreed to not violate the antifraud laws in prior settlements with the S.E.C. dating as far back as April 2000.
A Citigroup spokesman said that ''there is no basis for any assertion that Citi has violated the terms'' of any agreement with the S.E.C.
After being slow to enter the subprime mortgage loan packaging business, Citigroup plunged headfirst just as the housing boom neared its peak. When the market melted down, Citigroup was saddled with more than $30 billion in losses and ultimately needed two federal bailouts.
The bank also found itself in the crosshairs of securities regulators and Congressional investigators, as well as the target of large private investor lawsuits.
It is unclear whether Judge Rakoff will allow the bank to resolve this case under its current settlement terms. On Wednesday, the judge criticized the $95 million penalty against the bank, pointing out that the S.E.C. estimated investors' total losses on the mortgage deal at $700 million.
''So the net effect of this is that you're only returning a small fraction of what the investors lost, yes?'' Judge Rakoff asked the S.E.C. lawyer.
Later in the hearing, the judge teased Brad S. Karp, the lawyer for Citigroup, about the penalty amount.
''I won't be cute and ask what percentage of Citigroup's net worth is $95 million because I do not have a microscope with me.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); JUDGES (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LITIGATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); LAWYERS (75%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (93%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



437 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Europe Plans to Tighten Web Privacy and Apply It to U.S. Companies

BYLINE: By KEVIN J. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
BERLIN -- The European Commission is planning a legal change next year that may prompt U.S. Web giants like Google and Facebook to rethink how they store and process consumer data, raising the prospect of a trans-Atlantic dispute over Internet privacy.
The European justice commissioner, Viviane Reding, said she planned to insert wording into a revision of the Continent's main data privacy law that would require non-E.U. companies to abide by Europe's stricter rules on data collection or face fines and prosecution.
Mrs. Reding, who has criticized Facebook's practice of storing and retaining logs of personal data, even when a user attempts to delete it, intends to add the tougher sanctions to Europe's revised Data Protection Directive, which she expects to present in January.
The European law gives individuals more control over the use of data they enter on free Web services, but it has not been revised since 1995, when the Internet was still in its infancy. The commission's recommendations on how to update the law, and any new fines for violations, must be approved by the European Parliament and Council of Ministers. 
In a speech Tuesday to a group of publishers in Brussels, Mrs. Reding signaled her intent to pursue a tougher line on privacy after meeting with Ilse Aigner, the German minister for food, agriculture and consumer protection. Ms. Aigner in September 2011 asked German federal agencies to stop using Facebook for public relations purposes as a way of protesting its policies.
''We both believe that companies who direct their services to European consumers should be subject to E.U. data protection laws. Otherwise, they should not be able to do business on our internal market,'' Mrs. Reding said. ''This also applies to social networks with users in the E.U. We have to make sure that they comply with E.U. law and that E.U. law is enforced, even if it is based in a third country and even if its data are stored in a 'cloud.'''
In her speech, Mrs. Reding did not mention Google or Facebook by name.
Her proposal is likely to attempt to limit the range of personal information that Web businesses can retain on individuals, as well as enshrine a so-called ''right to be forgotten'' in E.U. law, giving users the right to remove personal data from Web businesses' servers.
But one legal expert was skeptical that Europe, even if it did formally adopt tougher sanctions, could enforce a stricter privacy regime on U.S.-based companies.
''The challenge is one of jurisdiction in the Internet age,'' said Ulrich Boerger, a privacy lawyer at the U.S. law firm Latham & Watkins, in Hamburg. ''The Internet is a borderless entity, and in the world of electronic communications, there is no comparable system of customs rules that regulated the commerce of goods in the past.''
Alistair Verney, a Google spokesman in Brussels, said the company declined to comment. Google has said its social network, Google+, gives users the right to permanently delete information and limits communication to user-defined ''circles'' of individuals.
Tina Kulow, a Facebook spokeswoman in Hamburg, said the company declined to comment on Mrs. Reding's statements. ''What I can tell -- as we did many times before -- is that Facebook is fully compliant with E.U. data-protection laws,'' Ms. Kulow said.
Facebook and Google have signed the Safe Harbor Agreement, a 2000 pact between the United States and the European Union under which U.S. signatories promise to handle the data of European citizens according to E.U. rules.
Mr. Boerger said that the Safe Harbor Agreement was increasingly perceived as a voluntary compliance agreement, which lacked controls that would determine whether companies were abiding by E.U. rules. ''A lot of companies I know of now don't even bother with signing the agreement because it is perceived as nonbinding,'' he said.
The revisions to Europe's privacy law are being followed by Google, Facebook and other companies whose businesses rely in part on harvesting the data that users enter into the free services. The American Chamber of Commerce to the European Union, a business group, submitted a 42-page brief to European lawmakers this year that argued against enacting undue data privacy restrictions that could inhibit the free flow of information.
''AmCham E.U. would like to caution against an attempt to address all the societal challenges of the 'right to be forgotten' exclusively through creation of unjustified obligations on data controllers and processors,'' according to the chamber's document. The brief went on to warn that some E.U. countries were seeking a strict data protection law that ''would inevitably lead to a general obligation to monitor the Internet, undermining the strong foundations on which the Internet was developed in the first place and the basis on which democratic societies operate.''
In Europe, Facebook is being audited by Irish data protection officials for its handling of customer information. Representatives of the Irish Data Protection Commission visited Facebook's offices in Dublin in October to see whether the company was adhering to Irish and E.U. data privacy laws. The agency has said it plans to conclude its audit this year.
Data protection officials in Germany, Sweden, Finland, Norway and Denmark have made similar requests to local Facebook affiliates.
The Irish investigation is focusing in part on complaints made by an Austrian law student, Max Schrems, who in August filed a series of complaints against the company for retaining data he had entered on his own Facebook page, even after he had deleted it.
Mr. Schrems, who is 24 years old and attends the University of Vienna, said he asked Facebook in Ireland, where the company is legally headquartered in Europe, to supply a list of personal data it had collected on him through his account, which he set up in 2008.
Facebook sent him a PDF file that included 1,224 pages of information, he said, much of which Mr. Schrems had never entered himself but which Facebook had generated based on his inputs.
The data included such information as his physical location in Austria, and his time as an exchange student at the University of Santa Clara in California this spring. Facebook also declined to tell Mr. Schrems whether it had kept a biometrical file of his face, which he said the company was using to identify him in its photo tagging feature.
Despite his complaints, Mr. Schrems, in an interview, said he continued to use Facebook. ''I just want to see the company comply with European data protection law,'' he said. ''I think social networking is pretty cool and I'm not against that. I just find it ironic that a company which encourages users to be as transparent as possible is not being transparent.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Viviane Reding, the European justice commissioner, expects to present Europe's revised Data Protection Directive in January. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THIERRY CHARLIER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET PRIVACY (92%); DATA PROTECTION LAWS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DATA SECURITY (89%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); APPROVALS (73%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%); GOOGLE INC (85%); LATHAM & WATKINS LLP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (90%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%) EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



438 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Check Point: The Role of Regulation In Holding Back Business

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Regulation and Housing Crisis
There is a basic problem with the argument, made by several candidates, that the government forced mortgage lenders to make bad loans: most subprime loans were made by companies that were not subject to any kind of federal regulation.
Furthermore, there was no need for force. Financial companies jumped into the market. The major investment banks lined up to purchase subprime lenders, the major retail banks created subprime-lending divisions and a generation of upstart subprime lenders like Ameriquest and Countrywide were briefly celebrated as rising stars of American business. 
No executive of a major mortgage company said at the time that the government was forcing him to make subprime loans. The executives said they did it because they thought they'd make money. And even now, after the crash, with all the temptation to point figures, it is awfully hard to find a mortgage executive who echoes the argument of the Republican candidates.
Studies of the financial crisis do assign a significant measure of responsibility to the government, but mostly for its failure to regulate these lenders.
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-backed mortgage finance companies, did provide financing for large numbers of subprime loans, mostly by purchasing mortgage securities for their investment portfolios. But the historical record shows that they came late, diving into subprime lending because private companies were stealing their business and profits. As such, most experts have concluded that Fannie and Freddie helped expand the bubble but did not create it.
- Binyamin Appelbaum
Regulation and Business
Herman Cain suggested that the chief problem holding back companies was regulatory uncertainty. Other candidates, including Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, have made similar claims about regulatory burdens.
But if you look at surveys of small businesses conducted by the National Federation of Independent Business, a plurality of companies consistently say that the ''single biggest problem'' they face is low sales, not red tape or taxes.
The Labor Department's data on mass layoffs echo this finding. For the last three quarters, ''governmental regulations/intervention'' have accounted for fewer than 1 percent of layoffs.
As for hiring, one reason to believe that lack of consumer demand, rather than regulations, is discouraging employers is that businesses are not even fully using their existing staff and equipment. If regulatory requirements were so burdensome but the demand was there, you'd think that companies would at least step up their use of what they already had on hand.
But the average length of the workweek is still shorter than it was before the recession began, and has been basically flat since the start of this year.
Additionally, as pointed out by Jan Eberly, assistant Treasury secretary, companies are letting their industrial resources lie fallow rather than running everything at full capacity.
''The share of total potential industrial output in use remains 3 percent below its long-run average,'' she writes. ''Low-capacity utilization is inconsistent with concerns about future regulatory risk, but aligns with weak demand holding back current production.''
- Catherine Rampell
Who Pays Federal Taxes
Representative Michele Bachmann points out that 47 percent of Americans pay no federal income taxes. She is unusual among the candidates in using such specific numbers, and once again, the number itself is correct.
But many of those same people are subject to federal payroll taxes, meaning that Uncle Sam still gets a portion of their paycheck -- not to mention the fact that many pay state and local taxes.
The Times's David Leonhardt, analyzing data from the Congressional Budget Office, estimated that ''at most, 10 percent of all households pay no net federal taxes.''
It's also important to mention the primary reason people don't pay taxes: poverty.
- Binyamin Appelbaum
Paul on Inflation
In one of his standard attacks on the Federal Reserve, Representative Ron Paul said the recent increase in the money supply ''spells inflation'' in the near future.
So far, at least, markets do not agree.
Analyzing survey responses and market data on Treasuries and other securities, the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland estimates that the public expects the inflation rate to be less than 2 percent on average over the next decade.
- Catherine Rampell
Corporate Tax Rate
Mrs. Bachmann described the United States' corporate tax rate as the second-highest in the world. That's true, at least among the major economies. Only Japan has a higher top tax rate for corporations.
But it's also true that a bevy of loopholes significantly reduces the actual burden. As a result, the share of income that American corporations pay in taxes sits right about on the average for large economies. And a 2008 study by the Congressional Budget Office found that 55 percent of corporations had paid no taxes in at least one year of a seven-year study period.
It should be noted that many tax experts believe that it would make more sense -- and help the economy -- to lower the stated tax rates for corporations and at the same time reduce the number of exemptions, collecting the same amount of revenue in a more equitable manner.
- Binyamin Appelbaum
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPRIME LENDING (94%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); RETAIL BANKING (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); HISTORY (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (61%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (61%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%); HERMAN CAIN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



439 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Panel Votes to Reduce a Forage Fish Catch

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

 BODY:
BOSTON -- A fishing oversight group voted Wednesday to sharply reduce the allowable East Coast catch of menhaden, an oily forage fish that does not show up on dinner plates but is vital, scientists say, to the ocean ecosystem.
The Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission, which includes representatives from 15 Eastern states and the federal government, voted to reduce the menhaden harvest by as much as 37 percent compared with 2010 levels after a review found the species had been overfished and needed to rebuild. 
Millions of pounds of menhaden are caught along the Atlantic Seaboard each year, most by Omega Protein, a company that grinds it and reduces it to fish meal and oil that goes into fertilizer, feed for livestock and farmed fish, pet food and even dietary supplements. But menhaden -- which is rich in Omega 3 fatty acids and is also known as bunker or pogy, depending where you live -- is also an ecological building block, serving as a crucial food for larger fish like tuna, striped bass and bluefish, as well as birds and marine mammals.
''There's really not much in the ocean that is as healthy to eat, pound for pound, as menhaden,'' said Peter Baker, director of Northeast fisheries at the Pew Environment Group, which supported the catch reduction. ''If these other species don't have menhaden in their diet it becomes less nutritious and they're more susceptible to disease.''
Mr. Baker said the menhaden fishery was the largest on the East Coast by weight and that the population had fallen to less than 10 percent of historic levels.
The bait industry also harvests the fish for use in lobster and crab traps, Mr. Baker said, though it is estimated to catch 20 percent of the harvest, compared with about 80 percent for Omega Protein.
''We've been pushing this fish into the red zone over and over again,'' he said, ''and we're now at the critical point where it's going to stop being able to reproduce itself and perhaps go into freefall and collapse if action isn't taken immediately.''
In two separate votes, the commission members called for a minimum catch reduction of 23 percent and a target reduction of 37 percent until menhaden stocks rebound. It has yet to figure out exactly how to reduce the catch.
The only states whose representatives on the commission voted against the target 37 percent catch reduction were Virginia, where Omega Protein's fleet is based, and New Jersey.
Jack Travelstead, a representative from Virginia, questioned whether the measure would really increase menhaden stocks, suggesting that environmental factors played more of a role.
''There's an enormous amount of uncertainty,'' he said.
Ben Landry, a spokesman for Omega Protein, said the company was disappointed and felt the commission was responding to pressure from environmentalists and recreational fishermen.
''One thing is certain,'' Mr. Landry said. ''The industry is going to have to face some significant harvest cuts that will lead to a lot of hard employment questions, and a lot of tough questions as to how they're going conduct their operation.''
Several recreational fishermen at the meeting said they were deeply encouraged by the vote, which came after the commission received more than 90,000 public comments, mostly in favor of steep catch reductions.
''I think it's great that so many states recognize how vital this fish is,'' said Paul Eidman, a fishing guide based in Sandy Hook, N.J. ''It's just a start, but it's an important one.''
Mr. Eidman, who founded an advocacy group called Menhaden Defenders, said that smaller schools of menhaden off the New Jersey coast had meant a drop in business for him in recent years.
''The general feeling in New Jersey is if we don't have bunker the fishing's terrible,'' he said. ''And in this economy, people just aren't going to take a day off from work to fish unless they know the fishing's going to be really good.''
But H. Bruce Franklin, who wrote ''The Most Important Fish in the Sea: Menhaden and America,'' said a better step would have been to get rid of the so-called reduction fishing industry -- harvesting menhaden for the manufacture of meal and oil -- altogether.
''There's no rational reason for this industry to exist,'' he said. ''If the maximum measures were taken right now, it might still be a little bit too late. But we're hoping it's not.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Millions of pounds of menhaden are caught along the Atlantic Seaboard each year, but the population is now at 10 percent of historic levels. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN M. KATZ/THE VIRGINIAN-PILOT, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMAL FOODS (90%); FISHES (90%); FISHERIES (89%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); PET FOODS (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (78%); ANIMALS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); MAMMALS (77%); MARINE BIOLOGY (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); OILS & FATS (75%); FERTILIZERS (74%); AQUACULTURE (73%); OCEANS (72%); LIVESTOCK FEED (70%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTIC STATES MARINE FISHERIES COMMISSION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



440 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: HSBC's Profit Improves Despite More Loan Losses

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
8:30 a.m. Updated
LONDON -- HSBC, one of Europe's largest banks, reported third-quarter earnings at its investment banking unit that disappointed some analysts Wednesday and said that troubles at its North American mortgage business reemerged as some customers stopped interest payments.
Net income rose 66 percent to $5.22 billion in the three months that ended on Sept. 30 from the same period last year, helped by a $4.1 billion gain HSBC booked on the value of its own debt. Pretax profit at the investment banking unit more than halved to $1 billion from $2.14 billion in the period. 
Alex Potter, a banking analyst at Berenberg Bank, called the earnings ''disappointing'' but said that overall prospects for the bank remain positive. The drop in investment banking income was ''little surprise in this kind of trading environment,'' he said.
HSBC said it was sticking to its plan to cut costs by $2.5 billion to $3.5 billion by the end of 2013, including eliminating 30,000 jobs, and would continue to scale back some businesses in slower growing regions, including Poland. But it also said that its mortgage business in the United States, the former Household International subprime lender, was weighing on the group's earnings again.
Iain J. Mackay, the finance chief, said in a conference call Wednesday that ''there is an increasing number of people who stopped paying us,'' forcing HSBC to take further charges for loan losses. HSBC set aside $3.89 billion for bad loans and other risk provisions in the quarter, up from $3.15 billion in the year-earlier period, mainly because of its business in North America.
HSBC started to wind down the U.S. mortgage portfolio about four years ago after billions of dollars in loan losses that forced management to admit the acquisition of Household in 2003 was a mistake. The mortgage book is currently worth about $50 billion. Delinquency rates on the loans -- those with missed payments of 360 days or more -- were the highest since the last quarter of 2009, Mr. Mackay said.
''Customers realized that if they stop paying, there's very little we or other banks can do,'' Mr. Mackay said. ''This is an emerging trend. We monitor it very closely.''
HSBC's shares fell 5.95 percent in London on Wednesday. They have dropped 22 percent this year, less than those of Deutsche Bank and Barclays, because investors have remained confident about HSBC's large business in faster-growing regions like China.
Still, the sovereign debt crisis in Europe hurt HSBC's investment banking operation, and Stuart Gulliver, the chief executive, said market conditions remained difficult.
''The outlook for the global economy is very challenging as problems in developed markets begin to affect growth rates around the world,'' Mr. Gulliver said on the conference call. ''Trading conditions showed some improvement during October, but they remain very difficult and continuing turbulence in global markets may result in further downside risk.''
Mr. Gulliver said the financial sector was facing ''significant headwinds,'' mainly because of continuing uncertainty about the economy, financial regulation and political leadership - especially in Europe.
Earnings at HSBC's retail banking and wealth management unit fell to $224 million from $802 million, while the bank earned $1.95 billion from its commercial banking business in the third quarter, up from $1.54 billion in the third quarter of last year.
To reduce costs, HSBC decided to sell its United States credit card business and 195 branches, mainly in upstate New York, earlier this year. The bank also agreed to exit the investment advisory business in Canada, abandon retail banking in Chile and end its car insurance operations in Britain.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (75%); DEBT CRISIS (75%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (70%); GLOBALIZATION (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



441 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: Inventories At Wholesalers Decrease 0.1%

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Wholesale businesses reduced their stockpiles in September for the first time in nearly two years, while their sales rose. 
Inventories at the wholesale level fell 0.1 percent, the Commerce Department said Wednesday. It was the first decline since December 2009. The drop was largely because companies cut their stockpiles of nondurable goods, like agricultural products, petroleum and clothing. Inventories of durable goods -- including autos, furniture and machinery -- rose.
A decline in stockpiles suggests wholesalers worried in September that future sales could slow. Europe's debt crisis intensified that month, and the stock market plunged.
Reduced inventories can be a good sign if demand keeps rising because manufacturers must bolster stockpiles if they want to meet that demand.
Sales by wholesale companies rose 0.5 percent, half the increase in August but more than July.
Rising sales keep inventories from getting too high. If companies increase their stockpiles too much, that could force them to cut back on future orders.
Inventory building slowed over the summer, which lowered economic growth in the July-September period by more than a full percentage point. The economy expanded at an annual rate of 2.5 percent in the third quarter.
Some economists expect companies will increase their stockpiles in the coming months because of the higher sales.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHOLESALERS (91%); INVENTORIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); DEBT CRISIS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); AGRICULTURE (56%); EURO CRISIS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



442 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: Don't Book That Trip Just Yet. Mercury Will Be in Retrograde.

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
When Jeffrey Moran needs advice about his daily commute into Manhattan or his next business trip, he does not plug his destination into HopStop or consult a travel Web site.
Mr. Moran craves more ethereal guidance, and that is where Linda Lauren, a psychic medium, comes in.
''I have a relationship with her, just like you would a counselor or a therapist,'' said Mr. Moran, 44, a public relations chief for a wine and spirits company. ''You can have the best travel agent and the best assistant and the best travel planner in the world, but if something is not right, it's not right.'' 
Under the category of not right is traveling during a full moon (one will rise on Thursday) or when Mercury is in retrograde. More auspicious factors include certain dates, like Nov. 11 (or 11/11/11), which falls on Friday.
''It means angelic protection,'' Ms. Lauren said. ''It means alignment. It's all about embracing a new vibration. Travel will be better.''
But what happens if a full moon coincides with a good date, as it might on Friday?
That's fine, Ms. Lauren explained. A full moon creates an abundance of energy, so people tend to rush more; a full moon on 11/11/11 just requires a traveler to manage or harness the excess energy, she said.
The topic of travel has become more prevalent among clairvoyants, according to Rosemary the Celtic Lady, the founder of the American Association of Psychics. She said she counseled clients to exhale negative energy from travel stress ''out of their body.'' A psychic Web site also advertises a specific $45 reading for travel, saying that whether the client is ''traveling on business or vacation, this reading will help you be better prepared.''
The types of queries that Ms. Lauren receives speak to larger anxieties. Commuters who are heading to the office encounter service cuts on bus and train lines. Travelers tolerate grueling business trips that they feel they cannot turn down because they fear losing their jobs.
''People are looking for any way to get control,'' said Dale Thompson, a psychologist who flies about 150 times each year. ''Now it's a grand enterprise to fly anywhere. It's just become so much more of a hassle.''
Psychologists say more patients are talking to them about travel stress. Bonnie Jacobson, a clinical psychologist, said that, in the current economy, her patients felt pressure to pack as much into a business trip as possible and never to tell their bosses the toll that endless travel had taken on their personal lives.
Mr. Moran identifies with these issues. He first consulted with Ms. Lauren in 2007 about whether to buy a condominium and started meeting with her regularly to talk about meditation. During one meeting in 2008, Ms. Lauren said, he seemed run-down; he was fighting off a sinus infection he had developed because he had been traveling for three straight weeks. They started talking about his travel schedule and have not stopped since.
Ms. Lauren, a fourth-generation psychic medium who said she took counseling classes in college, said that a quarter of her time in sessions was now spent on travel issues.
She typically scours travel itineraries for her clients to make sure they are choosing the best numerological times to travel, and she reads through a special deck of cards when they ask her about attending conventions.
On Wednesday, Mr. Moran traveled to Ms. Lauren's office in Mountainside, N.J., as he does once every two months. Over the faint sound of chimes and the delicate scent of candles, Mr. Moran ran through some of his concerns: should he spend more time at his company's Westchester County office, and are Mondays good travel days to head up there?
Ms. Lauren, who charges $100 for a half-hour session, consulted a calendar on her iPad and advised him to put off that decision because of all the planetary activity ahead.
Mr. Moran asked whether it was all right to drive with his partner to Florida on Jan. 13, a Friday.
Ms. Lauren said any fears about Friday the 13th were what her mother would call ''stupid-stitions.'' She then consulted her calendar and cards.
''I'm feeling you can go early on the 13th,'' she said, adding that he might want to give himself two days to recuperate after the trip.
Sometimes, Ms. Lauren's clients just need help with handling their daily commutes. Craig Rogers, the fitness and sales director for Gravity Fitness and Spa at Le Parker Meridien Hotel, said he originally consulted Ms. Lauren to help him communicate with his dead sister, who was profoundly mentally retarded. But he soon found himself talking with her about his 50-minute daily commute from Plainfield, N.J., to his job in Midtown.
Mr. Rogers has followed Ms. Lauren's advice to meditate during his commute, using downloaded images from her Web site as visual aids.
''I see people just standing on a platform, just flipping out,'' Mr. Rogers said. ''You think people are going to be late for something magically wild. To me, you know, it's just a delay.''
Not every psychic has seen a sharp increase in travel-related issues, however. Stephen Robinson, the executive director and founder of the Holistic Studies Institute of New York, said travel questions made up only about 10 percent of his readings.
''What they are particularly concerned about is safety with travel,'' Mr. Robinson said. ''They always ask the question, 'Is the plane going to crash?' I've never seen a person's plane crash, and I've been right every time. What I see are mostly inconveniences.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Linda Lauren, right, a psychic medium who advises clients like Jeffrey Moran, left, on travel-related issues.
 Ms. Lauren, who has her office in Mountainside, N.J., uses a special deck of cards in conjunction with her clients' itineraries. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); LAYOFFS (71%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (56%); DISMISSALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



443 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Designer Lipstick: A New Splurge

BYLINE: By BEE-SHYUAN CHANG

 BODY:
KATHLEEN MUKAMAL, a homemaker who lives in Miami and New York, was waiting in a long line last Tuesday evening in the beehive-like basement of Bergdorf Goodman to meet Tom Ford, the designer who has introduced a cosmetics line there, with plans to arrive at Neiman Marcus and Saks Fifth Avenue in the months ahead.
''I heard and read repeatedly in many of the magazines I go through and devour that his red is the red to be wearing,'' Ms. Mukamal, 53, said of the particular shade of lipstick she was coveting. Upon the advice of salespeople at Mr. Ford's counter, Ms. Mukamal (the mother of Andrew Mukamal, a freelance stylist who has appeared on ''Kell on Earth'') went on to select a gold-and-white encased tube of Scarlet Rouge. The price, without tax: $48. 
A decade ago, Leonard Lauder, at the time the chairman of Estee Lauder, a partner in Tom Ford Beauty, said that in a recession women flocked to buy cosmetics. He told The Wall Street Journal that ''when lipstick sales go up, people don't want to buy dresses.''
But these days, they might well find dresses more affordable. Designer lipsticks, like those by Chanel, Dior and Dolce & Gabbana, and ones from the small independent lines Edward Bess and Ellis Faas retail for more than $30. Guerlain, with its Rouge G de Guerlain line, and By Terry are closer to $40.
La Prairie Cellular Lip Color, which includes a caviar extract made from farm-raised roe, rings up at $55 (blini and vodka not included), as does Kanebo Sensai Collection The Lipstick. And having had great success with a $70 concealer, which InStyle has voted best under-eye concealer for four years running, Cle de Peau Beaute, a Japanese line owned by Shiseido, is now selling the aptly named Extra Rich Lipstick, which retails for a jaw-dropping $60.
''We're by definition a skin care brand, so all of our makeup has our skin care technology,'' said Gisela Ballard, the executive director of marketing for Cle de Peau Beaute in the United States, explaining the higher price. She said the lipstick, which like most luxury lines closes with a discernable click, includes vitamin A acetate, a form of retinol. ''It counteracts vertical lines,'' she said. ''That's an expensive ingredient. A big component is the color pigmentation, and the shape of the lipstick is unique, which is also an extra cost. It's angled, like a diamond baguette, and because of that shape, you can draw a very precise lip.''
Mr. Ford was a little vaguer about what his expensive lipstick imparts. ''I wanted really gorgeous, rich, saturated color, and it was inspired by a kind of '70s-meets-'20s, hedonistic mood,'' he wrote in an e-mail after his store appearance.
And customers lining up to meet him were not just after color or a particular era. Poonam Billing, 24, a Parsons student, was picking up $300 in Ford cosmetics, including contouring and highlighting kits, mascara, liquid foundation and a dark purple nail polish, that she had ordered online. ''The price is obviously exorbitant,'' she said. ''I'm very into cosmetics. But it's because I'm a huge fan. It's really buying into who he is as a person.''
Karen Grant, senior global beauty industry analyst and vice president for NPD Group, the market research company, said such motivation was common. ''The consumer who is buying that lipstick is also buying a talking point,'' she said. ''It's part of the reason why we buy designer handbags or shoes in season, because the people who you know will know the difference. A brand like Cle de Peau has to rely on its skin care heritage, but fashion brands such as Tom Ford or Chanel already have established aspiration stories. It makes you feel cool to be part of it. There's a psychological element to the process.''
Though a ''lipstick index'' Mr. Lauder proposed in 2001, which contended that sales of the stuff went up during recessions, has since been largely discredited (while the price of Estee Lauder's own lipsticks have hovered at the relatively bargain price of $20), Ms. Grant said that luxury cosmetics had been performing well at the counter this year. According to NPD figures, prestige beauty sales in the United States, meaning those at department stores, generated $2.5 billion from January 2011 to September 2011, a 9 percent increase over the same period in 2010.
''The higher end of makeup and fragrance are among the fastest-growing parts of the market,'' Ms. Grant said. ''We've been calling it 'pragmatic luxuries.' Women are buying less purchases but spending more on each product. They are making meaningful choices that matter to her and make her feel good.''
In an era when makeup is often ordered online, the price of premium lipstick can include personal attention and sometimes a bit of theater.
At Bergdorf, Mr. Ford, lauded for giving Yves Saint Laurent and Gucci sexy makeovers before turning to runway designs under his own name, had conjured an atmosphere more like a one-man show than a grande dame department store. Velvet rope cordoned off the center stage on which he sat. Shoppers crowded excitedly for their turn, clutching newly bought lipsticks, foundations and eye shadows and smoothing their hair before they approached the immaculately dressed designer for him to autograph their products.
Each customer was asked to strip any plastic product wrapping. More curiously, outerwear and handbags had to be removed and given to an agreeable young man, who waited for each guest to finish her 20 seconds with Mr. Ford before returning her belongings. The process made the line move smoothly, and, not incidentally, created a sparer, chic look for the cluster of photographers in position. Wielding a gold pen, Mr. Ford whisked his signature across the thick packaging.
''Be careful not to touch the ink,'' he said after signing one item, a smile spreading across his face. ''Or it'll get all over your fingers and will smudge.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEW HEIGHTS: Tom Ford and lipsticks from Tom Ford Beauty that cost $48. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); COSMETICS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (87%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (72%)

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (58%); ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (58%); GUERLAIN SA (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

TICKER: EL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%)

PERSON: LEONARD LAUDER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



444 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Calls Vote Results 'Big Victory' For the State

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
Facing an increasingly worrisome budget and eager for additional political allies, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo on Wednesday celebrated Democratic triumphs in several important local government races, calling the election results ''a big victory for the people of the state.''
In an interview on an Albany radio program, the governor lavished praise upon Democrats who captured county executive seats in Suffolk and Erie Counties and won the mayoral race in Yonkers. Mr. Cuomo had campaigned in person for each candidate and had also endorsed dozens of other Democrats in bids for local offices. 
''I think there was a common denominator,'' Mr. Cuomo said on WGDJ-AM. He said the candidates he supported ''stressed the ability to manage government, the efficiency and the effectiveness of government, without sacrificing the goal and the purpose and the raison d'etre of government.''
Mr. Cuomo raised some eyebrows with his retort to the radio program's host, Fredric U. Dicker of The New York Post, who suggested that while the governor was very popular with voters, New York's government was not seen as favorably.
''No,'' Mr. Cuomo replied. ''I am the government.''
The governor's comment caused a stir -- even inspiring a political newspaper, The Capitol, to post on its Web site a cellphone ring tone consisting of Mr. Cuomo's four-word declaration.
The local elections on Tuesday were dominated in many corners of New York by concerns about how to balance local government budgets, which have been strained by the weak economy's limited tax revenues. In Albany, the Cuomo administration says markets are so unsettled that it can no longer accurately project tax revenues, so it has postponed releasing overdue details about the state's financial condition.
The governor's budget office failed to release its midyear financial update by the end of last month and also missed the deadline last Saturday to release financial projections for the coming fiscal year.
The Cuomo administration has said it is postponing these reports because of what Robert L. Megna, the budget director, described in a statement on Monday as ''the volatility of the market and dynamic nature of the situation.''
The Democratic minority in the State Senate is estimating a budget shortfall of $249 million this fiscal year, and a gap of $3 billion in the next, up from the $2.4 billion gap that the Cuomo budget office previously projected.
Budget officials said Wednesday that they still did not have a timetable for releasing updated financial figures, and Mr. Cuomo would say only that the figures, when they are finally released, would be ''grim.''
''I don't know anyone who doesn't say the numbers are worrisome and doesn't say the numbers are dropping off rapidly, which is mirroring what's happening nationwide,'' he said.
Having picked up new allies in several local government posts as a result of victories on Tuesday, the governor is now moving to strengthen his relationship with another set of elected officials.
A spokesman said Wednesday that Mr. Cuomo would travel to Puerto Rico on Friday to attend a conference of Hispanic lawmakers. The appearance, on the 315th day of Mr. Cuomo's administration, would be his first official trip outside the state since his inauguration.
Mr. Cuomo will join other elected officials at the conference, including the Senate majority leader, Dean G. Skelos, a Republican from Long Island, who sponsored a conference in New York City last month for the state's Hispanic community.
Scott Reif, a spokesman for Mr. Skelos, said the senator viewed the conference in Puerto Rico ''as an opportunity to continue his two-way conversation with the Hispanic community about what the Senate Republican majority should be focusing on next session.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); COUNTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); MAYORS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); WEB SITES (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



445 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Deficit Reduction Panel at Impasse, but Obama Sees No Reason to Step In

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES; Robert Pear contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The White House's expectations for the special Congressional committee on deficit reduction, never high, have been all but dashed now that the panel has reached a partisan impasse less than two weeks before it is supposed to recommend a compromise plan.
For administration officials, the prospect of the committee's failure reinforces the decision early on for President Obama to keep his distance, focus on his jobs plan and avoid the sort of prolonged debt-limit fight with Republicans that dragged down his approval ratings last summer.
Starting Friday, Mr. Obama literally will be far away -- traveling abroad for meetings with leaders of Pacific nations and returning just four days before the panel's Nov. 23 deadline.
Yet the potential failure of the committee to agree to $1.2 trillion in 10-year savings also raises the question of what happens next, a question fraught with economic risk in the short term, notwithstanding the automatic cuts of an equal amount that would occur in 2013. 
While top advisers, chiefly Mr. Obama's budget director, Jacob J. Lew, are in contact with some of the committee's members to stay abreast of its private deliberations, the hands-off approach of the president and his top advisers reflects a sense at the White House, borne out by polls, that a year away from the 2012 election more Americans say they believe Mr. Obama has been more willing to compromise and that Republicans are blocking a deal to avoid raising taxes on the wealthy.
Also, while Republicans taunted on Wednesday that Mr. Obama's absence from the fray on Capitol Hill showed a lack of leadership, administration officials and members of both parties privately say neither side wanted the White House at the table this time -- witness the fact that the law creating the 12-member committee provided seats for six lawmakers from each party only -- to see if Congress could succeed where previous White House-led efforts had failed.
And with the economic recovery at risk and Democrats pressing for help, Mr. Obama sees greater economic and political benefit in emphasizing his $447 billion job-creation plan rather than longer-range deficit reduction. And that is precisely what he has been doing all over the country since September, after giving the committee his own proposals for $3 trillion in tax increases and spending cuts to reduce projected deficits over 10 years.
''The president put forward his detailed, specific plan to go well above and beyond the mandate,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director.
''There is only one existential question when it comes to the supercommittee,'' Mr. Pfeiffer added, ''and that is, are the Republicans willing to ask the wealthy to pay more taxes? If the answer to that question is no, then they are potentially dooming the supercommittee to failure.''
Republicans, wary of being put on the defensive and positioning to avert blame should the committee fail, proposed this week to raise what they said was nearly $500 billion in new revenues over 10 years by limiting tax deductions, increasing Medicare premiums and counting on economic growth to bring in more income taxes.
Yet the White House and Democrats in Congress did not see a crack in Republicans' longstanding anti-tax stand. They dismissed the overture, in part because the Republicans also proposed to extend the Bush-era tax cuts on high-income Americans past their scheduled expiration at the end of next year, which would cost more than $800 billion over a decade. Mr. Obama has threatened to veto another extension.
While Democrats and Republicans parried on Capitol Hill, pre-emptively blaming each other for the committee's stalemate, Republicans sought to draw in Mr. Obama.
''The White House is talking with their feet by not being at the table,'' Senator John Thune, Republican of South Dakota, said Wednesday. ''The president seems to me at least to be looking for a scapegoat in all this.
''That suggests to me that they would like to see failure because it fits in with their narrative about campaigning against Republicans with whom he can't work.''
Mr. Thune was echoing the theme of recent days from the Senate's Republican leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, that the president is ''pulling for failure'' to burnish his political story line about a do-nothing Congress.
''That's absurd,'' Mr. Pfeiffer said, adding that a deal ''would be very good for the country.''
Indeed, despite the administration's distance from the proceedings, Mr. Obama and his advisers prefer a ''grand bargain'' over partisan stalemate, seeing it as potential insurance against recession and the economic headwinds from Europe, and appealing to the independent voters who favor compromise and whose support Mr. Obama needs.
But if the panel is doomed to fail, they reason, Mr. Obama can argue that he did his part.
The compromise in August between the White House and Republicans that cleared the way to increase the debt limit also cut nearly $1 trillion in domestic programs over the coming decade and established the bipartisan deficit-reduction committee to find $1.2 trillion to $1.5 trillion in additional savings.
Democrats on the panel have proposed a mix of spending reductions, including in Medicare and Social Security, that go further than Mr. Obama did and, like him, higher taxes on the wealthy. The White House and Democrats in Congress are united in insisting they will not agree to the reductions in those popular entitlement programs unless the Republicans agree to the taxes.
Republicans, meanwhile, are not alone in publicly criticizing Mr. Obama for remaining aloof.
''I fear the president is missing a huge opportunity for leadership at a crucial moment,'' said Alice Rivlin, who was a member of Mr. Obama's bipartisan fiscal commission in 2010, budget director to President Bill Clinton and to Congress and vice chairman of the Federal Reserve.
''The president could greatly enhance the chances of such a bargain by getting visibly involved,'' Ms. Rivlin added. ''It is not only the right thing to do; it is his only chance of getting his jobs program.''
Administration officials refute such criticism, and say Mr. Obama stands ready to jump in depending on the outcome in the special committee.
''The president was heavily involved in negotiations from June to August on these important fiscal issues,'' said Mr. Lew, his budget director.
''We have been -- and are -- available to provide technical and other assistance,'' he added. ''But by design this is a Congressional process.''
The White House did not consider rescheduling or shortening Mr. Obama's eight-day trip, officials said, emphasizing its trade and security themes.
The president will start at the annual Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, which he is hosting this year near Honolulu, his native city, then briefly visit Australia to mark its 60-year military alliance with the United States, and end in Bali, Indonesia, at a summit of East Asian trading partners, including China.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, headed Wednesday to a session with other Democrats on the deficit reduction panel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US CONGRESSIONAL SUPER COMMITTEE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (68%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MAX BAUCUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



446 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Ohio Vote On Labor Is Parsed For Omens

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE and STEVEN GREENHOUSE; Sabrina Tavernise reported from Columbus, and Steven Greenhouse from New York.

 BODY:
COLUMBUS, Ohio -- The landslide vote to repeal an Ohio law that limits collective bargaining has sounded a strong note of caution for Republican governors and lawmakers across the country, raising questions about some of their legislative efforts, especially those that would weaken labor unions. But the victory, while trumpeted by labor leaders, may not necessarily improve the prospects of unions or the Democrats, their traditional allies, in 2012, political analysts said.
As labor leaders took their victory lap Wednesday, Republicans and Democrats from Maine to Wisconsin were adding the Ohio results to their political calculus for next year's presidential election. Would there be fallout in Wisconsin, where Gov. Scott Walker could face a recall vote next spring? What can Democrats do to try to keep the energy -- and the issue -- from fizzling? 
Gov. John R. Kasich, who had pushed the law in Ohio, seemed chastened, acknowledging on Tuesday night that, for voters, the bill had been ''too much too soon.'' Even before the vote, his approval rating was just 36 percent, according to a Quinnipiac poll in October.
''The results here in Ohio are likely to give Republican governors and legislators incentives to be cautious,'' said John C. Green, director of the Bliss Institute, a political research center at the University of Akron. ''The popularity of the Republican position has fallen somewhat.''
But Tuesday's result contained a twist: The same voters who overwhelmingly rejected the labor bill -- by a margin of 61 to 39 percent -- voted in even greater numbers in favor of a symbolic measure against President Obama's health care law. Democrats dismissed it, but State Senator Bill Seitz, a Republican who opposed the repealed law, said it spoke to a deeper disgust among voters with the political class.
''The message is, a plague on both your houses,'' Mr. Seitz said. ''It was a nonideological expression of frustration by an overwhelming number of voters about the inability of their elected leaders to come up with a more consensus-based collaborative approach.''
Labor and Democratic politicians seized on the referendum as a warning to Republicans.
''Governors in other states ought to take heed of this,'' said Richard Trumka, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''If not, they do so at their own peril, and they may face a backlash.''
Mr. Trumka was referring to Florida, Indiana, Maine, Michigan, Missouri and Tennessee, states where Republicans have sought to enact legislation to weaken labor unions.
Perhaps the biggest fallout of the Ohio vote will be in Wisconsin, where thousands of union volunteers have geared up to collect the 540,000 signatures needed to get Governor Walker's recall on the ballot. Charles Franklin, a political scientist at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, said that while the states were distinct, the outcome in Ohio ''should probably worry him a bit,'' referring to Mr. Walker.
Stephan Thompson, executive director of the Republican Party in Wisconsin, said that comparing the situation in Ohio and Wisconsin was ''ridiculous,'' and that Democrats were ''clearly desperate to manufacture momentum for their recall attempt.''
In Ohio on Wednesday, Democrats were ecstatic. They had dented, perhaps for the first time, the soaring Republican confidence that had enabled the party to enact ambitious legislative agendas in a number of states.
Still, Mr. Green cautioned against inferring too much from Tuesday's victory, drawing the comparison with Republican euphoria after the 2010 midterms.
''They were very excited to win the election and then they found out that governing is very hard,'' he said. ''Unions and their allies have every right to be excited this morning, but what that means for the future is not entirely clear.''
Labor leaders said the Ohio results were an instruction manual for the Democrats, after months of being on the defensive.
''The election last night is the road map for the Democrats if they're willing to use it,'' said Michael Podhorzer, the A.F.L.-C.I.O's political director. ''The base isn't permanently immobilized. It just needs to be mobilized by an issue they care about.''
Republican lawmakers said the electorate favored some of the law's provisions -- like performance-based compensation, and employees' paying more toward health care and pension plans -- and that while there was no immediate plan for new legislation, trimming labor costs was still pressing.
''SB5 went away last night but the problem didn't,'' said State Senator Keith Faber, a Republican.Other states watched warily, like Indiana, where a Republican-led legislative committee recently recommended adopting a right-to-work law, which would eliminate any requirement that workers in unionized workplaces pay union dues or fees.
Labor experts said events in Ohio were a cautionary tale against legislative overreach.
''This is a wake-up call to tone it down and take on more achievable goals,'' said Samuel Estreicher, the director of the Center for Labor and Employment Law at New York University. ''A movement towards reform is inevitable because the economics are calling for it.''
For public workers, it was, quite simply, a triumph.
''I did my work with a smile on my face and was very proud,'' said Lee Eicher, a 57-year-old meat inspector. ''We sent a message. We really sent a message.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF AKRON (54%)

PERSON: JOHN KASICH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); SCOTT WALKER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%); AKRON, OH, USA (58%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



447 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Posts Quarterly Profit, But Chief Calls It Insufficient

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- General Motors reported its seventh consecutive quarterly profit on Wednesday but stressed the need for more cost cutting as profit margins declined. It also warned of a more difficult end to the year than Wall Street was anticipating.
G.M. said its third-quarter profit fell 12 percent, to $1.73 billion, or $1.03 a share, largely because of higher marketing and engineering costs. Revenue increased 8 percent, to $36.72 billion, but was down about $200 a vehicle. 
Its chief executive, Daniel F. Akerson, declared the performance ''not good enough.'' The results compared with $1.96 billion, or $1.20 a share, in the period a year earlier.
The company earned $2.2 billion in North America but lost money in Europe, South America and its ''international'' division, excluding China, even though sales increased in every region and 9 percent over all. Executives said the carmaker would fall short of its goal to break even this year in Europe, before taxes and restructuring costs, as economic conditions there worsen.
Globally, G.M. said, fourth-quarter profits will be roughly the same as a year ago, which analysts said would translate to more than 40 percent below their estimates.
G.M. shares, already down 39 percent for the year, tumbled 10.9 percent, to $22.31, on Wednesday after the results were released The drop has delayed the federal government's plans to sell the 500 million G.M. shares it still owns, allowing the shadow of taxpayer ownership to linger over the company as executives work to make progress in its turnaround. The shares amount to a 26 percent stake.
''G.M. delivered a solid quarter thanks to our leadership positions in North America and China, where we have grown both sales and market share this year,'' Mr. Akerson said in a statement. ''But solid isn't good enough, even in a tough economy. Our overall results underscore the work we have to do to leverage our scale and further improve our margins everywhere we do business.''
Rebecca Lindland, an analyst with the research firm IHS Automotive, said G.M. still needs to pare expenses to be successful long term but can only go so far in areas like product development.
''Toyota and Honda products are suffering right now because they were designed under tremendous cost pressure and it shows in cheap interiors and disappointing product reviews,'' said Ms. Lindland, who is based in Greenwich, Conn. ''G.M. simply cannot afford to sacrifice product for pennies. They must continue to build products that consumers are willing to pay for, and that's much more likely to require significant investment.''
G.M., which went through bankruptcy protection in 2009 and executed the nation's largest public stock offering nearly a year ago, has earned $7.1 billion through the first nine months of 2011. Its profit for all of 2010 was $4.7 billion.
On a conference call with analysts and reporters, Mr. Akerson said the losses in Europe and South America were ''not sustainable and not acceptable.'' G.M. this week appointed a new European president, Karl-Friedrich Stracke, and assigned him the task of speeding the division's reorganization.
G.M. lost $292 million in the third quarter in Europe, about half as much as a year ago, but it had been profitable there in the second quarter and will continue to lose money there in the current quarter, G.M.'s chief financial officer, Daniel Ammann, said. He declined to say specifically how G.M. would address the situation, with actions like closing factories or cutting large numbers of jobs in Europe.
''There's nothing that's off the table,'' Mr. Ammann said on a conference call later Wednesday.
Meanwhile, North America, the source of its biggest troubles before bankruptcy, has become its strongest asset, with pretax profits totaling $7.3 billion so far this year, even as sales shift toward small cars that cost less than the trucks and sport utility vehicles that were the lifeblood of the old G.M.
''Clearly, customers are seeing value in the vehicles we're putting into the marketplace,'' Mr. Ammann said. ''Our margins aren't where we want them to be, but we have a pretty clear road map, and we understand where the gaps are.''
In September, G.M.'s 48,500 hourly workers ratified a new four-year labor agreement that gave them bonuses of $5,000 but no wage increases except for those on the entry-level pay scale. G.M. said the deal, which calls for creating or retaining 6,400 jobs and moving some work to the United States from Mexico, increases the company's labor costs by only about 1 percent a year.
G.M. was the most profitable of the three Detroit automakers in the third quarter. The Ford Motor Company earned $1.6 billion, and Chrysler earned $212 million.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Daniel F. Akerson, G.M.'s chief, called for more cost cutting as profit margins fell. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (95%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ENGINEERING (76%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (73%); STOCK OFFERINGS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: DANIEL F AKERSON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (91%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



448 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: Italy Pushed Closer to Financial Brink

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY, NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and LOUISE STORY; Reporting was contributed by Julie Creswell, Landon Thomas Jr., Jack Ewing and Liz Alderman.

 BODY:
A day after Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi offered his resignation in the face of rising global market skepticism, investors revolted Wednesday, suggesting they do not believe that even a new leadership could fix Italy's intransigent financial problems and revive its economy.
Italian bond rates crossed a crucial level of 7 percent, prompting questions about whether Italy could soon need an international bailout just as the financially strapped nations of Greece, Ireland and Portugal did before it.
The difference this time is that Italy, the third largest economy in the euro zone, is on a different scale than those other, much smaller European nations. That means any bailout would have to be proportionately far larger, and some analysts question whether the European Union or the International Monetary Fund have enough resources to pay for it at all.
''This is a new phase of the crisis,'' said Nicolas Veron, a senior fellow at Bruegel, a research organization in Brussels. ''This is uncharted territory.'' 
In a worst-case situation, Italy might possibly be even forced to abandon the euro. The departure of a nation the size of Italy from the single currency would potentially have far more devastating effects on the euro area than that of a small country like Greece.
But Italy may not be at the precipice yet, analysts say. Even though its nearly 2 trillion euros, or $2.7 trillion, in debt is worth 120 percent of its gross domestic product, it is a far stronger and wealthier economy than Greece or the other smaller nations. Italy's relatively small budget deficit compares well to some other larger nations elsewhere in Europe, like Britain.
Italy could withstand interest rates at this level longer than weaker countries like Greece, analysts say, and there are a number of things that may yet happen to ease the crisis -- for example, if Italy elected a new government credibly committed to fixing its debt woes and restarting growth. Also, European leaders could more clearly formulate the terms of a proposed, much-vaunted bailout fund and put it to work, or the E.C.B. could step in more vigorously to buy Italian debt.
''Italy is not nearly in as bad of a situation as some observers may suspect,'' said Marc Chandler, an economist at Brown Brothers Harriman.
The sharp market moves sent shudders across Europe, raising concern that this could be a moment when its markets would finally seize up in the way they did after Lehman Brothers collapsed in the United States in 2008. But they did not appear to set off quick policy reactions from European officials or, apart from bond buying by the European Central Bank, by central banks around the world including the Federal Reserve.The new euro-era record for Italian bond yields of 7.48 percent is close to the level that earlier prompted financial bailouts for Greece, Ireland and Portugal. One of Europe's big clearing houses, where traders settle bond purchases, raised its margin requirements in response to the perceived increased riskiness of Italian debt, further unnerving investors.
The stocks of European banks that hold large amounts of Italian debt fell. And the cost of insuring Italian debt as measured by credit default swaps rose to record levels.
The bond interest rates later fell back slightly to about 7.3 percent, but only after the European Central Bank was reported to be buying Italian bonds again. This suggests many private investors are fleeing Italian debt, raising worrying questions about how Italy will finance itself when it needs to sell billions of dollars of debt at a key auction next week.
A spokesman for the International Monetary Fund said Wednesday that the fund currently had no plans to offer Italy financial assistance.
''It's really up to Italy to act,'' said one European official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Another senior European official, who also spoke on condition of anonymity, said: ''It's not a time for bailouts, it's a time for them to implement policies.''
There is a feeling among several European leaders that all the E.C.B. buying so far has only allowed Italy to stall its fiscal and political reforms, and perhaps the market pressure on Italy is needed to make its government react as it should, the officials said.
The crisis in Italy started in July when investors began to fear financial contagion could spread from Greece. As bond yields began to march steadily higher, the European Central Bank stepped in to buy Italian debt.
With French banks among some of the biggest holders of Italian debt, the fear is that the crisis could now spread forcefully from Italy into the heart of the euro zone. French yields also rose worryingly on Wednesday to above 3 percent.
The only way to save Italy and stop the contagion, many economists believe, is for the E.C.B. to buy Italian bonds on a much more aggressive scale than it has so far been prepared to do. But while the E.C.B. will not let the euro fail, analysts said it would avoid bailing out Italy as long as possible, to keep the pressure on Mr. Berlusconi and other Italian leaders to make reforms by cutting spending and removing impediments to growth.
Italy poses ''the real danger to Europe and the world economy,'' Barclays Capital said in a research note. ''Yields on Italian government debt have reached new highs, and are at levels that we consider clearly unsustainable.''
As painful as a Greek default would be, the world economy faces a much graver threat if investors abandon Italian debt and the cost of borrowing for the Italian government becomes prohibitive. Italy is the world's fourth largest borrower after the United States, Japan and Germany. Indeed, it owes more than the other troubled countries on the periphery of Europe -- Greece, Ireland, Portugal, and Spain -- put together.
On the Continent, French banks are the most exposed, holding more than $100 billion worth of sovereign Italian bonds and on the line for another $300 billion loans to private borrowers like Italian companies and consumers.
French banks are heavily exposed because they moved aggressively into Italy over the last decade buying Italian rivals, and operating extensive branch networks. BNP Paribas, which bought Italy's Banca Nazionale del Lavoro five years ago, holds 12.2 billion euro worth of Italian sovereign debt, despite reducing its Italian bond holdings by 40 percent since the summer.
Credit Agricole, another Gallic financial giant, holds 8.7 billion euros worth of Italian bonds. Societe Generale, whose shares have been pounded in recent months on fears of a Greek default, holds roughly $1.6 billion in Italian bonds.
Shares of all three French giants were down more than 2 percent in trading in Paris on Wednesday.
French banks could also serve as transmission lines for problems at American institutions if the debt crisis on the Continent worsens. Unlike Greek banks, or even Italian banks, French banks are global giants who trade hundreds of billions of dollars each day with their American counterparts, especially through complex derivatives trades where Societe Generale and BNP Paribas are among the world's biggest players.
Indeed, the heightened European fears took a sharp toll on American bank stocks Wednesday. In midday trading, shares of Citigroup were down 5 percent, while JPMorgan Chase was off 4.3 percent.
A senior investment banker at a large European institution said that the E.C.B. was buying some Italian bonds on Wednesday, but the amounts were not large. But another banker in London said the E.C.B. had bought an estimated 2.75 billion euros in bonds on Wednesday, of which 2.5 billion euros was Italian debt, a large number by E.C.B. standards.
According to one Rome-based banker who speaks regularly with the Italian government, it has been foreign investors more than their local counterparts that have been the majority sellers of Italian debt. He pointed to two main reasons for this: the fact that the European Banking Authority is making a push for European banks to mark their sovereign debt to market levels as well as increased margin requirements from clearing houses.
But analysts point to another factor as well. Italy is the only country among Europe's weaker nations that offers investors the opportunity to buy or sell futures contracts tied to Italian bonds. Though the feature was presented initially as a way for investors to hedge their exposures, investors who want to make a negative bet on the euro zone can sell Italian bond futures -- which adds to the already significant downward pressure coming from investors who are unloading their bond holdings directly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EURO (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); BONDS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); CURRENCIES (75%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (75%); RESIGNATIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (57%) ITALY (97%); EUROPE (96%); GREECE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); PORTUGAL (90%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



449 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Iran Frames U.N. Nuclear Report as U.S. Bullying

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH and RICK GLADSTONE; Robert F. Worth reported from Washington, and Rick Gladstone from New York. Reporting was contributed by Steven Erlanger from Paris; Michael Schwirtz from Moscow; Ethan Bronner from Jerusalem; Nada Bakri from Beirut, Lebanon; and Artin Afkhami from Boston.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Angered by the release of an incriminating United Nations report on their nuclear ambitions, Iran's leaders sought on Wednesday to cast it as an American fabrication.
They denounced its chief author as a Washington stooge and vowed that their country would not be bullied into abandoning its nuclear program.
The tone of their reaction suggested that Iran's leaders were worried that the report, released Tuesday by the International Atomic Energy Agency, could sway world opinion and deepen Iran's isolation, complicating its repeated claims that the goal of the nuclear program is energy for civilian use, not weapons. 
France, Britain and Germany quickly signaled that they would join the United States in seeking new ways to pressure Iran, although Russia said it was opposed to any new sanctions and China said it was noncommittal.
The report, buttressed by evidence not previously disclosed, concluded that Iran had been secretly engaged in behaviors that suggested that it was seeking to construct a nuclear weapon. The report also asserted that Iran might be researching ways to deliver a nuclear weapon by means of a missile warhead. It was the first time that the agency, an arm of the United Nations, had made such assertions.
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran led the verbal assault on the report, saying it had been orchestrated by Iran's enemies, principally the United States, which he said had dictated the report's findings.
''Why do you exploit the I.A.E.A. dignity in favor of the U.S. administration?'' Mr. Ahmadinejad asked rhetorically in a question directed at Yukiya Amano, the director general of the agency, who oversaw the production and content of the report.
''Some bullying powers are armed with atomic bombs and they claim Iran is seeking such bombs,'' Mr. Ahmadinejad said, in remarks reported by Iranian news agencies. ''The Iranian nation does not fear you if it wants to make a bomb, but it does not need a bomb.''
Ali Asghar Soltanieh, Iran's chief delegate to the United Nations nuclear agency, was quoted by Iranian news agencies as saying that Mr. Amano had violated the agency's charter by asserting false claims in the report and that he would ''see consequences of his historical mistake.''
Foreign Minister Alain Juppe of France, an advocate of harsher sanctions against Iran but opposed to a military response, said France and its allies were prepared to impose ''unprecedented sanctions'' on Iran. Mr. Juppe also said that France wanted to convene the United Nations Security Council, which has already imposed four rounds of sanctions on Iran. ''We cannot accept this situation, which is a threat,'' he told RFI radio.
Britain's foreign secretary, William Hague, told the House of Commons that ''no option is off the table'' concerning Iran penalties and that he would work on persuading Russia and China to view Iran more critically.
Catherine Ashton, the European Union's foreign policy chief, said that the United Nations report's findings ''strongly indicate the existence of a full-fledged nuclear weapons development program in Iran.''
The European Union, like the United States, has already imposed sanctions on Iran that exceed those specified by the Security Council. They include travel bans and asset freezes on 35 people and 215 entities.
The German foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, called the new report ''alarming'' and said more severe sanctions would be inevitable if Iran ''continues to refuse to conduct serious negotiations on its nuclear program.'' But he ruled out military action.
Whether the weight of evidence in the report could alter the calculus of Russia and China, who have been Iran's chief defenders against European and American claims about Iran's nuclear intentions, remained unclear, but Russia quickly signaled that it would not support new or stricter sanctions regardless of what the report suggested.
Before the release of the report, Iranian officials had said it was intended to bolster the case for a pre-emptive military strike on Iran by Israel, which considers Iran its most lethal enemy and has dropped hints of planning such an attack.
Reacting to the report on Wednesday, Prime Minister Benjahim Netanyahu of Israel said nothing about a military response. But in a statement, he said the report ''corroborates the position of the international community, and of Israel, that Iran is developing nuclear weapons.''
The reaction among Iran's Arab neighbors, historically suspicious of Iran's motivations, clearly reflected worries about a possible military confrontation and economic upheaval. A columnist for the conservative Lebanese daily An-Nahar, Rajeh al-Khoury, wrote that it was not in President Obama's interests ''to slide into a new war that could set the Gulf and Middle East region on fire and push the price of oil to astronomical levels.''
Others expressed skepticism that the report provided enough justification to attack Iran in order to thwart its nuclear ambitions. ''There is insufficient evidence to decide whether to go to war,'' said Ma'moun al-Husseini, a columnist for Al-Khaleej, a United Arab Emirates newspaper.
Walid Choucair, a columnist for the newspaper Al-Hayat of Saudi Arabia, which has no love for Iran, said the report could even help Iran by validating widespread suspicions that Israel was looking for an excuse to attack. He wrote that such a threat strengthened ''the argument by the Iranian regime and its allies in the region that they constitute the formidable 'resistance' to the 'Zionist entity.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The office of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran released a photo of Mr. Ahmadinejad in Shahrekord, Iran, on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH VIA REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); BULLYING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (88%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); FRANCE (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



450 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; TEXT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 17039 words

HEADLINE: CNBC 'Your Money, Your Vote' Republican Presidential Debate

 BODY:
The following is a transcript of the CNBC ''Your Money, Your Vote'' Republican presidential debate at Oakland University in Auburn Hills, Mich, as provided by Federal News Service.
Speakers: Representative Michele Bachmann (R-MINN.)
Businessman and Columnist Herman Cain
Former Speaker of the House of Representatives Newt Gingrich (R-GA.)
Former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman (R)
Representative Ron Paul (R-TEXAS) 
Governor Rick Perry (R-TEXAS)
Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney (R)
Former Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA.)
Moderators: Maria Bartiromo and John Harwood
MARIA BARTIROMO: Throughout the evening tonight, we'll be joinedby an all-star line-up of the smartest people on CNBC. First uptonight: Jim Cramer, the host of ''Mad Money.'' Jim, welcome.(Cheers, applause.)
JIM CRAMER: Thank you, Maria.
JOHN HARWOOD: And we also want to hear your voice. Go to ourwebsite, debate.cnbc.com, and tweet us at hashtag CNBCdebate. All
night we'll be showing your tweets on the bottom of the screen, so allthe candidates will have even more of a motive to impress.
MS. BARTIROMO: In the interest of time, the candidates haveagreed to forgo opening and closing statements tonight. So let's getstarted.
And we begin with you, Mr. Cain. I want to begin with what wesaw today, another rough day for our money, for our 401(k)s. Onceagain we were all impacted by the news that the Dow Jones IndustrialAverage dropped 400 points today. The reason: Italy is on the brinkof financial disaster. It is the world's seventh-largest economy. Aspresident, what will you do to make sure their problems do not takedown the U.S. financial system?
HERMAN CAIN: Let's start with two things. First, we must growthis economy. We are the biggest economy in the world, and as long aswe are stagnant in terms of growth in GDP, we impact the rest of theworld. We must do that.
But we're not going to be able to do that until we put some fuelin the engine that drives economic growth, which is the businesssector. This administration has done nothing but put stuff in thecaboose, and it's not moving this economy. We must grow this economy,number one.
Number two, we must assure that our currency is sound. Just like -- a dollar must be a dollar when we wake up in the morning. Justlike 60 minutes is in an hour, a dollar must be a dollar.
If we are growing this economy the way it has the ability to do, andat the same time we are cutting spending seriously, we will havethings moving in the right direction in order to be able to survivethese kind of (ripple effects ?)
MS. BARTIROMO: So to be clear: Focus on the domestic economy;allow Italy to fail?
MR. CAIN: Focus on the domestic economy, or we will fail. So,yes, focus on the domestic economy first. There's not a lot that theUnited States can directly do for Italy right now because they have -- they're really way beyond the point of return that we -- we as theUnited States can save them.
MS. BARTIROMO: Governor Romney, should we allow Italy to fail?Should we have a stake in what's going on in the eurozone right now?
MITT ROMNEY: Well, Europe is able to take care of their ownproblems. We don't want to step in and try and bail out their banksand bail out their governments. They have the capacity to deal withthat themselves. They're a very large economy. And there will be,I'm sure, cries if Italy does default, if Italy does get in trouble,and we don't know that'll happen. But if they get to a point wherethey're in crisis and banks throughout Europe could hold a lot ofItaly debt, we'll -- we'll then face crisis. And there'll have to besome kind of effort to try and uphold their financial system.
There will be some who say here that banks in the U.S. that haveItalian debt -- that we ought to help those as well. My view is, no,no, no. We do not need to step in to bail out banks either in Europeor banks here in the U.S. that may have Italian debt. The rightanswer is for us -- (applause) --
MS. BARTIROMO: But the U.S. does contribute to the InternationalMonetary Fund, and the IMF has given $150 billion to the eurozone.Are you saying the U.S. should stop contributing to the IMF?
MR. ROMNEY: I'm happy to continue to participate in worldefforts like the World Bank and the IMF. But I'm not happy to havethe United States government put in place a TARP-like program to tryand save U.S. banks that have Italian debt, foreign banks doingbusiness in the U.S. that have Italian debt, or European debt -- we'rejust -- of banks there.
There's going to be an effort to try and draw us in and talkabout how we need to help -- help Italy and help Europe. Europe isable to help Europe. We have to focus on getting our own economy inorder and making sure we never reach the kind of problem Italy ishaving.
If we stay on the course we're on, with the level of borrowingthis administration is carrying out, if we don't get serious aboutcutting and capping our spending and balancing our budget, you'regoing to find America in the same position Italy is in four or fiveyears from now, and that is unacceptable. We got to fix our -- ourdeficit here. (Applause.)
JIM CRAMER: Congressman Paul. (Inaudible) -- to say. You know,I really get that. But I'm on the front lines of the stock market.We were down 400 points today. We're not going to be done going downif this keeps going up, if Italy keeps -- the rate keeps going up.Surely you must recognize that this is a moment-to-moment situationfor people who have 401(k)s and IRAs and the like, and you wouldn'tjust let it fail, just go away and take our banking system with it.
REPRESENTATIVE RON PAUL (R-TX): No, you don't. You have to letit -- you have to let it liquidate. We've had -- we took 40 years tobuild up this worldwide debt. We're in a debt crisis never seenbefore in our history. The sovereign debt of this world is equal tothe GDP, as ours is in this country. If you prop it up, you'll doexactly what we did in the Depression, prolong the agony. If you do -- if you prop it up, you do what Japan has done for 20 years.
So, yes, you want to liquidate the debt. The debt isunsustainable. And this bubble was predictable because 40 years ago,we had no restraints whatsoever on the monetary authorities and wepiled debt on debt, we pyramided debt, we had no restraints on thespending. And if you keep bailing people out and prop it up, you justprolong the agony, as we're doing in the housing bubble.
Right now Fannie May and Freddie Mac are demanding more moneybecause we don't allow the market to determine what these mortgagesare worth. If you don't liquidate this and clear the market, believeme, you're going to perpetuate this for a decade or two more, and thatis very, very dangerous. (Applause.)
MR. CRAMER: Governor Huntsman. (Inaudible.) Italy's too big tofail. It's great. I would love it if we were independent. It wouldbe terrific (to say it's your fault ?), it's your fault and it's yourproblem.
But if this goes, the world banking system could shut down. Doesn'tthat involve our banks, too?
JON HUNTSMAN: So we wake up this morning, and we find that theyield curve with respect to Italy is up and prices are down. So ifyou want a window into what this country is going to look like in thefuture if we don't get on top of our debt, you're seeing it playingout in Europe right now. You're seeing the metastasy effect of thebanking sector.
And what does it mean here? What am I most concerned about, Jim?I'm concerned that it impacts us in a way that moves into our bankingsector, where we've got a huge problem called ''too big to fail'' inthis country. We have six banks in this country that, combined, haveassets worth 66 percent of our nation's GDP, $9.4 trillion. Theseinstitutions get hit, they have an implied bailout by the taxpayers inthis country. And that means we're setting ourselves up for disasteragain.
Jim, as long as we have banks that are too big to fail in thiscountry, we're going to catch the contagion, and it's going to hurtus. We've got to get back to a day and age where we have properly-sized banks and financial institutions.
JOHN HARWOOD: Thank you, Governor. (Applause.)
Governor Romney, I want to switch to the bailout drama that we'velived through in this country, and no state understands it better thanthe state of Michigan. I'm going to talk a little bit about yourrecord on that. Four years ago when you were running for theRepublican nomination and the auto industry was suffering, you said,where's Washington? After the election, when the Bush administrationwas considering financial assistance for the automakers, you said no,let Detroit go bankrupt. Now that the companies are profitable againafter a bailout supported by your Republican governor here inMichigan, you said, well, actually, President Obama implemented myplan all along, or he gravitated to my plan. With a record like thatof seeming to be on all sides of the issue, why should Republicans beconfident in the steadiness of your economic leadership?
MR. ROMNEY: John, I care about about this state and about theauto industry like -- I'd guess like no one else on this stage, havingbeen born and raised here, watched my parents make their life here. Iwas here in the 1950s and 1960s when Detroit and Michigan was thepride of the nation. I've seen this industry and I've seen this statego through tough times.
And my view some years ago was that the federal government, byputting in place CAFE requirements that helped foreign automobilesgain market share in the U.S., was hurting Detroit. And so I said,where is -- where is Washington? They're not doing the job they oughtto be doing.
My view with regards to the bailout was that whether it was byPresident Bush or by President Obama, it was the wrong way to go. Isaid from the very beginning they should go through a managedbankruptcy process, a private bankruptcy process. We have capitalmarkets and bankruptcy. It works in the U.S. The idea of billions ofdollars being wasted initially -- then finally they adopted themanaged bankruptcy. I was among others that said we ought to do that.
And then after that, they gave the company to the UAW, they gaveGeneral Motors to the UAW, and they gave Chrysler to Fiat. My plan,we would have had a private sector bailout with the right -- privatesector restructuring and bankruptcy with the private sector guidingthe -- the direction, as opposed to what we had with the governmentplaying its heavy hand.
MR. HARWOOD: Governor, let me follow up, because -- (applause) -- the auto bailout is part of a larger issue facing your candidacy,as you know. Your opponents have said you've switched positions onmany issues. It's an issue of character -- not personal, butpolitical. You seemed to encapsulate it in what -- the last debatewhen you said: I'm running for office, for Pete's sake.
What can you say to Republicans to persuade them the things yousay in the campaign are rooted in something deeper than the fact thatyou're running for office?
MR. ROMNEY: I think -- John, I think people know me pretty well,particularly in this state, in the state of Massachusetts, NewHampshire that's close by, Utah where I (served in ?) the Olympics. Ithink people understand that I'm a man of steadiness and constancy.
I don't think you're going to find somebody who has more of thoseattributes than I do.
I've been married to the same woman for 25 -- excuse me -- (chuckles) I get in trouble -- for 42 years. (Laughter.) I've -- I've been in the same church my entire life. I worked at one company,Bain, for 25 years, and I left that to go up and -- off and help savethe Olympic Games.
I think it's outrageous the Obama campaign continues to push thisidea when you have in the Obama administration the most politicalpresidency we've seen in modern history. They're actually decidingwhen to pull out of Afghanistan based on politics.
Let me tell you this. If I'm president of the United States, Iwill be true to my family, to my faith and to our country, and I willnever apologize for the United States of America. That's my belief.(Cheers, applause.)
MR. HARWOOD: Now, Governor Perry, I want to ask you about this,because you've raised this issue yourself about Governor Romney, andyou're running as a politician with strong convictions. From the flipside, Ronald Reagan raised taxes when the deficit got too big. GeorgeW. Bush supported TARP and the auto bailout when he thought we mightface a Great Depression -- second Great Depression. Does that,examples like that, tell you that good, effective leaders need to showthe kind of flexibility that Governor Romney has showed on someissues?
GOVERNOR RICK PERRY (R-TX): The next president of the UnitedStates needs to send a powerful message not just to the people of thiscountry but around the world that America is going to be Americaagain; that we are not going to pick winners and losers fromWashington, D.C.; that we're going to trust the capital markets andthe private sector to make the decisions and let the consumers pickwinners and losers.
And it doesn't make any difference whether it's Wall Street orwhether it's some corporate entity or whether it's some Europeancountry. If you are too big to fail, you are too big. (Applause.)
MS. BARTIROMO: Speaker Gingrich, Federal Reserve Chairman BenBernanke has called the unemployment in this country a national crisisdue to the amount of days people are out -- months that people are outof work and the number of people out of work. Many of you have comeup with tax reform plans. Why is tax reform the path to job creation?And if it's not the only path, what else can you implement to getpeople back to work?
NEWT GINGRICH: Well, first of all, I think Ben Bernanke is alarge part of the problem and ought to be fired as rapidly aspossible. (Cheers, applause.) I think the Federal Reserve ought tobe audited, and we should have all the decision documents for 2008, '9and '10 so we can understand who he bailed out, why he bailed themout, who he did not bail out and why he did not bail them out.(Cheers, applause.) So I'm -- I'm glad that Ben Bernanke recognizessome of the wreckage his policies have led to.
I've -- the reason we follow -- I think most of us are for taxpolicies that lead to jobs is because we've had two cycles in mylifetime, Ronald Reagan and the Contract with America, both of whichhad the same policies: lower taxes, less regulation, more Americanenergy, and have faith in the American job creator, as distinct from aSaul Alinsky radicalism of higher taxes, bigger bureaucracy with moreregulations, no American energy -- as the president announced againtoday in his decision on offshore -- and finally, class warfare. So Iwould say that all of us on this stage represent a dramaticallygreater likelihood of getting to a paycheck and leaving behind foodstamps than does Barack Obama. (Cheers, applause.)
MS. BARTIROMO: Congressman Bachmann, same question to you. Howcan you create jobs as quickly as possible?
REPRESENTATIVE MICHELE BACHMANN (R-MN): Well, I think one thingthat we know is that taxes lead to jobs leaving the country. All youneed to know is that we have the second-highest corporate tax rate inthe world. And if you go back to 1981 and you look around the world,we had a lot of high corporate tax countries.
It was 47 percent, on average, on a lot of countries across the world.But if you look today in the United States, we have an effective rate,if you average in state taxes with federal taxes, of about 40 percent;but the world took a -- took a clue. Because capital is mobile, andcapital went to places where corporate tax rates went to 25 percentand falling. We're still stuck in a 1986 era of about a 40-percenttax rate.
We have to lower the tax rate, because of the cost of doingbusiness, but we have to do so much more than that. We -- our biggestproblem right now is our regulatory burden. The biggest regulatoryproblem we have is ''Obamacare'' and Dodd-Frank. I will repeal thosebills. I've written those bills to repeal those bills. They gottago. But beyond that -- (cheers, applause) -- but beyond that, we haveto legalize American energy.
And here's something else that we have to do that will help theeconomy. We have to build the fence on America's southern border andget a grip on dealing with our immigration problem. (Applause.)
MS. BARTIROMO: OK.
MR. HARWOOD: Senator Santorum, you've proposed a zero tax onmanufacturing businesses.
RICK SANTORUM: I have.
MR. HARWOOD: All right. I understand the sentiment behind that,and the state of Michigan's lost hundreds of thousands ofmanufacturing jobs over the last few decades. Isn't that the kind ofdistortion in the tax code that people want to get away from in orderto get rates down -- flatter, simpler, fairer?
MR. SANTORUM: I think getting the rate down to zero is down -- is pretty far down. That's good. It's down to zero -- (inaudible) --
MR. HARWOOD: But it's down for the manufacturing industry, asopposed to people doing other things. Isn't that picking winners andlosers?
MR. SANTORUM: It's down for a sector of the economy, not pickingan individual winner or loser. It's down for an entire sector of theeconomy, that we're getting our hat handed to us by losing jobs. I -- we see that here in Michigan; we see it across this country. And the
reason is government has made us uncompetitive. We need to compete ontaxes. We need to compete on regulations.
We need to repeal ''Obamacare.'' I've said I'm going to repeal everysingle Obama-era regulation that costs business over a hundred milliondollars. Repeal them all. We'll save -- we'll send a very clearmessage out to manufacturers in this country and all over the worldthat America will compete.
Some have suggested we need to go into a trade war with China andhave tariffs. That just taxes you. I don't want to tax you. I wantto create an atmosphere where businesses and manufacturers can beprofitable. Lower taxes, repatriating funds, zero percent tax if yourepatriate those funds and invest them in plant and equipment.
And then of course an energy policy that everyone on this stageis going to agree with, that says we are going to produce energy inthis country. I'm different than many of them, that -- I'm going tocut all the subsidies out and let the market work, as opposed tocreating incentives for different forms of energy that the governmentsupports. (Applause.)
MS. BARTIROMO: You have all said that you will repeal thepresident's health care legislation. We will get into that because wewant to know, then what? What is the plan once you repeal''Obamacare?''
But first, Mr. Cain, the American people want jobs but they alsowant leadership. They want character in a president. In recent days,we have learned that four different women have accused you ofinappropriate behavior. Here we're focusing on character and onjudgement. (Boos.)
You've been a CEO. (Boos.) You know that shareholders arereluctant to hire a CEO where there are character issues. Why shouldthe American people hire a president if they feel there are characterissues?
MR. CAIN: The American people deserve better than someone beingtried in the court of public opinion based on unfounded accusations.(Cheers, applause.)
And I value my character and my integrity more than anythingelse. And for every one person that comes forward with a falseaccusation, there are probably -- there are thousands who would saynone of that sort of activity ever came from Herman Cain.
You're right, this country's looking for leadership. And this is whya lot of people, despite what has happened over the last nine days,are still very enthusiastic behind my candidacy.
Over the last nine days -- (applause) -- over the last nine days,the voters have voted with their dollars, and they're saying theydon't care about the character assassination, they care aboutleadership and getting this economy growing and all of the otherproblems we face. (Applause.)
MR. HARWOOD: Governor Romney, when you were at Bain Capital, youpurchased a lot of companies. You could fire the CEO and themanagement team or you could keep them. Would you keep a CEO -- areyou persuaded by what Mr. Cain has said? Would you keep him on if youhad bought his company? (Boos.)
MR. ROMNEY: I'm -- look. Look, Herman Cain is the person torespond to these questions. He just did. The people in this room andacross the country can make their own assessment. I'm not going to -- (applause) -- inaudible). (Extended cheers and applause.)
MR. HARWOOD: Governor Huntsman, let me switch back to theeconomy. (Cheers, applause.)
Many Republicans have criticized the Occupy Wall Street movement.Well, we have have an NBC News/Wall Street poll this week that showeda large proportion of the American people, 76 percent, said theybelieve there's something wrong with our economy that tilts toward thewealthy at the expense of others.
Do you consider something wrong with the structure of our economyand the income inequality that it produces? Is that somethinggovernment should do something about?
And if so, what?
JON HUNTSMAN: Let me just say that I want to be the president ofthe 99 percent. I also want to be the president of the 1 percent.This nation is divided, and it's painful, and it is unnatural for themost optimistic blue-sky people this world has ever known. We areproblem solvers.
When I hear out the people who are part of the Wall Streetprotests, I (say ?) thank goodness we have the ability to speak out.I might not agree with everything they say. I don't like the anti-capitalism messages. But I do agree that this country is never againgoing to bail out corporations.
I do agree -- (applause) -- thank you. I do agree that we haveblown through trillions and trillions of dollars with nothing to showon the balance sheet but debt and no uplift in our ability to competeand no addressing our level of unemployment.
And I do agree that we have institutions, banks, that are too bigto fail in this country, and until we address that problem -- we canfix taxes, we can fix the regulatory environment, we can move towardenergy independence; so long as we have instant banks that are too bigto fail, we are setting ourselves up for long-term disaster andfailure.
MR. HARWOOD: So, Governor, you agree with Governor Romney thatthe bailout that Governor Snyder supports in Michigan was a mistake?
MR. HUNTSMAN: The bailout here in the auto sector, $68 billionworth -- we're going to end up footing a bill -- Governor Snyder knowsthat -- of probably $15 billion when all is said and done. I don'tthink that's a good use of taxpayer money. Instead there ought to besome way of taking the auto sector through some sort ofreorganization, get them back on their feet. The people in thiscountry are sick and tired of seeing taxpayer dollars go towardbailouts and we're not going to have it anymore in this country.(Applause.)
MR. CRAMER: Governor Romney, do you believe public companieshave any social responsibility to create jobs?
Or do you believe, as Nobel laureate Milton Friedman, the mostimportant, most influential conservative economist of the 20th centuryheld, that corporations should exist solely to create maximum profitfor their shareholders?
MR. ROMNEY: This is a wonderful philosophical debate, but youknow what? We -- we don't have to decide between the two because theygo together. Our Democratic friends think that when a corporation isprofitable, that's a bad thing. I remember asking some, where do youthink -- where do you think profits go? When you hear that a companyis profitable, where do you think it goes? And they said, well, topay the executives their big bonuses. I said no, actually, none of itgoes to pay the executives. Profit is what's left over after they'veall been paid. What happens with profit is that you can grow thebusiness. You can expand it. You add working capital, and you hirepeople.
The right thing for America is to have profitable enterprisesthat can hire people. I want to make American businesses successfuland thrive. What we have in Washington today is a president and anadministration that doesn't like business, that somehow thinks theywant jobs, but they don't like businesses. Look, I want to see ourbusinesses thrive and grow and expand and be profitable. (Cheers,applause.) I want to see -- (inaudible) -- I want a (job ?) --
MR. CRAMER: Governor Perry, 30 seconds to you. Do you thinkthat companies can both be profitable and be able to create jobs? Doyou think it's a dichotomy, or do you think they can do it?
GOV. PERRY: They better be. They better be, and that's thereason the tax plan that I laid out, a 20 percent flat tax on thepersonal side and a 20 percent corporate tax rate -- that will getpeople working in this country. (Applause.) We need to go out thereand stick a big old flag in the middle of America that says, ''Open forbusiness again.'' (Cheers, applause.)
MR. CRAMER: Mr. Speaker, how about to you? Can corporations doboth?
MR. GINGRICH: Look, obviously, corporations can and should doboth. And what is amazing to me is the inability of much of ouracademic world and much of our news media and most of the people onOccupy Wall Street to have a clue about history.
(Cheers, applause.)
In this town, Henry Ford started as an Edison Electric supervisorwho went home at night and built his first car in the garage. Now,was he in the 99 percent, or the 1 percent? Bill Gates drops out ofcollege to found Microsoft. Is he in the 1 percent, or the 99percent?
Historically, this is the richest country in the history of theworld because corporations succeed in creating both profits and jobs.And it's sad that the news media doesn't report accurately how theeconomy works. (Cheers, applause.)
MS. BARTIROMO: (Inaudible) -- I'd like to know what the -- Mr.Speaker, I'm sorry, but what is the media -- what is the mediareporting inaccurately about the economy?
MR. GINGRICH: What? (Laughter.)
MS. BARTIROMO: What is the media reporting inaccurately aboutthe economy?
MR. GINGRICH: (I love humor disguised as a question ?). That'sterrific. (Laughter.)
I have yet to hear a single reporter ask a single Occupy WallStreet person a single rational question about the economy that wouldlead them to say, for example: Who's going to pay for the park you'reoccupying if there are no businesses making a profit? (Cheers,applause.)
MR. CRAMER: Senator Santorum, I want to talk about a high-quality problem our country has. I just came back from North Dakota.We have made the largest oil discovery in a generation there. Notonly is it a -- defined a big step toward creating energyindependence, it stands to create as many as 300,000 jobs. But whatthe guys tell me up there is that they can't handle the rush withoutfederal help. Would you favor incentives -- incentives to get workersand businesses to where the jobs are -- to support this boom?
MR. SANTORUM: No, because we've done it in Pennsylvania.Pennsylvania has Marcellus shale. It took a while for us to ramp up,but we're drilling 3(,000) to 4,000 wells. The price of natural gas,because of Marcellus shale -- which is the second largest natural gas
find in the world -- has gone from $12 to $3.65. And we let themarketplace work.
So no, we didn't have the federal government come in and bail us out.
I want to make the point about manufacturing jobs again, becauseif you're -- if you're talking about creating jobs that trickle down,I agree with Newt. We have folks who have (sic) innovators. But healways -- he talked about innovators that created jobs for blue-collarworkers. The unemployment rate among non-college-educated is wellinto the double digits in America. It's 4 or 5 percent for people whohave college degrees.
The reason I put forth this manufacturing point is not just so wecan say ''made here in America.'' That we can create opportunities foreveryone in America, including those that don't have that collegeskill set. People who built this country, like my grandfather who wasa coal miner.
So that is a very important part that Republicans, unfortunately,are not talking about. We need to talk about income mobility. Weneed to talk about people at the bottom of the -- of the income scalebeing able to get necessary skills and rise so they can supportthemselves and a family. And that's what manufacturing does, andthat's why I'm laser-beam focused on it. (Applause.)
MS. BARTIROMO: Let's get back to tax reform.
Mr. Cain, let's talk fairness in taxation. Ever since thiscountry started taxing income a hundred years ago, our system chargesthose people who make more money a higher rate than those people whomake less money. Governor Perry has said he doesn't believe in thatapproach, and your 9-9-9 plan suggests you don't either.
Why now, when the higher-income group is doing better than therest of America, is the time to switch to the same rate for all of us?
MR. CAIN: My proposal is the only one that solves the problem bythrowing out the current tax code, which has been a mess for decades -- (applause) -- and we need to put in something different that I'veproposed: 9-9-9. It satisfies five simple criteria.
It is simple. The complexity costs us $430 billion a year.
It is transparent. People know what it is. There are thousandsof hidden ''sneak attaxes'' in the current tax code. That's why I wantto throw it out.
It is fair. The reason it's fair is because of the definition inWebster, which says everybody gets treated the same, all businessesget treated the same, not having Washington, D.C., pick winners andlosers. This is why I have proposed a bold plan of 9-9-9: 9 percentbusiness flat tax, 9 percent tax on personal income, a 9-percentnational sales tax. It treats everybody the same. And it will boostthis economy.
MS. BARTIROMO: How do you ensure that when the government needsmore revenue, that the sales tax doesn't go up and that plan doesn'tturn into 19-19-19?
MR. CAIN: Tax codes do not raise taxes, politicians do.(Cheers, applause.) And as long as it's visible, the people will holdthe politicians' feet to the fire. It's not the code that raisestaxes, it's the politicians. Because the code -- because the approach9-9-9 will be very visible, the American people are going to hold therates at 9.
MR. HARWOOD: Governor Romney, Mr. Cain's got a flat tax, RickPerry's got a flat tax, Congresswoman Bachmann is talking about a flattax. You don't have a flat tax. You're proposing to preserve theBush era tax rates. What is wrong with the idea that we should go toone rate? Why do you believe in a progressive tax system?
MR. ROMNEY: Well, I would like to see our tax rates flatter.I'd like to see our code simpler. I'd like to see the special breaksthat we have in the code taken out. That's one of the reasons why I'dtake the corporate rate from 35 down to 25, is to take out some of thespecial deals that are there.
With regards to our tax code, what I want to do is to take ourprecious dollars as a nation and focus them on the people in thiscountry that have been hurt the most, and that's the middle class.
The Obama economy has really crushed middle-income Americans. Thispresident has failed us so badly. We have 26 million people out ofwork or in part-time jobs, that need full-time work or have stoppedlooking for work altogether.
Median incomes have dropped 10 percent in the last three years.At the same time, gasoline prices are up, food prices are up, healthcare costs are up. And so what I want to do is help the people who'vebeen hurt the most. And that's the middle class. And so what I do isfocus a substantial tax break on middle-income Americans.
Ultimately, I'd love to see if -- see us come up with a plan thatsimplifies the code and lowers rates for everybody. But right now,let's get the job done first that has to be done immediately. Let'slower the tax rates on middle-income Americans.
MR. HARWOOD: Congresswoman Bachmann, Governor Romney isaccepting -- (applause) -- the premises of the Democratic argumentthat you have to have a fair approach to taxation that preservesdifferent rates for different people.
Why is he wrong?
REP. BACHMANN: Well, I would say President Obama is the onethat's wrong, because President Obama's plan for job creation hasabsolutely nothing to do with the true people who know how to createjobs. He should really be going to job creators if he wants to knowhow to create jobs.
Instead, he continues to go to General Axelrod in Chicago to lookfor his orders to figure out how to deal with the economy. That won'twork.
We know what needs to be done. We have a real problem. When youhave 53 percent of Americans paying federal income taxes, but you have47 percent of Americans who pay no federal income taxes, you have areal problem.
And that's why in my tax plan, I have everyone paying something,because everyone benefits by this magnificent country. So even if itmeans paying the price of two Happy Meals a year, like $10, everyonecan afford to pay at least that. And what it does is create amentality in the United States that says that freedom is free. Butfreedom isn't free.
We all benefit. We all need to sacrifice. Everybody has to be a partof this tax code. (Applause.)
MS. BARTIROMO: Congressman Ron Paul, you have said you want toclose down agencies. Tell us about your tax plan, as well as closingagencies, federal agencies. Where do those jobs go?
REP. PAUL: Well, eventually they go into the private sector.They don't all leave immediately when the plan goes into effect.(Scattered applause.)
But what my plan does is, it addresses taxes in a littledifferent way. We're talking about the tax code, but that's theconsequence, that's the symptoms. The disease is spending. Everytime you spend -- (scattered applause) -- spending is a tax. We taxthe people, we borrow, and then we print the money, and then theprices go up, and that is a tax. So you have to address the subjectof spending. That is the tax.
That is the reason I go after the spending. I propose in thefirst year cut $1 trillion out of the budget -- (cheers, applause) -- in five departments.
Now the -- the other thing is -- that you must do if you want toget the economy going and growing again is you have to get rid ofprice fixing. And the most significant price fixing that goes on, thatgave us the bubble, destroyed the economy and is preventing this fromcoming out is the price fixing of the Federal Reserve manipulatinginterest rates way below market rates. (Applause.) You have to havethe market determine interest rates if you want a healthy, viableeconomy.
MS. BARTIROMO: So you think the economy would be stronger ifinterest rates were higher right now?
REP. PAUL: You would have -- you would have more incentive. Youwould take care of the elderly. They get cheated. They get nothingfor their CDs. Why -- why cheat them and give the banks loans at 0percent? Then they loan it back to the government at 3 percent.They're ripping us off at the expense of those on fixed incomes andthen retirees.
MS. BARTIROMO: Even though higher interest rates would make itmuch more expensive to borrow mortgages, borrow --
REP. PAUL: But what you want is the market to determine this.Whoever thought that one person, the Federal Reserve Board chairman,knows what the money supply should be? Just in the past six months,M1 has gone up at the rate of 30 percent.
That spells inflation. That spells lower standard of living andhigher prices. And watch out, they're coming. (Applause.)
MS. BARTIROMO: We are just getting started tonight. When wereturn, how will the candidates breathe new life into the lifelesshousing market?
MR. HARWOOD: Plus, the view of the economy from the corneroffice.
(Video plays:)
MR. : I think that we're in serious trouble. Businesspeopleare struggling.
MR. : The problems of the economy didn't arrive in 20minutes, and they won't be resolved in 20 minutes.
MR. : The most important economic issue of concern to me islack of leadership in government and the lack of any focus on buildingconfidence both with consumers and the business community.
(Video ends.)
MR. HARWOOD: So how are the candidates going to turn thingsaround? CNBC's Republican presidential debate will be right back.Stay with us. (Applause.)
(Announcements.)
MS. BARTIROMO: Welcome back to CNBC's Republican presidentialdebate. With us for this portion of the program, CNBC's senioreconomics reporter, Steve Liesman.
Welcome, Steve. (Applause.)
STEVE LIESMAN (CNBC senior economics reporter): It's great to behere, Maria. Thank you.
MS. BARTIROMO: Most economists agree that there can be noeconomic recovery without a recovery in housing. American familieshave lost some $7 trillion in home value in the last five years.Right now 4 million people are behind on their mortgage or inforeclosure. Twenty-five percent of homeowners owe more to the banksthan their house is actually worth.
Governor Romney has said that the government should let theforeclosure process play out so that the housing market can recoverand the free markets can work.
Speaker Gingrich, is Governor Romney right?
MR. GINGRICH: Well, he's certainly right in the sense that youwant to get through to the real value of the houses as fast as youcan, because they're not going to rise in value as long as you staytrapped, as Japan has done now for 20 years. But I think there aretwo specific steps you got to understand in terms of housing.
To pick up on something Congresswoman Bachmann said, if theRepublican House next week would repeal Dodd-Frank and allow us to putpressure on the Senate to repeal Dodd-Frank, you'd see the housingmarket start to improve overnight. Dodd-Frank kills small banks; itkills small business. The federal regulators are anti-housing loan.And it has maximized the pain level.
You could also change some of the rules so that it would beeasier to do a short sale, where the house is worth less than themortgage, than it is to do a foreclosure. Today the banks areactually profiting more by foreclosing than by encouraging shortsales.
But in the long run, you want the housing market to come back?the economy has to come back. When you're at 4-percent unemployment,you suddenly have a dramatic increase in demand for housing. Whenyou're at 9- percent-plus unemployment, it's hard to get the housingmarket to come back.
MS. BARTIROMO: Governor Romney, respond in 30 seconds. Not oneof your 59 points in your economic plan mentions or addresses housing.Can you tell us why?
MR. ROMNEY: Yeah, because it's not a housing plan, it's a jobsplan. And the right way to get -- (cheers, applause.)
The best -- the best thing you can do for housing is to get theeconomy going, get have people working again, seeing incomes, insteadof going down, incomes coming up so people can afford to buy homes.The things the speaker just indicated are excellent ideas as well.You have to let the market work and get people in homes again, and thebest way for that to happen is to -- is to allow this economy toreboot.
What we know won't work is what this president has done, which isto try and hold off the foreclosure process, the normal marketprocess, to -- to put money into a stimulus that failed and to put inplace a whole series of policies from ''Obamacare'' to Dodd-Frank thathave made it harder for this economy to get going. You want to getAmerica's economy going, we know how to do it. It's do almost theexact opposite of what President Obama has done. (Cheers, applause.)
(Off-mic exchange.)
MR. LIESMAN: Governor Romney, we've created 2.7 million jobssince February 2010. Over that period of time, the housing market hascontinued to decline. We're at 2003 price levels now. If we keepgoing the way we're going, in four or five years we'll be at 1999price levels. The $7 trillion figure that Maria mentioned couldalmost double. Are you willing to let that happen in America?
MR. ROMNEY: And exactly what you -- what would you do instead?Would you decide to have --
MR. LIESMAN: I'm asking you.
MR. ROMNEY: -- have -- to have the federal government go out andbuy all the homes in America? That -- that's not going to happen inthis country. Markets work. When you have government play its heavyhand, markets blow up, and people get hurt.
And the reason we have the housing crisis we have is that thefederal government played too heavy a role in our markets. Thefederal government came in with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac -- (cheers,applause) -- and Barney Frank and Chris Dodd told banks they have togive loans to people who couldn't afford to pay them back. And so -- and so our friends -- our friends in Washington today, they say, oh,if we've got a problem in the housing, let's let government play abigger role.
That's the wrong way to go. Let markets work. Help people getback to work. Let them buy homes. You'll see home prices come backup if we allow this market to work.
(Applause.)
MR. LIESMAN: But Governor Perry, every quarter I get the report,the GDP figures, and it's a negative number for housing. And we'velost some 2 million construction jobs. Housing creates jobs as well;doesn't it?
GOV. PERRY: Not a negative number in Texas, and one of thereasons is because we have put policies into place that follow my planto get America back working again.
MR. LIESMAN: OK, so translate that plan to America, please.
GOV. PERRY: When you look at what I've laid out, whether it'sthe energy side and getting the energy industry going -- and RickSantorum is absolutely correct on that, is let's get our energyindustry freed up, federal lands, federal waters -- pull back all ofthose regulations. Everybody on this stage understands, it's theregulatory world that is killing America. (Applause.)
The tax side of it, yeah, have a flat tax. Have a corporate flattax in there, as well. But the real issue facing America areregulations. It doesn't make any difference whether it's the EPA orwhether it's the federal banking, the Dodd-Frank or ''Obamacare,''that's what's killing America. And the next president of the UnitedStates has to have the courage to go forward, pull back everyregulation since 2008, audit them for one thing: Is it creating jobs,or is it killing jobs? And if that regulation is killing jobs, doaway with it. (Applause.)
MR. HARWOOD: Well, Congresswoman Bachmann, in one of the lastdebates you were asked what you would do about foreclosures, and youtold moms to hang on. But your advice, as your colleagues havementioned, was: Let the economy recover. So you agree with GovernorRomney that the way to fix the housing market is to let theforeclosure process proceed more rapidly?
REP. BACHMANN: Well, what I agree with is that we have got tostop what we're doing now. When we had the financial meltdown, 50percent of the homes were being financed by Fannie and Freddie; today,it's 90 percent of the homes. In other words, the government is thebacker of the homes.
Well, let's take a look and an analysis of what a great,brilliant job Freddie and Fannie are doing. They just applied thisweek for another $7 billion bailout because they're failing. Theother one applied for a $6 billion bailout because they're failing.
But what did they do? They just gave bonuses of almost $13million to 10 top executives. This is the epicenter of capital crony -- crony capitalism. That's what's wrong with Washington, D.C. Forthese geniuses to give 10 of their top executives bonuses at $12million, and then have the guts to come to the American people andsay, give us another 13 billion (dollars) to bail us out just for thequarter? That's lunacy. We need to put them back into bankruptcy -- (applause) -- and get them out of business. They're destroying thehousing market.
MR. HARWOOD: Since you mentioned Fannie and Freddie, SpeakerGingrich, 30 seconds to you. Your firm was paid $300,000 by FreddieMac in 2006. What did you do for that money?
MR. GINGRICH: You -- were you asking me?
MR. HARWOOD: Yes.
MR. GINGRICH: I offered them advice on precisely what theydidn't do. (Laughter, applause.)
Look, look, this is not -- this is --
MR. HARWOOD: Were you not trying to help Freddie Mac fend offthe effort by the Bush administration --
MR. GINGRICH: No. No, I do no -- I have never done that.
MR. HARWOOD: -- to curb Freddie Mac?
MR. GINGRICH: I have never done -- I assume I get a secondquestion. I have never done any lobbying, every contract that waswritten during the period when I was out of the office specificallysaid I would do no lobbying, and I offered advice. And my advice as ahistorian, when they walked in and said to me, we are now making loansto people who have no credit history and have no record of paying backanything, but that's what the government wants us to do, is I said -- I said to them at the time: This is a bubble. This insane. This isimpossible.
It turned out, unfortunately, I was right and the people who weredoing exactly what Congresswoman Bachmann talked about were wrong.And I think it's a good case for breaking up Fannie Mae and FreddieMac and getting much smaller institutions back into the private sectorto be competitive and to be responsible for their behavior.(Applause.)
MR. LIESMAN: Mr. Cain, government-sponsored entities Fannie Maeand Freddie Mac, as Congresswoman Bachmann said, now underwrite orguarantee 90 percent of the home financing in this country. Whatwould you do with these -- with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac? Would youshut them down even though it could mean higher interest rates forAmericans and make it even harder than it is right now for Americansto get home loans?
MR. CAIN: You don't start there. You start with fixing the realproblem, which is growing this economy, which is why I have put a boldsolution on the table, 9-9-9.
Secondly, then you get the regulators off of the backs of thebanks, like someone mentioned, get the regulars out of the way, suchthat the small banks and the medium-sized banks aren't being forcedout of the business. They would then be in a better position, andthey might develop a desire in order to help homeowners reset theirmortgages if they were able to see, number three, some certainty.Uncertainty is what's killing this economy, and until we throw out thetax code and put in something bold, get government out the way byreducing the regulatory environment, we are going to still have thehousing problem.
MR. LIESMAN: I'm sorry, Mr. Cain, but you would come into officeand Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac would be there, and the question was,what would you do with them?
MR. CAIN: OK, after I did those three things that I outlined,then deal with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
MR. LIESMAN: Right.
MR. CAIN: You don't start solving a problem right in the middleof it, so we got to do that first.
I would also turn those GSEs into private entities. Thegovernment does not need to be in that business. I would find a wayto unwind Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac such that the marketplace candetermine the future of the housing market. (Applause.)
MR. HARWOOD: Governor Huntsman, I want to go back to the issuethat you raised before about ''too big to fail.'' If anything, thatproblem has gotten worse since the financial crisis than before. The10 biggest bank holding companies in this country now hold nearly 90percent of all the assets in the banking system, up from 75 percent in2006. So what would you do? Would you break up the banks to removethe risk or diminish the risk for American taxpayers?
MR. HUNTSMAN: Let me just say on the housing discussion here,lost in all of this debate is the fact that there are people tuning intonight who are upside-down in terms of the financing of their homes,who are feeling real pain, people who probably heard today that theylost a job. These issues are very real. They're complicated. For usto say that there's an easy solution to housing, that's just notright. And that's not fair. The economy does have to recover inorder for the housing market to pick up its slack and for us to getonto housing starts, which ought to be 15 percent of our nation's GDP,and today it's 2 percent.
With respect to the banks that are too big to fail, you know,today we've got, as I mentioned earlier, six institutions that areequal to 60 (percent), 65 percent of our GDP, $9.4 trillion. Theyhave an implied guarantee by the taxpayers that they'll be protected.That's not fair. That's not right for the taxpayers.
MR. HARWOOD: So you break them up?
MR. HUNTSMAN: I say we need to -- we need to right-size them. Isay in the 1990s you had Goldman Sachs, for example, that was 1.1 -- that was -- that was $200 billion in size. By 2008 it had grown to$1.1 trillion in size. Was that good for the people of this country?Or were -- were we assuming -- (inaudible) -- process.
MR. HARWOOD: Well, how would you accomplish that? How would youright-size?
MR. HUNTSMAN: I think we ought to set up some sort of fund.Well, I think we ought to charge some sort of fee from the banks thatmitigates the risk that, otherwise, the taxpayers are carrying.There's got to be something that takes the risk from the taxpayers offthe table so that these institutions don't go forward with thisimplied assumption that we're going to bail them out at the end of theday.
That's not right, and it's not fair for the taxpayers of this country.(Applause.)
MS. BARTIROMO: Let's stay on regulation for a moment. You haveall said that you will repeal President Obama's health carelegislation. Down the line, 30 seconds: If you repeal ''Obamacare,''what's the answer?
Jon Huntsman.
MR. HUNTSMAN: I would sit down and I would meet with the 50governors of this country. And I'd say: I did health care reform inmy state. Took us three years to get it done. We delivered aninsurance connector that was not a costly mandate.
You can sit down with the 50 governors and you can address costcontainment. This is a $3 trillion industry, half of which any expertwill tell you is totally nonsense and superfluous spending. How doyou get cost out of the system? How do you empower patients to betterunderstand what they're getting when they go into the doctor's office?
Number two, we need to do a better job in harmonizing medicalrecords so that we can pull up on a consistent basis the mostefficacious course of treatment for patients.
And third, we need to close the gap on the uninsured without acostly mandate, letting the free market work in bringing peopletogether with truly affordable insurance.
MS. BARTIROMO: That's time. We want to get each of yourcomments on what the plan is.
Ron Paul.
REP. PAUL: We need to get the government out of the business.And we do need to have the right to opt out of ''Obamacare,'' but weought to have the right to opt out of everything. And the answer toit is turn it back over to the patient and the doctor relationshipwith medical savings accounts.
So I would say that we've had too much government. I've been inmedicine. It's gone downhill. Quality has gone down. Prices haveskyrocketed because of the inflation. So you need to get a marketforce in there. But medical savings accounts.
But this mess has been created -- it's a bipartisan mess, so it'sbeen there for a while. But what we need is the doctor-patientrelationship and medical savings accounts where you can deduct it fromyour taxes and get a major medical policy. Prices then would comedown.
MS. BARTIROMO: Thirty seconds. Governor Perry.
GOV. PERRY: Obviously, on the Medicare side you have to have aninsurance type of a program where people have options, which givesthem a menu of options of which they can choose from.
I think you have to have the doctors and the hospitals and the otherhealth care providers being given incentives on health care ratherthan sick care.
And then on Medicaid, it's really pretty simple, just like Jonand Mitt both know. You send it back to the states and let the statesfigure out how to make Medicaid work -- (applause) -- because I'llguarantee you, we will do it safely, we will do it appropriately andwe will save a ton of money.
MS. BARTIROMO: Mr. Cain.
MR. CAIN: The legislation has already been written: H.R. 3000.In the previous Congress, it was H.R. 3400. And what that does -- it's already been written. We didn't hear about it in the previous -- the previous Congress, because ''Princess Nancy'' sent it to committeeand it stayed there -- (laughter) -- it never came out. H.R. 30 -- H.R. 3000 allows the decisions to be with the doctors and thepatients, not with the bureaucrats in Washington, D.C. Thelegislation has already been written. (Applause.)
MS. BARTIROMO: Governor Romney?
MR. ROMNEY: Health care in 30 seconds -- it's a little tough,but let me try. (Laughter.)
Number one, you return to the states the responsibility forcaring for their own uninsured, and you send the Medicaid money backto the states so they can craft their own programs. That's numberone.
Number two, you let individuals purchase their own insurance -- not just getting it through their company, but buy it on their own ifthey want to -- and no longer discriminate against individuals whowant to buy their insurance.
Number three, you do exactly what Ron Paul said. I don't alwayssay that, but I'm going to say it right now. (Laughter.) And thatis, you have to get health care to start working more like a market.And for that to happen, people have to have a stake in what the cost,and the quality as well, is of their health care. And so a healthsavings account or something called co-insurance, that's the way tohelp that and make that happen.
And finally, our malpractice system in this country is nuts.We've got to take that over and make sure we don't burden our systemwith that. (Applause.)
MS. BARTIROMO: Mr. Speaker.
MR. GINGRICH: Well, I just want to point out, my colleagues havedone a terrific job of answering an absurd question. (Laughter.)
To say, in 30 seconds --
MS. BARTIROMO: You have said you want to repeal ''Obamacare,''correct?
MR. GINGRICH: I'd like to -- let me just finish, if I may -- (inaudible, applause) -- to say in 30 seconds what you would do with18 percent of the economy, life and death for the American people, atopic I've worked on since 1974, about which I wrote a book called''Saving Lives and Saving Money'' in 2002, and for which I founded theCenter for Health Transformation, is the perfect case of why I'm goingto challenge the president to seven Lincoln-Douglas style three-hourdebates with a timekeeper and no moderator, at least two of whichought to be on health care, so you could have a serious discussionover a several-hour period that affects the lives of every person inthis country. (Cheers, applause.)
MS. BARTIROMO: Would you like to try to explain -- would youlike to -- (cheers, applause) -- would you like to try to explain, insimple speak, to the American people, what you would do after yourepeal the president's health care legislation?
MR. GINGRICH: In 30 seconds? (Laughter.)
MS. BARTIROMO: Take the time you need, sir. Take the time youneed.
MR. GINGRICH: I can't take what I need; these guys'll all gangup on me.
MS. BARTIROMO: You want to answer the question tonight on healthcare, or no, Speaker?
MR. GINGRICH: (Inaudible) -- something like -- (inaudible).
MS. BARTIROMO: You want to try to answer the question tonight,Speaker?
MR. GINGRICH: No, let me -- let me just say it very straight.One, you go back to a doctor-patient relationship and you involve thefamily in those periods where the patient by themselves can't make keydecisions. But you relocalize it.
Two, as several people said, including Governor Perry, you putMedicaid back at the state level and allow the states to reallyexperiment, because it's clear we don't know what we're doingnationally.
Three, you focus very intensely on a brand-new program on brainscience, because the fact is, the largest single (out-year ?) set ofcosts we're faced with are Alzheimer's, autism, Parkinson's, mentalhealth and things which come directly from the brain. And I am forfixing our health rather than fixing our health bureaucracy, becausethe iron lung is the perfect model of saving people so you don't needto pay for a federal program of iron lung centers because the poliovaccine eliminated the problem.
That's a very short pracis. (Cheers, applause.)
MS. BARTIROMO: Congresswoman.
REP. BACHMANN: The main problem with health care in the UnitedStates today is the issue of cost. It's just too expensive. AndPresident Obama said that's what he would solve in ''Obamacare.'' We'dall save $2,500 a year in our premiums. Well, we have ''Obamacare,''but we didn't have the savings. So what I would do to replace it isto allow every American to buy any health insurance policy they wantanywhere in the United States without any federal minimum mandate.Today there is an insurance monopoly in every state in the country. Iwould end that monopoly and let any American go anywhere they want.That's the free market.
Number two, I would allow every American to pay for thatinsurance policy, their deductibles, their copay, theirpharmaceuticals, whatever it is that's medical-related with their owntax-free money. And then finally, I'd have true medical malpracticeliability reform. If you do that, it's very simple. People own theirown insurance policies, and you drive the cost down, because what wehave to get rid of is government bureaucracy in health care. That'sall we bought in ''Obamacare'' was a huge bureaucracy. That has to goaway. (Applause.)
MS. BARTIROMO: Senator.
MR. SANTORUM: This is, I think, the difference between me and alot of the candidates. I heard a lot of responses, but I hadn't -- Ihaven't seen a lot of consistency in some of the -- some of thoseresponses on the last few questions.
When it comes to health care, back in 1992 I introduced the firsthealth savings account bill that everybody up here said was the basisfor consumer-driven health care. I was leading on that before anyoneelse was even talking about it. Secondly, I was someone who proposeda block grant for Medicaid way back in 1998 with Phil Gramm, againleading on this issue. Same thing reforming the Medicare program backin the 1990s. Again, I led on these issues. I was always for havingthe government out of the health care business and for a bottom-up,consumer-driven health care, which is different than Governor Romneyand some of the other people on this panel.
Number two -- and -- and I didn't get a chance to answer the -- any of the housing questions. I was on the bank and the housingcommittee when -- in -- in the United States Senate. I was one of 24people who wrote a letter to Harry Reid saying: Please let us bringup this housing legislation, which I voted for in the committee, thatwould have put curbs on Fannie and Freddie. I -- I -- I was out therebefore this bubble burst, saying this was a problem.
I -- I was in Scranton, Pennsylvania, the other day and I had oneof a -- a home builder. He was the head of the association, came upto me and said: Rick, I'm here to apologize. We came here to pushyou so you would oppose, you know, putting caps on Fannie and Freddie.You were right. We were wrong.
Time and time again, Wall Street -- the Wall Street bailout -- five of the eight people on this panel supported the Wall Streetbailout. I didn't. I know that we solve problems best from thebottom up, not the top down and government intervention in themarketplace.
MS. BARTIROMO: Governor Romney, you have 30 seconds to respond.(Applause.)
MR. ROMNEY: That's -- that's fine. I very -- believe verydeeply in the functioning of markets. The work I've done on healthcare -- I actually worked in -- as a consultant to the health careindustry, to hospitals and various health institutions. I had theoccasion of actually acquiring and trying to build health carebusinesses. I know something about it, and I believe markets work.
And what's wrong with our health care system in America is thatgovernment is playing too heavy a role. We need to get our markets towork by having the consumer, the patient, have a stake in what thecost and quality is of health care, give them the transparency theyneed to know where the opportunities are for lower cost and betterquality, to make sure that the providers offer them the broadest arrayof options that they could have. And once we have that happening,you'll see us -- we -- 18 percent of our GDP is spent on health care.The next highest nation in the world is 12 percent. It's a hugedifference.
MS. BARTIROMO: Time --
MR. ROMNEY: We have to get the market to work to make sure thatwe get the kind of quality and value that America deserves.
MR. HARWOOD: But Governor, let me ask you about health care,because Congressman Paul said put it back to the doctor and thepatient.
You said a few moments ago that you thought that states should havethe responsibility for insuring the uninsured. Of course, inMassachusetts you enacted an individual mandate and subsidies to havepeople who didn't have insurance get it. So you think there's apretty large role for government in this area.
MR. ROMNEY: Well, I think the people have a responsibility toreceive their own care. Doctor-patient relationship is, of course --
MR. HARWOOD: The government (has ?) responsibility to force it.
MR. ROMNEY: I didn't know whether Ron Paul was saying he's goingto get rid of Medicaid. I would not get rid of Medicaid. It's ahealth program for the poor. What I said was I would take theMedicaid dollars that are currently spent by the federal government,return them to the states so that states can craft their own programsto care for their own poor rather than having the federal governmentmandate a one-size-fits-all plan in the entire nation.
''Obamacare'' is wrong. I'll repeal it. I'll get it done.(Applause.)
REP. PAUL: John.
MR. HARWOOD: Congressman.
REP. PAUL: My plan of cutting the budget by a trillion dollarsdoes deal with Medicaid, and that is that it preserves it and there isa transition period, with the goal that eventually we would hope tomove that back into the economy. But right now it would be too muchto do it in one year. You know, finding a trillion dollars was a joband a half, and -- (inaudible) -- department.
So, yes, my budget takes into consideration health care for theelderly, health care on Medicaid, as well as child health care. Atthe same time, we deal with the bailouts, the banks and all thebenefits that they get from the financial system.
Because what we're facing today is a crisis -- on this housingcrisis, if I could just have one second on that. We face the housingcrisis once again because it's price fixing. They're fixing theprices of these mortgages too high, and this is why nobody will buythem. This is why you have to get rid of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac,sell all of that into the marketplace.
And the reason they do this is to prop up the banks, because thebanks have invested in Europe, they've invested in Fannie Mae andFreddie Mac and these credit default swaps.
They're in big trouble, and that is why they're getting bailed out,and that's why they're not allowing these mortgages to go down. Andthat is why we will most likely bail out Europe, which will be a realtragedy. (Applause.)
MR. HARWOOD: Congressman, it's -- thank you for that. It's timefor a quick break --
MR. LIESMAN: Hold it. John, I wanted to give them 15 secondseach to solve the deficit problem.
MS. BARTIROMO: (Laughs.) We'll come back to the deficit.
MR. HARWOOD: When we return, balancing the budget and cuttingthe deficit, making the college education more affordable.
MS. BARTIROMO: Plus, a little lesson on Social Security.
You're watching CNBC's ''Your Money, Your Vote'' Republicanpresidential debate. (Applause.)
(Announcements.)
MR. HARWOOD: And welcome back. Joining us for this portion ofthe debate, Rick Santelli, CNBC's on-air editor -- (cheers, applause) -- and Sharon Epperson, our personal finance correspondent.
Now, we'll get to them in a moment, but first, Senator Santorum,you were known as a tough partisan fighter in the Senate. But lookwhere partisan fighting got us this summer: gridlock and a debtrating downgrade. The American people don't much like it, and neitherdoes Doug Oberhelman, the CEO of Caterpillar. Let's take a listen.
DOUGLAS OBERHELMAN (CEO, Caterpillar Inc.): (From video.) Mostpeople think our politicians are not helping the country get back onits feet. The last two presidents made promises to work across partylines, and both failed.
How will you put our country ahead of your political party andsolve the issues that are so critical for Americans? Be specific,please -- these are promises.
MR. HARWOOD: And Senator, let me ask you about -- to set up thatquestion. If everyone on this stage rules out any tax increases, evenat a 10-to-1 ration of spending cuts, as you have done, what could youpossibly offer Democrats to get them to go along and compromise withyou on the things that Republicans want?
MR. SANTORUM: You create a -- you create a platform that theycan buy into, because they see the advantages of your -- of your plan.
For example, one of the reasons that I -- I put forward thismanufacturing plan is because folks here in Michigan, Democrats andRepublicans, will vote for it. I was at the New Hampshire House ofRepresentatives the other day and spoke to a bipartisan group, talkedabout the tax plan -- not just the manufacturing, but the broad-basedplan that I have.
And I had two Democratic house members go over to my chairman,Dan Tamburello, and said, hey, I want him to come to my district andtalk about this. We can support it.
So when you put together a plan -- look, if the RepublicanParty's just about keeping the top rate, you know, lower or cuttingtaxes, we're not going to be reaching people. We've got to look atplans that bring people together. That's why I've focused on thissector. I understand, John, that the Wall Street Journal won't likethat I'm picking one sector over another. I don't care.
What I need to do is bring America together, find a plan that canwork, that we -- can be implemented right away. It may not be theboldest plan in the world, but it's one that will work. It'll putpeople back to work. It'll give the ability to people to rise in oursociety. It'll help with the jobs out in rural America where themanufacturing loss has been the greatest and the employment (sic) rateis the highest.
You put a plan like that together, you'll get Democrats andRepublicans, and we'll create jobs in this country. We'll get thingsdone.
MR. HARWOOD: Governor Romney, you've shown that you can workwith Democrats. When you were governor, of course, you collaboratedwith Ted Kennedy on the health care plan that you enacted.
You raised fees to balance the budget and you used that as an argumentto get the credit rating of your state upgraded. Independent votersmight like that. Should Republican primary voters be nervous aboutit?
MR. ROMNEY: Thanks for reminding everybody. (Laughter.)
What I've found is, in a state like mine where there are a fewDemocrats in the legislature -- 85 percent of my legislature wasDemocrat. To get anything done, I was always in an ''away'' game, ifyou will. And to get something done, I had to see if there wereDemocrats who cared more about the state than they cared about theirreelection or their party. And there were.
And right now, America faces a crisis. I think people on bothsides of the aisle recognize that this is no longer a time just forworrying about the next election. This is a time to worry aboutAmerica.
We see what's happening in Italy, what's happening in Greece.That's where we're headed if we don't change our course. And thereare enough good Democrats and good Republicans willing to put asidepartisanship and do what's right for the country, in my view, ifthey're led by someone who cares more about the country, cares moreabout the future of America, cares about our kids and our grandkids,and is willing to step forward and lead.
What we have now is a president who, unfortunately, is driven byone thing: his reelection. It's unbelievable that we have the crisisgoing on in America that we have -- (applause) -- and we have apresident who is focused on trying to get himself reelected. This isa -- this is a crisis in America.
MR. HARWOOD: Time, Governor.
Governor Perry, you play only home games in Texas. Do you givehim points for winning on the road?
GOV. PERRY: Listen, there is a reason that Caterpillar movedtheir hydraulics manufacturing and their engine manufacturing to thestate of Texas. It didn't have anything to do with Republican versusDemocrat. It had everything to do with creating a climate in ourstate where the job creators knew that they were going to have theopportunity to keep more of what they work for.
MR. HARWOOD: He's said he did.
GOV. PERRY: And that's what Americans are looking for.(Scattered applause.) They're looking for a tax plan that basicallysays you're going to be able to keep more of what you work for.They're looking for a regulatory climate that doesn't strangle thelife out of their businesses when they want to put those dollars outthere to create the wealth.
That's what Americans are looking for.
I think we're getting all tangled up around an issue here aboutcan you work with Democrats or can you work with Republicans. Yeah,we can all do that. But the fact of the matter is, we better have aplan in place that Americans can get their hands around, and that'sthe reason my flat tax is the only one of all the folks -- these goodfolks on the stage. It balances the budget in 2020. It does thethings for the regulatory climate that has to happen.
And I will tell you, it's three agencies of government, when Iget there, that are gone: Commerce, Education and the -- what's thethird one there -- let's see. (Laughter.)
REP. PAUL: You need five.
GOV. PERRY: Oh, five. OK.
REP. PAUL: Make it five.
GOV. PERRY: OK. So Commerce, Education and -- the -- (pause) --
MR. ROMNEY: EPA?
GOV. PERRY: EPA. There you go. (Laughter.) (Applause.)
MS. BARTIROMO: Let's go --
MR: HARWOOD: Seriously? Is EPA the one you were talking about?
GOV. PERRY: No, sir. No, sir. We were talking about theagencies of government -- EPA needs to be rebuilt. There's no doubtabout that.
MR. HARWOOD: But you can't -- but you can't name the third one?
GOV. PERRY: The third agency of government.
MR. HARWOOD: Yes.
GOV. PERRY: I would do away with the Education, the Commerce and -- let's see -- I can't. The third one, I can't. Sorry. Oops.
MS. BARTIROMO: What about the EPA and the new rules coming outof the EPA? Mr. Cain, right now there is a situation with the EPA
getting aggressive, the National Labor Relations Board gettingaggressive, wanting to shut down a plant in South Carolina. Whatwould you tell Boeing to do?
MR. CAIN: What about --
MS. BARTIROMO: Should they shut down that plant in SouthCarolina unless they make it union?
MR. CAIN: Absolutely not. (Cheers, applause.) That's what'swrong with government (tampering ?). Absolutely not. (Applause.)The government has no business trying to pick winners and losers, aswe have said, whether it's through the front door with legislation orthe back door through regulation.
Now, if I may go back --
MR. HARWOOD: What about manufacturing? Zero tax rate for onesector of the economy.
MR. CAIN: Well, this is why my 9-9-9 plan -- (cheers, applause) -- makes every sector grow. How about helping everybody, not just onesector? And that's the power of my 9-9-9 plan. Number one, it'sbold. And yes, I'm the only one that's put a bold plan on the tableand not afraid to go out and defend it.
Now, as far as getting both sides of the aisle to work together -- if I may; I don't see that little yellow light yet -- (laughter) -- in terms of getting both sides to work together, it's called provide acompelling solution, and the American people, if they understand it,they will demand it. That's how you get both sides of the aisle towork together. (Applause.)
MS. BARTIROMO: Rick Santelli.
RICK SANTELLI (On-air editor, CNBC): Speaker Gingrich, for thefirst time in its 75-year history, Social Security is going to be inthe red. According to the Washington Post on October 29th, 105billion (dollars) this year. The reason: Political parties -- bothsides -- at the end of last year agreed that they wanted a tax cut.And the area they cut were payroll taxes, the main funding for SocialSecurity. If we continue that -- and there seems to be some agreementon both sides of the aisle to extend that tax cut -- for 2011 and2012, the cumulative amount will be closer to 260 billion (dollars).Are all tax cuts created equal? Is this a tax cut that you wouldback?
MR. GINGRICH: Well, I'm not prepared to raise taxes on workingAmericans in the middle of a recession that's this bad. (Applause.)But let -- but let me put Social Security in context. In 1968, inorder to fake a balanced budget, Lyndon Johnson brought SocialSecurity in the general budget. And ever since, politicians have hidbehind Social Security. Now it's going to become a disadvantage to doso.
I think the first step is you take Social Security off thefederal budget. You don't try to solve the budget deficit problem onthe back of working Americans and retirees.
You deal with Social Security as a free-standing issue. And the factis, if you allow younger Americans to have the choice to go to aGalveston or -- or Chilean-style personal Social Security savingsaccount, the long-term effect on Social Security is scored by theSocial Security actuary as absolutely stabilizing the system andtaking care of it.
The key is, there's 2 trillion (dollars), 400 billion dollars inSocial Security which -- be -- which should be off-budget, and nopresident of the United States should ever again say, because of somepolitical fight in Washington, I may not be able to send you yourcheck. That money is sitting there. That money's available. And thecountry ought to pay the debt it owes the people who put the money inthere. (Applause.)
MR. HARWOOD: Governor Romney, if I could follow up, SpeakerGingrich just said he's not prepared to raise taxes on the Americanpeople in the middle of a slow economy like this. That's what wouldhappen if the payroll tax cut is not extended. Does -- do you agreewith him? And would you also support, when it comes down to it, anextension of the payroll tax cut?
MR. ROMNEY: I want to -- I don't want to -- I don't want toraise taxes on people in the middle of a recession. Of course not.
MR. HARWOOD: So you're for it.
MR. ROMNEY: That's -- and that's one of the reasons why -- whywe fought so hard to make sure the Bush tax cuts weren't taken away by -- by President Obama.
But look, this issue of deficits and spending -- it's not aboutjust dollars and cents. This is a moral issue. It's a moralimperative. We can't continue to pass on massive debts to the nextgeneration. We can't continue to put at risk the -- the greatestnation in the history of the earth because of the profligate spendingthat's going on in Washington, D.C. And --
MR. HARWOOD: But to clarify, you agree with President Obama thepayroll tax cut should be extended?
MR. ROMNEY: I want to -- I want to keep our taxes down. I don'twant to raise any taxes anywhere. Let me -- I'm not looking to raisetaxes.
What I'm looking to do is to cut spending. And that's why thislast week I put out a plan that dramatically cuts spending inWashington, that gets us to a 20 percent cap and makes sure that wehave a balanced budget thereafter. And how do I do it? I have threemajor steps.
Number one, cut programs. Get rid of programs we don't have tohave, like ''Obamacare.'' Take a lot of programs that we have at thestate level, number two -- excuse me, at the federal level -- and sendthem back to the states where they can be better run with less fraudand abuse. And number three, finally, bring some productivity andmanagement expertise to the federal government. I would cut theworkforce by 10 percent --
MR. : Good.
MR. ROMNEY: -- and I want to say one more, and that is this. Iwant to make sure we link the compensation of our federal bureaucratsto that which exists in the private sector. People who are publicservants shouldn't get more money than the taxpayers that they'reserving. (Cheers, applause.)
MR. HARWOOD: Does any candidate on this stage disagree -- doesany candidate disagree and oppose extension of the payroll tax cut?
REP. BACHMANN: Say that again.
MR. HARWOOD: Does any candidate disagree with the speaker andGovernor Romney, and oppose the extension of the payroll tax cut?
MR. : Yeah.
MR. LIESMAN: Go ahead.
MR. HARWOOD: You oppose it?
REP. BACHMANN: I do. I opposed it when it was first proposed,because I knew that it would blow a hole of $111 billion in the SocialSecurity trust fund. President Obama clearly did this for politicalreasons. That's why he did it. And so I had made that warning then,because we actually have already run Social Security in the red. Wearen't just about to; we already have -- six years ahead of time.
Now, consider the context. We have Baby Boomers in their peakearning years. This is when money should be flooding into the SocialSecurity trust fund. Instead, we're already in the red. When we talkthis evening about how much trouble we're in with spending, we're in atremendous amount of trouble with spending. Just consider, we pay alot of taxes in this country: 2.2 trillion (dollars) is what we sendin to Washington. The problem is, we spent at the government level3.7 trillion (dollars). You started out trying to cut --
MR. HARWOOD: Well -- out of time, Congresswoman.
Rick?
MR. SANTELLI: Governor Huntsman, our federal government --
MR. HUNTSMAN: Thank you. It was getting a little lonely overhere. (Laughter.)
MR. SANTELLI: Our federal government still owns 500 millionshares of GM stock; guarantees trillions -- trillions with a ''T'' -- dollars of mortgages.
They are basically the lender doing 90 percent of all the mortgageorigination right now.
And you consider the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve haspurchased 2.62 trillion (dollars) -- again with a T -- of Treasurysecurities, agency securities and mortgage securities.
If you were president, how would your administration and wouldyour administration reverse these obligations?
MR. HUNTSMAN: I would clean up the balance sheet. And let metell you what I worry about as much as anything else. We talk aboutfailed leadership; we certainly have failed leadership. PresidentObama had three years to get this economy going and to move us towardan environment that speaks to job growth, and he's failed miserably.
But along with that, we have a real trust crisis in this countrybetween the American people and our institutions of power: Congress,the executive branch, Wall Street as well. There's no trust. We'rerunning on empty.
And when a democracy begins to run on empty because of governmentholdings and bailouts and being involved in ways that are absolutelyinappropriate based on constitutional government and where we shouldbe, that results in a diminution of trust by the American people.We've got to raise that trust.
So let me just tell you what I think needs to be done in terms ofbringing our economy up. We've heard about all these great tax plans.I think I'm the only one on this stage who's actually delivered a flattax. And I did that as governor of my state. I put forward aproposal that I think is right for this country in getting it back onits feet. The Wall Street Journal has come out -- the most respectededitorial page economically maybe in the entire world -- has come outand endorsed my plan, said it's the very best of the bunch.
And it very simply calls out, just as I did as governor -- so I'mnot sitting here talking about academic theory. I stand here as apractitioner; I've done it before.
I want to phase out the loopholes and the deductions on the individualside, phase out corporate welfare and subsidies on the corporate side --
MS. BARTIROMO: Sharon Epperson.
MR. HUNTSMAN: -- and lower the rates, make us more competitive.That's the kind of work that is realistic. It can get done inCongress and fire the engines of growth that are so desperately neededto boost trust in this country. (Applause.)
MS. BARTIROMO: Sharon Epperson.
SHARON EPPERSON (personal finance correspondent, CNBC): I wantto turn the attention to why we're here on this campus and what manystudents are very interested in, and that is the fact that,Congressman Paul, right now we are looking at student loan debt thatis near $1 trillion. Americans owe more on student loans right nowthan credit cards, and the average debt for a college senior right nowis over $25,000. It's obviously a very hot topic right here on thiscampus and with students across the country. Just listen to what theyhave to say.
(Video begins.)
MR. : Tuition rates have increased roughly three times thatof inflation over the last three decades.
MS. : More students have to take out loans or forgo college.
MS. : My generation is graduating with student debt levels atan unprecedented level.
(Video ends.)
MS. EPPERSON: So Congressman Paul, you've already talked aboutthe fact that you want to get rid of the Department of Education.You've said that you want to get rid of federal student loans. So howwould you make college more accessible, more affordable for thesestudents and students around the country?
REP. PAUL: Well, I think you've proved that the policy ofstudent loans is a total failure. (Chuckles.) I mean, a trilliondollars of debt? (Cheers, applause.) And it's going to be dumped on
the taxpayer? And what have they gotten? A poorer education andcosts that have skyrocketed because of inflation. And they don't havejobs. There's nothing more dramatically failing than -- than thatprogram.
So no, there is no authority in the Constitution for the federalgovernment to be dealing with education. We should get rid of theloan programs. We should get rid of the Department of Education andgive tax credits, if you have to, to help people. But the inflationis the big problem. It's three times the rate that the governmentadmits that inflation is, and that is natural and normal.
When governments inflate the currency, it goes in the areas that thegovernment gets involved in. Housing, high -- (inaudible). Stockmarket, skyrocketing prices. Medical care, skyrocketing. Education --
MS. EPPERSON: But how will they pay for it? How do they now payfor college if they're not --
REP. PAUL: The way you pay for cell phones and computers.(Cheers, applause.) You have the marketplace there. There'scompetition. Quality goes up; the price goes down. Can you imaginewhat it would have been like if the Department of Homeland securitywas in charge of finding one person -- or one company to make the cellphones? I mean, it would have been a total disaster.
So when the government gets involved in the delivery of anyservice, whether it's education, medical care or housing, they causehigher prices, lower quality, create bubbles, and they get us thismess that we're in. That's why we have to eventually get -- we haveto wise up and look at where the bubbles come from. It's from theFederal Reserve. And we should start by auditing the Fed, and then weshould end the Fed. (Cheers, applause.)
MS. EPPERSON: Thank you, Congressman.
Speaker Gingrich, Congressman Paul just talked about a bubble.And there are many that are concerned that unlike other types of debt,student loan debt does not have the same type of consumer protections.It cannot be wiped out in bankruptcy, by law. There's really littleway to refinance it. Are you worried about student loan debt becomingthe next government bailout?
MR. GINGRICH: You know, this is a good place to talk about thescale of change we're about to live through. We're at the end of thewelfare-state era of dependency, debt, distortion and dishonesty. Thestudent loan program began -- when Lyndon Johnson announced it, Ithink it was a $15 million program. It's an absurdity.
What does it do? It expands the ability of students to stay incollege longer because they don't see the cost. It actually meansthey take fewer hours per semester, on average; it takes longer forthem to get through school; it allows them to tolerate tuitions goingup absurdly. By 2014, there will be one administrator for everyteacher on college campuses in the United States.
Now let me give you a contrast that's very startling. TheCollege in (sic) the Ozarks is a work-study college. You cannot applyto it unless you need student aid, and they have no student aid. Youhave to work 20 hours a week during the year to pay tuition and books.You work 40 hours a week during the summer to pay for room and board.Ninety-two percent of the students graduate owing no debt. The 8percent who owe debt owe $5,000 because they bought a car.
Now, that is a model so different it will be culture shock forthe students of America to learn we actually expect them to go toclass, study, get out quickly, charge as little as possible, andemerge debt-free by doing the right things for four years. (Cheers,applause.)
MS. BARTIROMO: Governor Perry -- Governor Perry, name the topprograms that you would cut in terms of long-term deficit reduction.Include Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security and defense spending inthe order you see fit.
GOV. PERRY: Well, every one of those -- and by the way, that wasthe Department of Energy I was reaching for a while ago. So -- (laughter, cheers, applause).
Here's what we have to look at as Americans, and it's theentitlement programs that are eating up this huge amount of moneythat's out there. And it's also the spending, Congressman Paul. Andthose -- when you look at Medicaid, Medicare, Social Security, andthose unfunded liabilities I think are over $115 trillion just inthose three programs. Those are the places where you go where youhave to make the really hard decisions in this country. Those are the --
MS. BARTIROMO: So what is your order? And you didn't mentiondefense spending.
GOV. PERRY: Well, obviously Social Security is one of thosewhere we either can go to a blended type of a program where we blendprice and wages and come up with a program and can save billions ofdollars there. But the people who are on Social Security, they needto understand something today.
It's going to be there for them. Those that are working their waytowards Social Security, we've made a pledge to them that thoseindividuals are going to have those dollars there for them.
But the young people out there -- who's going to stand up for theyoung people in this country, those that are at the workforce today,and stand up and say: We're going to transform this program so it'sgoing to be there for you?
MR. HARWOOD: Well, Governor --
GOV. PERRY: I will do that. I will stand up for the youngpeople in this country and put a program into place that will be therefor them. (Applause.)
MR. HARWOOD: Speaking of young people, quick answer: Do youagree with Congressman Paul that we should kill the federal studentloan program?
GOV. PERRY: I happen to think there are a substantial number ofways -- matter of fact, I've called for a $10,000 (graduate ?) program --
MR. HARWOOD: But would you kill the federal student loanprogram?
GOV. PERRY: I don't think the federal government should be inthe business of paying for programs and building up huge debt outthere. I think we need to look at how do you force these universities --
MR. HARWOOD: So get rid of them.
GOV. PERRY: -- how do force these universities to be efficient?And one of the ways is that the governors who appoint the -- the -- the trustees -- they step in and they basically say: Listen, you aregoing to have graduation rates that are moving upwards. You're goingto have tuition that is moving down. You have to have control overthose boards of regents, if that's how you do it, or the legislaturehas to have control.
But the bottom line is, we have to put powerful economic forcesinto place. And one of those is using our technology.
MR. HARWOOD: Thank you, Governor.
GOV. PERRY: We have to let our kids have the opportunity to getan education -- through long-distance learning, for instance.
MS. BARTIROMO: That's time.
MR. HARWOOD: Thank you, Governor.
MS. BARTIROMO: We're going to take one more quick break. Whenwe return: final questions to the candidates.
MR. HARWOOD: Our CNBC Republican presidential debate will beright back. (Applause.)
(Announcements.)
MS. BARTIROMO: Welcome back to CNBC's Republican presidentialdebate.
MR. HARWOOD: Mr. Cain, I want to ask you a question. Under aRepublican governor, the state of California hired a company in Chinato build major portions of the new San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge;created thousands of jobs in China. And California did that becauseit was cheaper. Is that smart purchasing by government in a globaleconomy, or is there something wrong with that?
MR. CAIN: There's something wrong with that, which is why I haveproposed a bold plan -- (laughter) -- 9-9-9 -- and allow me to explainhow, under 9-9-9, that that company would be more inclined to keep thebusiness here.
On the first nine, you take sales minus purchases, net exportsand capital. It levels the playing field between goods produced herein the United States and the rest of the world. It makes the UnitedStates much more competitive, and businesses won't be tempted to buildoverseas, send jobs overseas.
The tax code is what sends jobs overseas. The tax code is whatcaused them to buy those articles from the Chinese. It starts withreplacing the tax code.
MR. HARWOOD: Governor Romney, was it a mistake for GovernorSchwarzenegger to hire the firm in China to build portions of thatbridge?
MR. ROMNEY: Well, that's a -- a long answer to that because what -- what China is doing is not playing fairly by the -- the rules thatexist in our -- in the WTO and in the world. China is, on almostevery dimension, cheating. And we got to recognize that. (Applause.)It is good for America -- it -- it is good for America to have freetrade. It is good for us to be able to send our goods and servicesaround the world and vice versa.
MR. HARWOOD: So a good decision to build the bridge over the --
MR. ROMNEY: That -- that is -- that is normally a good thing.But China is playing by different rules. One, they're stealingintellectual property. Number two, they're hacking into our computersystems, both government and corporate, and they're stealing by virtueof that as well from us. And finally, they're manipulating theircurrency and, by doing so, holding down the price of Chinese goods andmaking sure their products are artificially lowly -- low-priced. It'spredatory pricing. It's killing jobs in America. If I'm president ofthe United States, I'm making it very clear: I love free trade; Iwant to open markets to free trade, but I will crack down on cheaterslike China. They simply cannot continue to steal our jobs. (Cheers,applause.)
MS. BARTIROMO: How do you crack down? How do you crack down,Governor? Are you -- are you talking about new tariffs? How are youcracking down?
MR. ROMNEY: I'm sorry? Pardon?
MS. BARTIROMO: How would you crack down on China?
MR. ROMNEY: Well, number one, I would do something thispresident should have done a long time ago, which is to label China acurrency manipulator. And then I'd bring an action at the WTO levelcharging them with being a -- a currency manipulator. Number three,where they have stolen intellectual property, where they have hackedinto computers and where their artificial pricing is causing theirgoods to have predatory levels of pricing, I would apply, ifnecessary, tariffs to make sure that they understand we're willing toplay on a level playing field. We want -- we have to have free trade.That's essential for the -- the -- the functioning of a strongeconomy. But we cannot allow one nation to continue to flaunt therules and kill our jobs by allowing them to continue as they have.(Applause.)
MS. BARTIROMO: Speaker, in addition to that, so many companies -- multinational companies want to try to get a foothold in China andsell to the billion and a half people there. They can only do jointventures. They are not getting a fair shake in terms of selling tothat 1 1/2 billion-person population.
How would you move the needle?
MR. GINGRICH: There are two things here, and let me say inadvance that I would yield in part to Governor Huntsman because hespeaks fluent Chinese, he's worked in China, and he's been theambassador. And I'd be curious to get his reaction.
But there are two different parts here. The problem withbuilding the bridge is simple. What is it about American regulations,American taxation, American labor costs and attitudes that makes itcheaper to go to China than to go to the United States? (Applause.)
Now we do it -- (see ?), first of all, you've got to decide, howare we going to be more competitive and how are we going to be thelowest cost? And there's a -- there's a new Boston consulting studythat says by 2015 South Carolina and Alabama will be cheaper than theChinese coastal provinces to manufacture in.
Second, in terms of dealing with China strategically, I thinkwe're going to have to find ways to dramatically raise the pain levelfor the Chinese cheating, both in the hacking side but also on thestealing and intellectual property side. And I don't think anybodytoday has a particularly good strategy for doing that.
MS. BARTIROMO: Time -- 30 seconds. Jon Huntsman, you were theambassador to China. 30 seconds to respond.
MR. HUNTSMAN: Thirty seconds! For heaven's sake. (Laughter.)Let me just say that we've had a 40-year relationship with China.It's a -- it's a troublesome and problematic relationship; very, verycomplicated. But the bottom line is -- I mean, you can give applauselines and you can kind of pander here and there. You start a tradewar if you start slapping tariffs randomly on Chinese products basedupon currency manipulation. I -- that's not a good idea.
But longer term, we're just going to have to do business the waywe've always done. You sit down, you find solutions to the problems,and you move forward. It isn't easy, it isn't glamorous. It'sgrinding it out the way we've done it for 40 years. And for 40 moreyears, we're going to have to do it the same way.
MR. HARWOOD: Are you saying Governor Romney's pandering?
MR. HUNTSMAN: I'm saying that you can throw out applause linesand you can say that you're going to slap on tariffs. You know, thatdoesn't work -- (inaudible) --
MR. HARWOOD: But you're suggesting it. He's standing righthere.
Would you say that he's pandering on this issue?
MR. HUNTSMAN: Well, I've said it before; I think that thatpolicy is one of simply pandering, just throwing a tariff on for thesake of an artificially valued currency, which is, in fact, the case.
But here's what they do in response. They say: You have anartificially valued currency too, with those quantitative easingprograms, you too are manipulating your currency, and we're going toslap something on your products. And before long, you have a tradewar. (Applause.)
But let me tell you --
MR. HARWOOD: Governor Romney, are you pandering?
MR. ROMNEY: Look, I've been in business all my life, 25 years.I consulted to businesses around the world. I've been in businesswhere we competed around the world. I understand free trade. I likefree trade. I know that America can compete with anyone in the world.Newt is right about our capacity to manufacture and compete heads-onversus the Chinese.
But I've also seen predatory pricing. I've seen people pricetheir goods at an artificial level for an extended period of time suchthat they can drive other people out of business. And then when theother people are out of business, they can raise their prices. That'swhat China's doing by holding down the value of their currency.
Let the currencies float. If the U.S. currency, for instance, isbeing inflated, let it float. Let us float. Let us have a marketmechanism determine the value of our respective currencies, as opposedto the Chinese government continuing to put an advantage there fortheir producers. This is no longer a time for us just to sit back andsay we're going to let them steal our jobs.
MS. BARTIROMO: Congresswoman Bachmann, weigh in here. How doyou open the markets in China for American companies?
REP. BACHMANN: Well, the Chinese have been bad actors. Recentlywe've found out that they've dumped counterfeit computer chips here inthe United States. We're using some of those counterfeit computerchips in the Pentagon in some of our weapon systems. This hasnational security implications.
We also found out that the Chinese just finished building 3,000miles of underground tunnels where they're housing some nuclearweapons. There's some very real consequences to the United Statesoverspending to such an extent that we're in hock to them over atrillion dollars.
We've sent so much interest money over to the Chinese to pay our debtsoff that we effectively built their aircraft carrier. And by 2015, wewill be sending so much interest money over, we will be paying for theentire People's Liberation Army of China, the number-one employer ofthe -- of the world.
What we need to do is stop enriching China with our money. Andwe do that by stop borrowing from them, by stop spending money that wedon't have. (Applause.)
MR. CRAMER: Mr. Cain, I want to go to you with this question.This does not lend itself to 9-9-9 or any other number, OK?
MR. CAIN: I'm sorry, I didn't hear the first part.
MR. CRAMER: This question does not lend itself to 9-9-9 or anyother (thing ?). This is our final word, OK? And it comes from ourviewers. And it is all about restoring trust and faith in our marketsand in our way of life.
I'm going to be quoting Joanne Kornbleat (ph). She emails us;she says: Our stock market has turned into a casino, with high-frequency computerized trading comprising 70 percent of alltransactions, and hedge-fund speculation resulting in volatile marketswings. Before privatizing Social Security, how would you make thestock market safer for individual investors?
And Mr. Cain -- just simple -- how do we restore faith in themarkets for the little guy?
MR. CAIN: The first thing we do is restore faith in business byproviding certainty so businesses can grow. A lot of the volatilityis being driven by uncertainty. Businesses are uncertain about whatthe health care rules are going to be. They don't know what the taxrules are going to be. All of the uncertainty has this economystagnated. So the way you restore that: Grow this economy.
That's job one. Many of the things we talked about up here todaystarts with growing the economy. And that's why we've got to use abold plan -- I won't mention it -- (laughter) -- in order to grow theeconomy. (Laughter, applause.)
MR. CRAMER: But when the economy was growing great, sir, therewas no trust. You know, when the economy going great, people weregetting ripped off, and there was insider trading. When the economywas going great, people were getting hurt in the stock market.
Forget the economy.
MR. CAIN: Jim --
MR. CRAMER: Talk about the way the market's regulated.
MR. CAIN: Jim, Jim, Jim, I -- I feel your pain. Look, here'swhat I'm saying. Here's --
MR. CRAMER: It (isn't a feeling ?). (How about ?) the 90million people who've got money in the market -- (inaudible)?
MR. CAIN: No, Jim, you got to provide certainty in the -- you -- in this environment, so businesses will grow. They have been in amode of survive. They need to be in a mode of grow. That's what wegot to do first.
And I agree with some of the others who said we got to repealDodd-Frank. There's three big things wrong with Dodd-Frank, which iswhy it needs to be a top priority to repeal. Number one, it doesn'tprovide oversight for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and we all agreedthat that was the catalyst for the meltdown in 2008.
The two other biggest problems with Dodd-Frank: Dodd and Frank.(Laughter, cheers, applause.)
MS. BARTIROMO: Governor Perry, Governor Perry, same question toyou -- same question to you and Congressman Ron Paul: How do yourestore faith in the public markets?
GOV. PERRY: Well, we have the regulations in place and we hadthe regulations in place well before the meltdowns occurred. We havea culture in Washington, D.C., where these corporate lobbyists havethese cozy relationships with the people that they're regulating. And
-- and we have to have leadership in this country that not onlyrecognizes that but demands that those individuals who are working forus are in those agencies, whether it's in the stock market or whetherit's at -- at Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, and when there areindividuals who are breaking the laws, who are pushing the bounds,that there are clear efforts that are made to take those people eitherout of those jobs or prosecute them for criminality, one of the two.
That has to happen. And then -- and you can pass legislation, likeyou said, until the world looks level. But you've got to have men andwomen who are committed to the laws of this country and a presidentthat will push his administration to make sure that they're done.(Applause.)
MR. HARWOOD: Congressman Paul, Governor Perry was just talkingabout the culture of Washington. His critics in the state of Texas -- you're a congressman from Texas -- say crony capitalism is what he'spracticed as governor. Are they right?
REP. PAUL: I haven't analyzed it well enough to call him a cronyor not. So no, I -- I -- I -- I don't know the details of that. Butthere is a lot of crony capitalism going on in this country. And thathas to be distinguished from real capitalism because that's -- thisoccupation stuff on Wall Street -- if you're -- if you're going aftercrony capitalism, I'm all for it. And those are the people whobenefit from contracts from government, benefits from the FederalReserve, benefits from all the bailouts. They don't deservecompassion. They deserve taxation, or they don't -- they deserve tohave all their benefits removed.
But crony capitalism isn't when somebody makes money and theyproduce a product. That is very important. We have to distinguishthe two. And unfortunately, I think some people mix that. But this,to me, is so vital that we recognize what crony -- what capitalism isversus crony capitalism. And believe me, when you have aninflationary environment and all this speculation and all thatbailouts do to the monetary system, believe me, you'd get a majorityof them (to ?) crony capitalism. And that's why we're facing thiscrisis today. (Applause.)
MS. BARTIROMO: We want to thank all of you tonight. That is allthe time we have for CNBC's Republican presidential debate. We thankall of the candidates for being here tonight and spending the time andputting their plans forward. We hope you now have a betterunderstanding of where each of them stand on the economy, jobs andyour money.
MR. HARWOOD: We'd also like to thank our partners, the MichiganRepublican Party, and all of the Grizzlies of Oakland University. (Cheers, applause.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); POLITICAL DEBATES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (86%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%)

PERSON: MARIA BARTIROMO (89%); JIM CRAMER (88%); HERMAN CAIN (78%); RICK PERRY (73%); MICHELE BACHMANN (73%); JON HUNTSMAN (58%); MITT ROMNEY (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); RON PAUL (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



451 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Recall Election Claims Arizona Anti-Immigration Champion

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY and KATHARINE Q. SEELYE; Marc Lacey reported from Mesa, and Katharine Q. Seelye from New York. Salvador Rodriguez contributed reporting from Phoenix.

 BODY:
MESA, Ariz. -- For years, Russell Pearce, Arizona's most powerful legislator and the architect of its tough immigration law, has sought to make life so uncomfortable for illegal immigrants in the state that they pack up and go.
But Mr. Pearce, known for his gruff, uncompromising manner, was the one sent packing on Tuesday after disgruntled voters in this suburban neighborhood outside Phoenix banded together to recall him from the State Senate and replace him with a more moderate Republican.
''I'm grateful for the battles that we've won,'' said Mr. Pearce as election results showed his opponent, the first-time candidate Jerry Lewis, ousting him from office late Tuesday night. ''If being recalled is the price for keeping one's promises, then so be it.''
Latino advocates saw Mr. Pearce's defeat, 53 percent to 45 percent, with some ballots still to be tallied, as a sign that Republican politicians like Mr. Pearce were pushing too far with their get-tough approach to illegal immigration and that there were consequences if they did not get in sync with voter concerns. 
''This is a game-changer for Arizona, politically speaking,'' said Representative Raul Grijalva, Democrat of Tucson. ''He's been the author of so much of what's been going on in this state. He's used race and division to get elected, and now he's gone.''
Some of his Republican colleagues, though, predicted that Mr. Pearce, given his hard-charging ways and the backing of the Tea Party movement, would find a way to return to politics -- and that there were plenty of others, from Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County to Gov. Jan Brewer, who would press immigration in his absence.
''I'm not going to stop,'' said Mr. Arpaio, who is known for his immigration raids and who was commiserating with Mr. Pearce, a longtime ally, on Tuesday night. ''I'm going to do more.''
Mr. Pearce had been a sheriff's deputy for 23 years before his election to the State Legislature in 2000, and his recent unpopularity was partly a result of his brusque demeanor, which resembled that of an annoyed beat cop during a traffic stop. But voters in east Mesa, a conservative, blue-collar district, also complained that he was consumed with one issue above all else.
One of his sons, a sheriff's deputy at the time, was shot by an illegal immigrant, and Mr. Pearce argued that the state was being overrun by outlaws without papers. He was behind a 2004 ballot measure that required proof of legal residency for those receiving state services or voting. He championed a 2007 law that allowed the state to take the business licenses of firms that hired illegal immigrants.
But he became best known for his 2010 law, known as Senate Bill 1070, that would have, if a federal judge had not intervened, turned police officers throughout the state into de facto immigration agents. Despite fierce controversy, the law was popular in Arizona and beyond, and gave rise to copycat legislation in other states, including an even more stringent version in Alabama.
''We are in the front of the parade,'' Mr. Pearce is fond of saying.
It was Mr. Pearce's follow-up to the 2010 law that got him in trouble. This year, he drafted a proposal to compel medical personnel to question patients about their immigration status and school officials to do the same with students. He also championed stripping the citizenship of children born in the Arizona to illegal immigrants.
Arizona's business community, stung by boycotts of the state after passage of the 2010 law, rose up against Mr. Pearce. Some of his Republican colleagues withheld their support, which Mr. Pearce considered betrayal. He also saw some of his initiatives vetoed by Ms. Brewer, who had her differences with Mr. Pearce, especially given his comments that it was her support for his proposals that propelled her to victory last November.
''He engaged in a bullying type of politics,'' said Randy Parraz, a Democrat who founded Citizens for a Better Arizona, the group that organized the campaign against Mr. Pearce.
During the campaign, backers of Mr. Pearce helped a Mexican immigrant, Olivia Cortes, put her name on the ballot to siphon votes away from Mr. Lewis, but the tactic appeared to backfire.
Many of those who supported the ouster of Mr. Pearce had been his supporters in past elections.
''I'm a sort of redneck conservative, but for me he just went way too far on immigration,'' said Tyler Montague, who like Mr. Pearce and Mr. Lewis is a member of Mesa's influential Mormon Church. ''I agree that we can't have everyone from the third world coming here, but it began to feel like he hated these people, and I don't. They go to our churches. I know some of them.''
Mr. Lewis, a charter school executive who is fluent in Spanish, said he would be more amenable to compromise, on immigration and everything else, than the man he is replacing.
''What this says is that people, wherever they are, want their politicians to be responsive to them and listen to them and react when they say, 'You may be going too far,' '' Mr. Lewis said.
Despite tossing Mr. Pearce out of office, voters elsewhere showed little inclination to get rid of incumbents. Several big-city mayors were re-elected, even though most cities have been especially burdened by the sour economy.
In Houston, Mayor Annise Parker overcame low approval ratings and anti-gay attacks to hold on to office, but just barely. Ms. Parker, a lesbian, won with about 51 percent of the vote against five challengers. Mayors in Philadelphia, Baltimore and Indianapolis coasted to re-election.
In San Francisco, Edwin M. Lee, the interim mayor, became the city's first elected Chinese-American mayor, according to unofficial results Wednesday. The city is one-quarter ethnic Chinese and has the country's oldest Chinatown.
In Iowa, Republicans failed to win control of the State Senate.
In Virginia, the Republican drive to take over that state's Senate -- and thereby take complete control of the state government -- was teetering on the brink. In one district, the Republican candidate held an edge of just 86 votes, which will almost certainly lead to a recount that could take weeks. If the Republican wins, control of the Senate will be split in a 20-20 tie with Democrats. The lieutenant governor -- a Republican -- can cast tie-breaking votes, but his party had hoped to come away with a cleaner victory.
In Mississippi, about 60 percent of voters rejected the ''personhood'' amendment that would have banned all abortions and some forms of contraception.
Mississippi voters overwhelmingly approved a measure to require that prospective voters obtain a government-issued photo identification card if they do not have a driver's license or passport. The ID card will be free, but critics say the measure is still onerous because it will likely require voters to produce a birth certificate and Social Security card to obtain the new card.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Russell Pearce, far left, was recalled from the State Senate on Tuesday, losing to another Republican, Jerry Lewis, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SHERIFFS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (76%); REFERENDUMS (76%); BALLOTS (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); SUBURBS (56%)

PERSON: JERRY LEWIS (73%); RAUL M GRIJALVA (58%); JAN BREWER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (89%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



452 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1812 words

HEADLINE: 'Oops' at Debate When Perry Can't Get to Three

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and ASHLEY PARKER; Nicholas Confessore contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
ROCHESTER, Mich. -- A day after an embarrassing stumble raised new questions about his presidential candidacy, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas said Thursday that he had no intention of leaving the race, and he tried using humor to deflect a fresh round of stinging Republican criticism.
''You bet I'm going to continue on,'' Mr. Perry said in an interview on NBC's ''Today.'' He added, ''Going through that long list of government agencies is really what this campaign's all about. I'm human like everyone else.''
As Mr. Perry sought to reassure his supporters and contributors, his campaign tried to turn his mind lapse at a Republican presidential debate into an opportunity. He struggled to name the three agencies of government that he would like to eliminate, so he started a contest on his Web site, asking: ''What part of the federal government would you like to forget about the most?''
''This campaign is about ideas,'' Mr. Perry said. ''It's not about who's the slickest debater or whether anyone's made a mistake or not. We're all going to make mistakes.'' 
Mr. Perry arrived at the Republican presidential debate here on Wednesday night on a mission to get his candidacy back on track. He left Michigan on Thursday morning facing a new burden of trying to prove to Republicans that he remains a top-tier candidate.
The first hour of the debate passed without incident. The second did not. He declared that he planned to eliminate three government agencies in Washington. But as he began to explain, he could think of only two.
''Commerce, Education,'' Mr. Perry said before pausing for an uncomfortable moment as he looked from side to side, counting on his fingers and flipping through his notes. As his rivals volunteered suggestions, a moderator asked Mr. Perry if he could name the third agency.
''The third one, I can't,'' he finally said, a sad look on his face, after 53 seconds had gone by. ''Sorry. Oops.''
For any other candidate, the moment may have been quickly forgotten or easily explained. But for Mr. Perry, whose candidacy has been consistently undercut by his debate performances, the gravity of the matter grew obvious as chuckles in the Republican audience turned to gasps. The lapse reinforced negative stereotypes about his candidacy, a point that was made clear after the debate when he made a rare trip into an adjoining room to face reporters and try to brush away what had happened.
''I'm glad I had my boots on tonight,'' Mr. Perry said, ''because I sure stepped in it out there.''
Supporters of Mr. Perry groaned, with one contributor saying by e-mail: ''It's over, isn't it?'' One of his rivals, Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota, offered pity, declaring: ''We all feel very badly for him.'' And Republican operatives almost uniformly declared it as a sign of great trouble for his candidacy, with Mark McKinnon, an aide to former President George W. Bush, describing the moment as the ''human equivalent of shuttle Challenger.''
''I think the biggest question now is whether or not he can raise any more real money,'' said Mike Murphy, a Republican strategist. ''A donor strike will totally cripple what's left of his campaign.''
It remains an open question whether Mr. Perry will be able to move beyond the moment, particularly given that the video was already looping around the Internet and television broadcasts. But his path to the presidential nomination grew more difficult, and his rivals began furiously working to present themselves as the best alternative to Mitt Romney.
The lapse by Mr. Perry was the most memorable of a two-hour debate on CNBC that was otherwise dominated by polite exchanges over economic policy. It was not until several minutes later, when he received another turn, that he explained himself, saying: ''By the way, that was the Department of Energy I was reaching for a while ago.''
It was clearly a blow to Mr. Perry just as he was investing heavily in reintroducing himself to voters in Iowa and New Hampshire through television advertising. It could be weeks before it is clear whether it has a permanent effect on his campaign, but at a minimum it left him facing additional questions about his candidacy.
''It was a political death knell,'' said Sara Taylor Fagen, a Republican strategist who advised Mr. Bush. ''There's just no recovering from a moment like that when you've had such a bad record of debates.''
It was notable that Mr. Romney, who had aggressively tangled with Mr. Perry at the last debate, on Oct. 18, did not see a reason to confront him on Wednesday night.
In fact, all of the candidates seemed intent on trying to move beyond the distractions and quarreling that have dominated the campaign in recent weeks. They presented a unified front against government bailouts and offered sharp criticism of how President Obama has handled the economy, but repeatedly declined to challenge one another.
The sexual harassment accusations against Herman Cain, which have been hanging over his candidacy for the last 10 days, were raised only once during the debate. As a moderator asked him about the importance of character in presidential candidates, the audience jeered.
''The American people deserve better than someone being tried in the court of public opinion based on unfounded accusations,'' Mr. Cain said, drawing enthusiastic applause from the Republican crowd. ''I value my character and my integrity more than anything else.''
The accusations stem from Mr. Cain's time as chief of the National Restaurant Association. And when Mr. Romney was asked whether he, as a businessman, would have allowed Mr. Cain to remain as a chief executive officer in light of them, the audience hissed at the question. Mr. Romney paused and waited for the commotion to quiet.
''Herman Cain is the person to respond to these accusations,'' Mr. Romney said. ''He just did. And the people in this room and around the country can make their own determination.''
With that brief exchange, the candidates moved back to a wide-ranging economic conversation. They drew few distinctions with one another as they embraced Republican orthodoxy -- less government intervention and more reliance on markets -- while addressing bank bailouts, the nation's tax structure and declining home values.
The candidates gathered at Oakland University, north of Detroit, for the ninth presidential debate of the year. It was the first time they had appeared together since the campaign was shaken by the accusations against Mr. Cain, who has denied them.
Two women have stepped forward publicly and accused him of making inappropriate advances in the late 1990s. He has maintained he is innocent, but has struggled to resolve questions about the allegations.
The Republican nominating contest has been essentially frozen in place, with Mr. Romney and Mr. Cain showing the most strength in national and state polls. Yet Mr. Romney had come into the debate believing that his biggest rival was Mr. Perry. His advisers said they believed a new leading rival could now emerge.
Mr. Romney stuck to fielding questions about economic policy and said voters need not worry that he would shift his positions because of politics.
''I think people understand that I'm a man of steadiness and constancy,'' Mr. Romney said, before rattling off a list of his steadfast credentials -- his 42-year marriage to his high school sweetheart, his lifelong church membership, his 25 years spent at the same company.
There was lots of agreement among the candidates, a striking departure from the slugfests that had broken out in recent debates.
As Mr. Perry agreed with former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania on the need for more energy exploration, Mr. Romney agreed with Representative Ron Paul of Texas on bringing more market forces to bear on the health care industry. And former Speaker Newt Gingrich repeatedly quarreled with moderators and defended his colleagues' efforts to answer a question about what they would do to fix the health care system if they succeeded in repealing Mr. Obama's health care program.
''My colleagues have done a terrific job answering an absurd question,'' Mr. Gingrich said.
On a day when the stock market plummeted amid fears that Greek and Italian debt might bring European financial institutions to collapse, the candidates each rejected the idea that the United States should intervene to help, arguing that American taxpayers should not be responsible for the missteps of foreign countries and companies and that the bailout of banks at the end of the Bush administration, along with additional bailouts in the Obama administration, amounted to government overreach.
The nation's hurting economy, along with the deep financial uncertainty in Europe, provided a backdrop for the first debate of the season to be held in the industrial Midwest. All of the candidates -- the eighth was Jon M. Huntsman Jr. , the former governor of Utah -- expressed their opposition to the government loans that ultimately saved Chrysler and General Motors.
Gov. Rick Snyder of Michigan, a Republican, said in an interview before the debate that the candidates had spent too much time criticizing the rescue.
''Don't waste all our time on the auto bailout,'' he said. ''Let's talk about how we are going to create the jobs for tomorrow.''
'What's the Third One There?': AtWednesday's debate, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas said three federal agencies should be eliminated, but could name only two in an exchange with Representative Ron Paul, Mitt Romney and the debate moderators John Harwood and Maria Bartiromo. MR. PERRY And I will tell you, it's three agencies of government, when I get there, that are gone: Commerce, Education and the -- what's the third one there? Let's see. (Laughter) MR. PAUL You need five. MR. PERRY Oh, five. O.K. MR. PAUL Make it five. MR. PERRY O.K. So Commerce, Education and -- the -- MR. ROMNEY E.P.A.? MR. PERRY E.P.A. There you go. (Laughter and applause) MS. BARTIROMO Let's go -- MR. HARWOOD Seriously? Is E.P.A. the one you were talking about? MR. PERRY No, sir. No, sir. We were talking about the agencies of government -- E.P.A. needs to be rebuilt. There's no doubt about that. MR. HARWOOD But you can't -- but you can't name the third one? MR. PERRY The third agency of government. MR. HARWOOD Yes. MR. PERRY I would do away with the Education, the Commerce and -- let's see -- I can't. The third one, I can't. Sorry. Oops.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 12, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article in some editions on Thursday about the Republican presidential debate on Wednesday night in Rochester, Mich., referred incorrectly in some copies to bank bailouts that were cited as an example of the government's overreaching. The original bank bailout plan was proposed and put in place by the Bush administration, not by the Obama White House.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Rick Perry, left, could remember only two of the federal agencies he wanted to eliminate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF KOWALSKY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A1)
 When Gov. Rick Perry, left, failed to come up with the third federal agency that he would eliminate, Representative Ron Paul suggested that he should cut five. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK BLINCH/REUTERS) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (94%); RON PAUL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



453 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Girls Just Want to Go To School

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
THU THUA, Vietnam
Sometimes you see your own country more sharply from a distance. That's how I felt as I dropped in on a shack in this remote area of the Mekong Delta in Vietnam.
The head of the impoverished household during the week is a malnourished 14-year-old girl, Dao Ngoc Phung. She's tiny, standing just 4 feet 11 inches and weighing 97 pounds.
Yet if Phung is achingly fragile, she's also breathtakingly strong. You appreciate the challenges that America faces in global competitiveness when you learn that Phung is so obsessed with schoolwork that she sets her alarm for 3 a.m. each day. 
She rises quietly so as not to wake her younger brother and sister, who both share her bed, and she then cooks rice for breakfast while reviewing her books.
The children's mother died of cancer a year ago, leaving the family with $1,500 in debts. Their father, a carpenter named Dao Van Hiep, loves his children and is desperate for them to get an education, but he has taken city jobs so that he can pay down the debt. Therefore, during the week, Phung is like a single mother who happens to be in the ninth grade.
Phung wakes her brother and sister, and then after breakfast they all trundle off to school. For Phung, that means a 90-minute bicycle ride each way. She arrives at school 20 minutes early to be sure she's not late.
After school, the three children go fishing to get something to eat for dinner. Phung reserves unpleasant chores, like cleaning the toilet, for herself, but she does not hesitate to discipline her younger brother, Tien, 9, or sister, Huong, 12. When Tien disobeyed her by hanging out with some bad boys, she thrashed him with a stick.
Most of the time, though, she's gentle, especially when Tien misses his mother. ''I try to comfort him,'' she says, ''but then all three of us end up crying.''
Phung yearns to attend university and become an accountant. It's an almost impossible dream for a village girl, but across East Asia the poor often compensate for lack of money with a dazzling work ethic and gritty faith that education can change destinies. The obsession with schooling is a legacy of Confucianism -- a 2,500-year-old tradition of respect for teachers, scholarship and meritocratic exams. That's one reason Confucian countries like China, South Korea and Vietnam are among the world's star performers in the war on poverty.
Phung pleads with her father to pay for extra tutoring in math and English. He explains softly that the cost -- $40 a year -- is unaffordable.
(For anyone who wants to help Phung, an aid group called Room to Read has set up a fund to help her and girls like her; details are on my blog, nytimes.com/ontheground, or on Facebook.com/Kristof.)
I wish we Americans could absorb a dollop of Phung's reverence for education. The United States, once the world leader in high school and college attendance, has lagged in both since the 1970s. Of 27 countries in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development for which we have data, the United States now ranks 23rd in high school graduation rates.
Granted, Asian schools don't nurture creativity, and Vietnamese girls are sometimes treated as second-class citizens who must drop out of school to help at home. But education is generally a top priority in East Asia, for everyone from presidents to peasants.
Teachers in America's troubled schools complain to me that parents rarely show up for meetings. In contrast, Phung's father takes a day off work and spends a day's wages for transportation to attend parent-teacher conferences.
''If I don't work, I lose a little bit of money,'' he said. ''But if my kids miss out on school, they lose their life hopes. I want to know how they're doing in school.''
''I tell my children that we don't own land that I can leave them when they grow up,'' he added. ''So the only thing I can give them is an education.''
For all the differences between Vietnam and America, here's a common truth: The best way to sustain a nation's competitiveness is to build human capital. I wish we Americans, especially our politicians, could learn from Phung that our long-term strength will depend less on our aircraft carriers than on the robustness of our kindergartens, less on financing spy satellites than on financing Pell grants.
Phung gets this better than our Congress. Every day, she helps her little brother and sister with their homework first and then completes her own. Sometimes she doesn't collapse into bed until 11 p.m., only to rouse herself four hours later.
On Sundays, Phung sleeps in. As she explained: ''I don't get up till 5.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (68%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (67%); ETHICS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIET NAM (93%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



454 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Back to Common Sense at the Polls

 BODY:
It might have been ''too much too soon,'' a chastened Gov. John Kasich of Ohio admitted on Tuesday night, after his state's voters overwhelmingly rejected his attempt to break public employee unions. He certainly was right about ''too much,'' an analysis that also applies to other examples of Republican overreach around the country that were kicked into the gutter: an anti-abortion amendment in Mississippi, a voting restriction in Maine, the radical anti-immigrant agenda of a politician in Arizona.
These policies, and similar ones in other states, were passed in an arrogant frenzy by a Tea Party-tide of Republicans elected in 2010. Many of them decided that they had a mandate to dismantle some of the basic protections and restrictions of government. They went too far, and weary voters had to drag them back toward the center. 
As a result, Tuesday brought an overdue return of common sense to government policy in many states. Many voters are tired of legislation driven more by ideology than practicality, of measures that impoverish the middle class or deprive people of basic rights in order to prove some discredited economic theory or cultural belief.
That was most evident in Ohio, where voters overwhelmingly repealed a law pushed through last spring by Republicans to shred collective-bargaining rights for public employees. It prohibited bargaining on health benefits for state and local workers, including teachers, police officers and firefighters, and made it much harder to collect union dues or negotiate on staffing.
Many states are bleeding because of high salaries and lavish benefits, but, as New York and Connecticut have shown, it is possible to reduce them without breaking unions. The roughshod course chosen by Ohio, as well as Wisconsin and Indiana, made the real agenda all too clear: breaking the political power of public unions. Blue-collar voters in Ohio, many of whom got to the middle class through collective bargaining, understood the game.
Many of those same voters also supported a powerless amendment repudiating health care reform. With the matter up to the courts, there was little campaigning on the issue to explain its benefits to the uninsured.
In Arizona, voters recoiling from anti-immigrant stridency recalled the State Senate's president, Russell Pearce, who was the main sponsor and public face of Arizona's immigration law, which imposed sweeping police-state powers to harass and expel people without papers. The law, largely blocked in federal court, has done huge damage to the state's economy and reputation, and voters in Mr. Pearce's district clearly had had enough.
Maine voters saw right through the partisanship behind Republican attempts to eliminate same-day voter registration and reinstated it. In state after state, Republicans have tried to make it harder to vote, knowing that restrictions tend to hit lower-income and minority voters -- traditional supporters of Democrats. Unfortunately, Mississippi voters were not as enlightened, approving a new requirement for identification cards at the polls.
But, even the voters in that state, one of the country's most conservative, decisively rejected an amendment to ban abortion by declaring a fertilized egg as a person. The measure also would have effectively banned some forms of contraception and even in-vitro fertilization, and 58 percent of voters said that was going too far.
It is not clear that Tuesday's votes add up to a national trend that will have an effect on 2012 or even the deadlock in Congress. But they do offer a ray of hope to any candidate who runs on pragmatic solutions, not magical realism, to create jobs and reduce the pressures of inequality on the middle class and the poor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); IMMIGRATION LAW (75%); IMMIGRATION (75%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); ABORTION (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KASICH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



455 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: Trade War In Solar Takes Shape

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- The United States and China are gearing up for a trade war that could catch American users of solar energy in the crossfire.
The Commerce Department in Washington on Wednesday opened an investigation sought by American manufacturers who accuse the Chinese of ''dumping'' solar panels into the United States at prices, aided by government subsidies, lower than the cost of making and distributing them.
Anticipating that move, the government-controlled Chinese solar industry has been unusually vitriolic this week. A trade group accused the White House of turning the commercial complaint into ''a political farce, which is very likely a publicity show initiated by the Obama administration for the coming election.''
Meanwhile, a new American trade group was formed this week, representing buyers and installers of solar-energy systems. It argues that any new Commerce Department restrictions on Chinese solar panels would slow the adoption of clean energy technology in the United States and could cost thousands of American jobs. Some environmentalists also oppose policies that might slow the adoption of solar energy. 
Solar power is a politically charged issue in Washington, in part because of the bankruptcy this summer of a solar panel maker, Solyndra, after it had received more than $500 million in federal loan guarantees.
The use of solar energy in the United States is growing fast, but Chinese solar panel manufacturers have been growing even faster, raising their American market share to more than half now, from almost none five years ago.
By bringing together complex issues like manufacturing policy, job creation and climate change, the solar panel dispute is emerging as the most politically charged trade case in many years, potentially rivaling Detroit's legal case against Japanese automakers under a related trade statute in 1980.
The solar panel case ''is one of those once-in-a-generation cases,'' said Alan W. Wolff, a deputy United States trade representative in the Carter administration who is now the chairman of the international trade practice in the Washington office of the Dewey & LeBoeuf law firm.
Although solar energy now contributes only about one-tenth of 1 percent of American electricity, the amount of new solar wattage installed in the United States has been growing more than 70 percent a year since 2008, according to GTM Research, a renewable energy market analysis firm in Boston.
Seven American manufacturers filed a legal petition on Oct. 19 seeking the Commerce Department investigation and asking that tariffs of more than 100 percent be imposed on solar panels from China. The filing accused the Chinese industry of using billions of dollars in government subsidies to help gain sales in the American market and dumping panels at very low prices.
Under American trade laws, Wednesday was the deadline for the department to either begin a formal inquiry -- unless it judged the case to be groundless -- or find that few companies manufacturing panels in the United States actually supported it.
Whatever action the American government might take, it could prove too late to save the American solar panel industry. China, whose government has been a big promoter of green-energy companies, already accounts for three-fifths of the world's solar panel production, giving it enormous economies of scale.
And it exports 95 percent of its production, much of it to the United States, rather than using it within China. That has helped push wholesale solar panel prices down sharply -- to $1 to $1.20 a watt of capacity today, from $1.80 in January, from $3.30 in 2008.
Although plunging prices could speed up the adoption of solar power, the American industry contends the Chinese are simply not playing fair. Besides Solyndra, two other American solar companies that together represented one-sixth of American manufacturing capacity in the sector went bankrupt in August, while four other American solar companies have laid off workers and cut output since spring of last year.
President Obama said in an interview on Nov. 2 with a television reporter from Oregon, the hub of the American solar panel manufacturing industry, that there were ''questionable competitive practices coming out of China'' in clean energy.
That prompted the ''farce'' statement this week by the government-controlled Chinese Renewable Energy Industries Association, condemning Mr. Obama's remark and contending that it indicated a bias in favor of the American manufacturers. ''They attempt to shift the responsibility of U.S. clean energy development failure, especially President Obama's personal responsibility, to Chinese solar cell companies,'' the statement also said.
The Commerce Department uses a quasi-judicial process administered mainly by civil servants to adjudicate antidumping and antisubsidy cases. Congress created the process in the 1970s to shield the decision makers from political influence. There had been a perception that Republican and Democratic administrations had ignored violations of international trade rules during the cold war by Japan and other countries as long as they remained strong geopolitical allies against the Soviet Union.
Republican and Democratic administrations have defended the current process as insulated from politics.
''The methodology of this is not political,'' said Frank L. Lavin, a longtime Republican who has held a series of appointments in Republican administrations, including overseeing the antidumping and antisubsidy investigations office when he was the undersecretary of commerce for international trade during President George W. Bush's second term.
But like many Republicans, Mr. Lavin was critical of the Obama administration for having provided a half-billion dollars in federal credit guarantees to Solyndra, now bankrupt, a California company with an alternative solar energy technaology. The financing is the subject of a continuing investigation by House Republicans.
''It's very hard to make a case that $500 million was well spent,'' said Mr. Lavin, who is now a public affairs consultant in Hong Kong and not advising either side in the solar panel dispute.
The Commerce Department is required by law to issue a preliminary decision on the antidumping claim possibly in mid-January but no later than late March, and on the antisubsidy claim no later than mid-May. Many trade experts expect that the decision would include steep tariffs on imports, and that those tariffs would be retroactive to 90 days before each decision and possibly retroactive to Wednesday's opening of the department's investigation.
Chinese industries have lost almost all of the antidumping and antisubsidy cases against them for decades because the United States still categorizes China as a nonmarket economy, which means that special rules are used that tend to favor the American industry.
Most of the big Chinese solar panel manufacturers have subsidiaries in the United States that are the legal importers, so they -- not the American installers of solar panels -- would incur the initial costs of any tariffs. But those costs could be expected to be passed along to customers; otherwise, Chinese companies might find themselves vulnerable to higher antidumping penalties in the future.
Taking the lead in the dumping petition was SolarWorld Industries America, a unit of the German manufacturer SolarWorld. Six other American solar panel manufacturers signed on to the case with SolarWorld, but all have exercised the option to keep their identities secret.
That anonymity could help relieve them and their executives from fears of retaliation by the Chinese government, which could come in the form of denying them access to the Chinese market or denying them visas.
But the secrecy also makes it hard for the Chinese industry's lawyers to figure out if the companies filing the case have themselves received American government subsidies. SolarWorld Industries America has acknowledged receiving a few million dollars in subsidies for research and none for exports. Government subsidies that promote exports are the ones likely to violate international trade rules.
Li Junfeng, the president of the Chinese Renewable Energy Industries Association and also a deputy director general of the National Development and Reform Commission, China's top economic planning agency, said in a telephone interview on Thursday morning that the United States and China should work together to reduce the cost of solar power instead of engaging in trade conflicts.
While the American manufacturers say that their Chinese competitors have received billions in subsidies, Mr. Li denied this, and said that Chinese companies' subsidies had not come close to Solyndra's. ''No one gets a bigger subsidy; all of them are $10 million or less,'' and these amounts were mainly in 2005 and 2006, he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Inside Evergreen Solar's manufacturing plant in Devens, Mass. This past August, the company filed for bankruptcy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW CAVANAUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (96%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); PETITIONS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); MARKET SHARE (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (69%); LEGAL SERVICES (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); LAWYERS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%)

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (90%); DEWEY & LEBOEUF LLP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (53%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (93%); HONG KONG (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



456 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Our High-Tech Health-Care Future

BYLINE: By FRANK MOSS. 
Frank Moss, an entrepreneur and former director of the M.I.T. Media Lab, is the author of ''The Sorcerers and Their Apprentices: How the Digital Magicians of the M.I.T. Media Lab Are Creating the Innovative Technologies That Will Transform Our Lives.''

 BODY:
Cambridge, Mass.
WHY can't Americans tap into the ingenuity that put men on the moon, created the Internet and sequenced the human genome to revitalize our economy?
I'm convinced we can. We are in the early phases of the next big technology-driven revolution, which I call ''consumer health.'' When fully unleashed, it could radically cut health care costs and become a huge global growth market.
Over the past few years, innovations like electronic health records and the use of mobile computing devices in hospitals have begun to improve medical care delivery. Consumer health information Web sites and online disease support groups have made millions of people active participants in their own health care. 
But imagine a far more extreme transformation, in which advances in information technology, biology and engineering allow us to move much of health care out of hospitals, clinics and doctors' offices, and into our everyday lives.
Here's a picture -- inspired by ideas and innovations emerging from university research labs, clinical innovation centers, start-ups and large companies -- of how it could work.
It would begin with a ''digital nervous system'': inconspicuous wireless sensors worn on your body and placed in your home would continuously monitor your vital signs and track the daily activities that affect your health, counting the number of steps you take and the quantity and quality of food you eat. Wristbands would measure your levels of arousal, attention and anxiety. Bandages would monitor cuts for infection. Your bathroom mirror would calculate your heart rate, blood pressure and oxygen level.
Then you'd get automated advice. Software that could analyze and visually represent this data would enable you to truly understand the impact of your behavior on your health and suggest changes to help prevent illness -- by far the most effective way to cut health care costs.
Many situations would still call for professional medical attention, of course, but in most cases you wouldn't need to make a costly trip to the doctor's office. If you were not feeling well, a lifelike avatar on your smart phone would use natural-language processing to listen as you described your symptoms and then would translate them into medical jargon. After consulting a diagnostic supercomputer, the avatar would ask you to run a few quick medical tests at home.
You might slip a low-cost plastic attachment over your phone display, look into its eyepiece and conduct a cataract exam. The avatar would transmit the results to your human doctor, who would send you a video message explaining the diagnosis and prescribing treatment.
When you did need an office visit, you and your doctor would sit side by side in front of a large touch screen that would display a conceptual animation of what was going on inside your body. Decisions like choice of medication and dosing schedules would be made collaboratively with your doctor, and treatment regimens would be synchronized to apps on your phone that would make the task of following doctor's orders -- all too often neglected -- easy and even fun. (I am an adviser to some early stage start-ups developing technologies like these.)
The United States should commit to a ''moon shot'' for consumer health to make this imagined world a reality. In addition to the health benefits, we would gain revenue from exports of consumer health products to countries like China and India, which are likely to become enormous health care markets. And the savings in health care costs could easily amount to a trillion dollars annually, as those costs are now about 18 percent of gross domestic product but could be brought closer in line with the 10 percent typical of modern developed nations.
I acknowledge that this goal is very optimistic, given the paternalism of the medical profession, the poor health habits of most Americans and the perverse incentives of our health care system.
But the burgeoning consumer health revolution has a powerful force on its side -- American creativity. There is a rapidly growing network of inventors, academics and entrepreneurs who share a passion for empowering individuals to take control of their health. There is even a spirited health data movement, known as the Quantified Self, that is reminiscent of the Homebrew Computer Club, whose members helped spawn Apple and other companies in the early days of the personal computing revolution.
There's also private sector money beginning to flow. Venture capitalists are ramping up their investments in health-tech start-ups. The X Prize Foundation is co-sponsoring a $10 million award for the best mobile device allowing consumers to diagnose their own diseases.
For its part, all the government has to do is to catalyze this revolution. One step in the right direction is Healthdata.gov, a free resource of public health data and tools that can help innovators quickly bring to market data-driven applications and services. A bigger step would be for Congress to pass a bill that would orchestrate the development of interoperability and privacy standards for consumer health products and actively promote the industry at home and abroad.
Recent history has shown that when the right cultural, technical and economic forces converge, people can transform fundamental aspects of society from the bottom up in a way that seemed impossible just a short time before. I believe that such a time is coming for health care.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MORGAN ELLIOTT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (88%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); CONSUMER HEALTH INFORMATION (78%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); SMARTPHONES (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); MEDICAL RECORDS (71%); CATARACTS (69%); ANIMATION (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



457 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: How to Leave the Euro

BYLINE: By STERGIOS SKAPERDAS. 
Stergios Skaperdas is a professor of economics at the University of California, Irvine.

 BODY:
Irvine, Calif.
HAVING been led down an ever-worsening spiral by the euro zone and its own government, Greece now faces two options, both of them painful: stay the course, or default and exit the monetary union.
Each presents difficulties and uncertainties, but in the long run there is no question that default, and a return to the drachma, offer the better chance of economic growth and employment.
Staying the course -- which, despite the impending change of government, is still Greece's plan -- means continuing austerity and unemployment for the foreseeable future. The young and skilled will go abroad, leaving behind an older, less productive and needier population to endure a crushing debt. In the meantime, all important economic decisions will be made in Paris, Berlin and Brussels. 
Default at Greece's initiative, by contrast, would allow Greece to influence its destiny. The process would be largely governed by Greek law, instead of its being a matter of private discussions between the German chancellor and the French president, and would thus lead to a more sustainable debt burden.
Because of problems with financing Greek banks and pension funds, default would be likely to mean leaving the euro. But that's a good thing, as it would give Greece control of its own monetary policy. This is especially important now, with Greek credit and liquidity severely restricted, most critically in its vital small-business sector. Moreover, since the ''new drachma,'' as the post-euro currency might be called, would depreciate, both tourism and exports would rise, and imports decrease, all of which would make Greece more competitive.
So why have Greek leaders stuck with the euro at all? In part, it's because the thought of defaulting and leaving the euro after nearly a decade is so intimidating. But while not without costs, it would in fact be relatively straightforward, especially if preparation is underway behind the scenes.
To minimize the number of days banks would need to be closed, the decision to move to the new drachma should be made on a Friday. Bank deposits and domestic debt would be immediately converted to new drachmas at the initial exchange rate. It would fall to the Greek courts to determine whether pre-2010 public debt would follow suit, but there is no reason to think they would treat it any differently from domestic debt.
Loans from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund, though, would probably be kept in euros. That's a problem, because once Greece leaves, the euro itself would substantially increase in value -- and thus the loans' price in drachmas would increase. But since incomes would also drop if the country stayed in the euro zone, the real, productive resources the country would need to service that debt wouldn't be much different.
Apart from these steps, the transition would take time. It could take perhaps months to print enough new drachmas to support domestic transactions, and during that time euros would stay in circulation. Banks would also need time to adjust their accounting, computers and clearing routines. Still, a few distinctive details of the euro aside, managing the transition from one currency to another is well understood: the change of currencies that followed the breakup of Czechoslovakia, for example, took several weeks and by all accounts went well.
True, such a move would close off access to international bond markets, making bilateral borrowing from another country Greece's only option abroad. But this is less a concern than some think, because Greece is soon expected to achieve a primary budget surplus (the government budget surplus, excluding interest on debt) which would make domestic borrowing sufficient.
Initially, foreign exchange would be scarce, making it harder to import essential goods. In the short term, then, Greece would need to limit the outflow of foreign capital, an aggressive but not uncommon practice. The private, euro-denominated external debt of banks and other companies would also need support through government guarantees.
Some of these steps may seem daunting, but they are not much different from what Greece faced before its adoption of the euro. In any case, the policies followed so far have demonstrably failed. Greece must contemplate, and then undertake, an exit from the euro zone. The sooner a transition occurs, the better for everyone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EURO (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); IMPORT TRADE (69%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); MONETARY POLICY (65%); SMALL BUSINESS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) GREECE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (91%); GERMANY (79%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



458 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Fear of Contagion

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY, CHRISTINE HAUSER and NELSON D. SCHWARTZ; Julie Creswell, Louise Story, Jack Ewing, Landon Thomas Jr., and Liz Alderman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Europe's efforts to stem financial contagion foundered on Wednesday as investors dumped their holdings of Italian government bonds, prompting a global stock market sell-off.
Investors drove up the cost of borrowing for Italy beyond 7 percent, a critical level that many economists see as unsustainable and that last year precipitated bailouts for the financially troubled nations of Greece, Ireland and Portugal.
''Wednesday's surge in Italian government bond yields has catapulted the euro zone crisis into a dangerous new phase,'' said John Higgins, a senior markets economist with Capital Economics, in a research note.
Italy's problems come just weeks after European leaders thought they had stemmed the tide by agreeing on a debt restructuring for Greece and bolstering a bailout fund that was supposed to protect Italy. 
But on Wednesday investors swept past those firebreaks, dumping Italian debt after one of Europe's big bond-trading clearinghouses raised the collateral it requires because of the increased riskiness of the debt. Meanwhile, banks have been offloading Italian bonds to reduce their exposure, and investors took negative bets on Italy by selling bond futures.
In stock markets, investors unleashed a wave of selling across the board in Europe and the United States.
In Europe, the major indexes ended down around 2 percent. Wall Street opened sharply lower and never recovered, pushing the broader market deeper into negative territory for the year. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ended down 3.7 percent, or 46.82 points, at 1,229.10.
As interest rates on Italian bonds peaked at about 7.48 percent, the European Central Bank intervened by buying the debt, traders said, causing rates to fall back slightly. But this latest phase of Europe's financial crisis is putting a new focus on the central bank, with many expecting it to have to act more aggressively in buying Italian debt than it has so far.
The euro tumbled, and Spanish and French bond yields also rose amid fears that the contagion could spread further. However, some gauges of credit market stress did not worsen markedly on the day. And analysts said Italy is a stronger economy than other nations that have sought bailouts and has the strength to weather the current high interest rates at least in the near term.
Investors may also be reassured if in the coming weeks Italy, the third largest economy in the euro zone, can solve its political problems and put together a new government to tackle its slowing growth and budget pressures.
But investors Wednesday dumped Italian debt after one of Europe's big clearinghouses, LCH.Clearnet, required increased margin for trades, making it more expensive for investors to buy and sell.
Banks have also been offloading Italian debt to reduce their exposure to Europe's financial crisis, which has tended to put further upward pressure on interest rates. Since July, for example, BNP Paribas has reduced its exposure to Italian government debt by 40 percent to 12.2 billion euros.
Italy is also the only country among Europe's weaker nations that offers investors the opportunity to buy or sell futures contracts tied to Italian bonds, and investors have been taking negative bets against Italy by selling futures, adding to the pressure.
In addition, many analysts say because the Greek debt write-down did not set off credit-default swaps that are supposed to serve as insurance on Italian bonds, investors concluded that the hedges they had in place did not offer sufficient protection, another reason for investors to sell debt and reduce their exposure.
Italy faces important tests of investor confidence at an auction on Thursday of one-year bills to raise 5 billion euros, and an auction next week of five-year bonds when it hopes to raise up to 3 billion euros. About 48 percent of Italian debt is held by Italian investors; the rest, 52 percent, is held by investors outside Italy, mostly in Europe.
It is unclear who beyond the central bank will be providing demand for Italian debt in the coming weeks.
Some fund managers in London said the sell-off in Italian bonds gained momentum after the clearinghouse raised margin calls on Italian bonds, including 30-year maturities.
''We've seen this before in terms of Greece, Ireland and Portugal,'' said Sohail Malik, the lead portfolio manager of European Credit Management's special situations fund. ''Margins increase inevitably leading to deleveraging. Investors start selling and margins rise again. It's a self-fulfilling prophecy.'' He said that selling was met by a dearth of buyers, with the central bank appearing to only start aggressively buying Italian government debt around noon.
But Mr. Malik and others believe that the central bank will have to step up its buying of bonds if it wants to stabilize the country's yields. ''Right now, the E.C.B. are buying at a pace of 8 billion to 10 billion euros per week. Market sentiment indicates a need closer to 60 to 70 billion euros per month to stabilize Italian yields.''
He said Italian banks would try to provide strong demand at the auction on Thursday to try to make it a success.
The market shudders did not appear to set off quick policy reactions from European officials or, apart from bond buying by the European Central Bank, by central banks around the world including the Federal Reserve.
A spokesman for the International Monetary Fund said Wednesday that the fund currently had no plans to offer Italy financial assistance.
''It's really up to Italy to act,'' said one European official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
There is a feeling among several European leaders that all the central bank buying so far has only allowed Italy to stall its fiscal and political reforms, and perhaps the market pressure on Italy is needed to make its government react as it should, the officials said.
As painful as a Greek default would be, the world economy faces a much graver threat if investors abandon Italian debt and the cost of borrowing for the Italian government becomes prohibitive. Italy is the world's fourth largest borrower, after the United States, Japan and Germany. It owes more than the other troubled countries on the periphery of Europe -- Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain -- put together.
On the Continent, French banks are the most exposed, holding more than $100 billion worth of sovereign Italian bonds. They are on the line for an additional $300 billion loans to private borrowers like Italian companies.
Investors fleeing euro zone risk poured into the perceived safety of United States and German government bonds, driving their prices up and their yields down. The yield on the German 10-year bond fell 8 basis points to 1.7 percent, while the equivalent United States Treasury fell 11 basis points to 1.968 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A stock exchange monitor drew attention Wednesday in Milan. Global worries over Italy's economy are intensifying. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANTONIO CALANNI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
A floor official, Rudi Maas, left, and a trader, Thomas Kay, working at the New York Stock Exchange. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) CHARTS: Italian Bond Yields Soar: Italy's benchmark 10-year bond yield soared above 7 percent in market trading Wednesday as concern grew about the country's financial situation. Such high levels led to bailouts of Greece, Ireland and Portugal. (Source: Bloomberg) (B1)
 The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); EURO (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); BUDGETS (78%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); BNP PARIBAS SA (57%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (57%); BNP (BIT) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (99%); EUROPE (96%); GREECE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); PORTUGAL (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



459 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Wait! Don't Tell Me!

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
If only he'd written them on his wrist.
The most recent Republican debate will be remembered forever as the time Rick Perry announced that as president he'd immediately close down three federal agencies and then could remember only two. (''Commerce. Education. What's the third one?'')
He appeared to be asking Ron Paul, who gave him the wrong answer. There we were, back in third grade, peeping at the next kid's paper. Except for the part where everybody in class is running for president. 
So much for Governor Perry, who went out not with a bang but an ''oops.''
If only he'd prepared! I can see him now, jogging in the morning, his coyote-killing pistol tucked precariously into his sweatpants, chanting: ''President Perry knocks off three: Commerce! Education! Energy!'' all the way down the trail. Really, it would have made all the difference.
Rick Perry, we hardly knew ye. Farewell.
Nobody is ever going to recall anything else about Wednesday night's debate. The other candidates behaved exactly the way they always have. Mitt Romney is still smarmy. Newt Gingrich is still pompous. Herman Cain is still not going to be president.
Pity the Republican voters. They aren't asking for much. They just want a candidate who's really conservative but not totally crazy. Who has verbs in his sentences. Who didn't drive to Canada with the family dog strapped to the roof of the car. Yet they're still searching with such desperation that you expect to wake up some morning and see a headline like: ''Poll Says Most Likely Voters in South Carolina Favor the Geico Gecko.''
Going into the debate, Gingrich was on a little upswing, which seemed to make him even more self-important than usual. ''I love humor disguised as a question. That's terrific,'' Newt said snarkily, when CNBC's Maria Bartiromo called him on his claim that the media was doing a bad job of covering the economy. An excellent example of journalistic failure to dig deeply, Newt said, would be the way nobody asks Occupy Wall Street protesters who would pay for the parks if all the businesses failed. The crowd loved him.
Can you imagine how all this makes Rick Santorum feel? The former senator from Pennsylvania has been running around for years now, talking about conservative social values and trying to get right-wing Republican voters to think of him as presidential timber. He's good at debating, and he says ''family'' at least 5,000 times per appearance. He points out constantly that he thought of everything first. But he's never gotten a bump. The Republican core turned to Michele Bachmann. They had a fling with Rick Perry. They fell in love with Herman Cain. They had a mad moment in the school cloakroom with Donald Trump. Now, they're sniffing around Newt.
Romney dismissed a question about his perpetual position-changing by pointing out that he had been married for 42 years and had been a Mormon his entire life. Is this what we're going to be getting for the rest of the campaign? An opponent points out that he's changed his stance on something, and Romney will whip out a sweater that he's been wearing since sophomore year in college.
The debate took place right after a series of state and local elections that seemed to suggest voters were getting tired of crazy. From sea to shining sea, there was a very strong anti-nutcase tenor to the results. Arizona got rid of the State Senate leader who championed the anti-immigrant frenzy. Ohio voters repudiated their loopy governor's war against public employees. And, in Mississippi, voters resoundingly rejected an anti-abortion amendment that would have made every fertilized egg a person.
Things have gone so far that Mississippi has to pull us back.
The personhood proposal didn't come up during the debate. The pack-trailing Jon Huntsman has been the only Republican candidate who's said he thought it went too far. In a Fox interview, Romney danced around the edges. When asked, ''Would you have supported the constitutional amendment that would have established the definition of life at conception?'' Mitt said: ''Absolutely.'' But it was possible, you know, that he was referring to a different amendment and not the one that all the Republicans happened to be talking about this fall.
Just for the heck of it, let me remind you that this is the same guy who said ''abortion should be safe and legal in this country'' when he was running for office in Massachusetts against Ted Kennedy. He said quite a bit more along the same line, but it looks as though we'll have plenty of time to revisit that. Twelve months of Mitt, actually. Yikes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (50%)

COMPANY: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES INSURANCE CO (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (53%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (79%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%); HERMAN CAIN (58%); RON PAUL (58%); MITT ROMNEY (58%); MARIA BARTIROMO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



460 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: It's Not About Welfare States

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: What isn't troubling the euro. 

 BODY:
Whenever a disaster happens, people rush to claim it as vindication for whatever they believed before. And so it is with the euro.
As an aside, the interesting thing about the euro from a political point of view is the way it cut across the ideological spectrum. It was hailed by the Wall Street Journal crowd, who saw it as a sort of milestone on the way back to gold, and by many on the British left, who saw it as a way to create an alliance of social democracies. It was criticized by Thatcherites, who wanted to be free to move Britain in an American direction, and by American liberals, who believed in the importance of discretionary monetary and fiscal policy.
But now that the thing is in trouble, people on the right are spinning this as a demonstration that ... strong welfare states can't work.
So, just to say what should be obvious, the countries in trouble are not in any way marked out by having especially generous welfare states. You can use a number of indicators; here's the OECD measure of "social expenditure", measuring (separately and together) both public spending and private spending that is channeled and regulated by public policy, like US employer-based health insurance. 
Sweden, with the largest social expenditure, is doing just fine. So is Denmark. And Germany, which is the up side of the pulling-apart euro, has a bigger welfare state than the GIPS.
Not that the facts will convince anyone on the right, but the blame-the-welfare-state meme is nonsense.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LIBERALISM (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MONETARY POLICY (54%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (51%); HEALTH INSURANCE (51%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



461 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Part 4: Answers to Your Questions on Applying with a Learning Disability

BYLINE: MARYBETH KRAVETS


HIGHLIGHT: Marybeth Kravets, an educational consultant, is answering questions this week on applying to college with a learning disability. 

 BODY:
of the Chicago Scholars Foundation.
Q.
My son has a physical disability that presents many of the same issues as a learning disability. (It is very similar to POTS [postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome] described in Jane Brody's article a few weeks ago.) Between his illness and the medication to treat it, he has a limited number of hours a week when he can work at full efficiency, and his mental clarity is sometimes diminished. There is so much written now about schools sensitive to learning disabilities. Where can I find out about schools that understand that physical debilities like chronic pain also affect learning, and support their students accordingly?
A.
The offices of disability services are there for students like your son once admitted to college. Your son would be accommodated under the Americans with Disabilities Act and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act.
The disability you describe would be identified as "another health related disability," and would need to be documented by a certified professional. Once this documentation is submitted to the office of disability services, a 504 plan would be developed. I encourage you to talk to the disability staff on the college campuses you are considering to determine if your son's particular needs can be met.
If appropriate, students can take a reduced course load, request additional time to complete assignments, get extra breaks during exams and use assistive technology. Typically colleges will not modify the curriculum or alter graduation requirements, so you'll need to ask good questions before having him enroll. Perhaps as a starting point you might want to explore the School for New Learning at DePaul University in Chicago, Ill. Through this program, students can take courses in the classroom or online, take time off when the symptoms of their illnesses become too severe to continue with the course, and finish coursework later with no penalty or tuition loss. Good luck.
Q.
My son, a senior at a California public high school, is applying to colleges. He has attention deficit disorder and dyslexia, and he has had an individualized education program since second grade. High school academics have been a struggle for him because of his organizational and planning difficulties. I'm considering the option of an A.D.D. coach who is external to the college. In your experience, do you see this kind of support as helpful to students with organizational challenges? How would you recommend a student or parent investigate a university's willingness to work with an A.D.D. coach who is external to the school?[#x2028]
A.
Although the cost of an A.D.D. coach could be high, if the family can afford it, this type of support can be a lifesaver for some students.
I do not think that hiring an external coach would be an issue for any college unless, of course, the coach were doing the student's work. Students who do not have A.D.D. hire outside tutors, which is no different than having an A.D.D. coach. The contract is between the student and the coach. Some coaches check in with the student on a daily basis and oversee issues relating to organizational skills, time management, hygiene or stress; in other cases, they simply provide mentoring and friendship.
The Achieve Program at Southern Illinois University offers A.D.D. coaching as part of its auxiliary program for students with A.D.D. or learning disabilities. The cost for that coaching is incorporated into the fee for the program. The ultimate goal, though, for all students, is to gain independence and not need the support of a coach.

        
Part 3: Answers to Your Questions on Applying With a Learning Disability
        
Part 2: Answers to Your Questions on Applying with a Learning Disability
        
Part 1: Answers to Your Questions on Applying With a Learning Disability
        
Application Inflation, and Extra Time on the SAT and ACT for Students with Disabilities

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DISABLED PERSONS (97%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); DYSLEXIA (78%); CURRICULA (78%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (78%); HEART DISEASE (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); PROSTHETIC & ASSISTIVE DEVICES (73%); ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER (73%); SPEECH & LANGUAGE DISORDERS (73%); CHRONIC DISEASES (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (61%) Learning Disabilities; southern illinois university; Colleges and Universities; Disabilities; Special Education; Guidance Office

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



462 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 55 words

HEADLINE: The Fed as Euro-Contagion Inoculator?

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: Brad DeLong, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley, writes: "The Federal Reserve needs to buy up every single European bond owned by every single American financial institution for cash before the increase in eurorisk leads American finance to tighten credit again and send us down into the double dip." 

 BODY:
Brad DeLong, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley, writes: "The Federal Reserve needs to buy up every single European bond owned by every single American financial institution for cash before the increase in eurorisk leads American finance to tighten credit again and send us down into the double dip." Read more 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%) Federal Reserve System; Legal/Regulatory

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%) Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



463 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: 4-Year-Old Is Shot, and Father Retaliates

BYLINE: DANIEL E. SLOTNIK


HIGHLIGHT: Also in the Morning Buzz: Scrutiny for the architects of a condominium that collapsed, a call for the resignation of the president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, and other regional news. 

 BODY:
Here is what City Room is reading in other newspapers and blogs.
Police sources said a Bronx man snatched a gun from a would-be mugger and shot him after the robber or one of his two accomplices shot the man's 4-year-old son. [Daily News] (Also see The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times and The New York Post.)
The architects working on a condominium complex in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn, that collapsed and killed one worker have a troubling history of ignoring building regulations. [Daily News]
Furious Bronx delegates from the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association called for the union's president, Patrick J. Lynch, to step down in the wake of the ticket-fixing scandal. [New York Post] (Also see The New York Times.) 
At least two Metropolitan Transportation Authority supervisors, who made more than $100,000 a year, have been demoted and two others have retired after allegations were made that they had falsified timekeeping records. [Daily News] (Also see The Wall Street Journal.)
A problem in the New York City Housing Authority computer system bungled the payment of rent subsidies for some low-income families, leading some landlords to move to evict their tenants. [New York Post]
Officials said South Asian residents of the University Heights neighborhood of the Bronx were frequently targets of criminals. [Daily News]
The Brooklyn Navy Yard is now open to the public. [Brooklyn Daily Eagle]
Sanford I. Weill, former CitiGroup chairman, has put his Central Park West penthouse on the market for $88 million. He said that he thought the country's economic troubles made it a perfect time for wealthy Americans "to be quiet" and that proceeds would be donated to charity. [Wall Street Journal]
An apartment complex in East New York, Brooklyn, that houses about 2,000 people has been without hot water since Saturday. [NY1]
Workers on Wall Street are canceling reservations at the celebrity chef Mario Batali's lavish restaurants after he publicly compared bankers to Hitler and Stalin. [New York Post] (Also see The New York Times.)
Pedicabs, a scourge of Times Square, have been spotted in Dumbo, Brooklyn. [mcbrooklyn]
The Indian spice importer Dhiraj Arora allegedly wandered through the Four Seasons Hotel in Midtown naked and intoxicated before he was removed by police officers in September, law enforcement sources said. [New York Post]
Some Stuyvesant Town residents are furious that a playground in the gigantic apartment complex is being converted to an ice rink. [DNA Info]
Macy's will open its first new store in New York City in over 15 years in the Bronx. [Wall Street Journal]

        
A Plan to Send TriBeCa Students to Chinatown
        
Trouble for a Library Chief and for a Tappan Zee Protester
        
Worst Marathon Time Ever, but Age Is Not to Blame
        
Primary Election Days: Is Three a Charm?
        
Be Careful: That Phrase Is Loaded

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); ROBBERY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); RESTAURANTS (75%); RESIGNATIONS (74%); SCANDALS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); CITIES (73%); EVICTION (71%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); CELEBRITIES (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); FAMILY (66%); NAVIES (64%); CHARITABLE GIVING (64%); CHARITIES (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (51%) buzz; headlines; New York City; Morning Buzz

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); CITIGROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (54%); C (BMV) (54%); 8710 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%)

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



464 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: From Home Fires: A U.S. Veteran Revisits Baghdad as a Civilian

BYLINE: AT WAR


HIGHLIGHT: Brian Turner returned to Baghdad because he wanted to talk to the people who lived through the war his country fought there. 

 BODY:
In case you missed it, Home Fires featured a great post by veteran and author Brian Turner on his return to Baghdad. Mr. Turner served from 2003-2004 as a sergeant in the 2nd Infantry Division. He went back as a civilian in December 2010 for reasons that weren't wholly clear to him at the time he resolved to do it. 
I don't know if returning to a place where you took part in a war could be called tourism. I didn't know what I would do, what my role should be here, or whether I should be here at all. I didn't know whether I would be welcomed, or shunned, or worse. I only knew that I had resolved to return to this place, to talk to the people who lived here, the people who'd lived through the war my country fought here, to ask questions, take photos and attempt to document a little part of what Baghdad is like today, with the war ostensibly over. 
You can read about his stops, impressions and encounters here. 

        
For Soldiers, the End of the Mail Means the End of the War
        
Study on 'Burn Pits' Cites Inadequate Evidence of Health Effects
        
New Data on High Unemployment Among Recent Veterans
        
Life and Death and Life in Iraq
        
Distant Wars, Constant Ghosts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VETERANS (90%); ARMED FORCES (77%) Home Fires; Iraq; Veterans; United States Defense and Military Forces; Baghdad (Iraq)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Baghdad (Iraq)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



465 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The 6th Floor)

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Meltdown, a Pretty Good Yarn

BYLINE: ADAM DAVIDSON


HIGHLIGHT: Once again, we're faced with a potential economy-destroying thriller written in a language few of us understand. As in 2008, the only way to follow each beat of the story is to buy a copy of Stigum's and read some of the world's least exciting prose on the confusing credit instruments that will either save or destroy us all. 

 BODY:
Once again, we're faced with a potential economy-destroying thriller written in a language few of us understand. As in 2008, the only way to follow each beat of the story is to buy a copy of Stigum's and read some of the world's least exciting prose on the confusing credit instruments that will either save or destroy us all.
I've found, as always, that The Financial Times offers the most helpful coverage, especially almost anything Martin Wolf writes. But the F.T., like everybody covering the tick-tock of Europe's economic demise, is written in that secret language of "credit spreads" and "stability facilities." It takes the rest of us in the media a few days (sometimes a few years) to figure out how to explain these things in somethingcloser to plain English.
Along with the rest of the Planet Money team, I have been spending a fair bit of time going backwards and learning the incredible story of how the euro was created, the audacious, impossible dreams of its founders, and how they kicked many crucial but contentious decisions down the road. Believe it or not, you might actually have fun reading "The Euro: The Battle for the New Global Currency," by David Marsh, who knows how to spin a good tale about monetary union. There was something in the euro for everyone - the Germans could sell their goods more easily and atone for WWII by creating a Europe unified by money, if not good will; the Greeks and Portuguese could pretend that their economies were all grown up; the Italians could paper over the shocking inequality between North and South.

We, at Planet Money, tried to show the relationship between big bond investors in the United States and angry protestors on the streets of Athens last year in a segment that's still pretty relevant.
If the euro crisis is too confusing and overwhelming, I saw two great fun-with-economics stories. The Awl used fairly serious economics - but it doesn't read like that - to explain the appearance and disappearance of the McRib sandwich, which becomes a solid lesson in arbitrage and the law of one price. And an economist's working paper shows how taxes may have got rid of witch trials in Europe. As a friend said, this is probably the first and last time a paper associated with the libertarian Mercatus Center shows taxes having a positive effect.

        
Is Capitalism Losing Popularity?
        
Virtual Gold, Real Money
        
Denim in Distress

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EURO CRISIS (75%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); EURO (72%); BONDS (69%); TRENDS (66%); WORLD WAR II (65%); WITCHCRAFT (50%) adam davidson; Economics; Marsh, David; Economic Conditions and Trends; Awl, The; Financial Times; Germany; Greece; Italy

ORGANIZATION: Awl, The; Financial Times

PERSON: Marsh, David

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (79%) EUROPE (94%); GREECE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); PORTUGAL (56%) Germany; Greece; Italy

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



466 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Union Plus Prepaid Card Comes With a High-Yield Savings Account

BYLINE: TARA SIEGEL BERNARD


HIGHLIGHT: The new Union Plus prepaid card, available to union members, comes with a savings account that carries an attractive 5.1 percent interest rate. 

 BODY:
Updated | Nov. 14, 2011 
These days, the odds of finding a savings account that carries a 5.1 percent interest rate are almost as good as your chances of, say, stumbling across a pot of gold.
But such an account does indeed exist, with some caveats: it's attached to the new Union Plus prepaid card, which is available to members of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which represents more than 12 million union members. But any worker can join Working America, an affiliate of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., to get access to the program.
There's another catch: the attractive interest rate only applies to the first $5,000 of savings. Anything above that amount will earn 0.10 percent. Still, the entire package compares favorably with many other prepaid cards on the market, which are known for charging fees at every turn.
"We wanted to create a debit card for working America," said Leslie Tolf, president of Union Privilege, the consumer benefits arm of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. "We are trying to avoid, as Elizabeth Warren would say, the 'tricks and traps' of bank fees."
But that doesn't mean it's completelyfree of fees.
Users can avoid the $2 monthly maintenance fee if they use direct deposit to load the card (and Ms. Tolf said users have the option of loading only a portion of their paycheck). You can also escape the fee if you had at least $500 on the card the month before, which you can also load for free via PayPal or a bank account.
You can put cash on the card, too, but it will cost you $4.95 each time. To do that, you need to buy a GreenDot MoneyPak at a retailer that sells them. Withdrawing cash from an A.T.M. costs $1.50 (plus anything the bank providing A.T.M. charges), while a balance inquiry costs 50 cents. But cardholders can retrieve cash at no charge at certain retailers.
Meanwhile, there are no activation charges, inactivity fees or any charges to make a purchase. And you can pay bills through their Web site, but it will cost you $1 for each transaction. Using the card outside the United States, meanwhile, will cost 2 percent of the transaction amount.
The savings account is fully insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. And a spokesman for Rev Worldwide, the processor and distributor of the card, says that the 5.1 percent interest rate is not an introductory offer. It is subject to fluctuation, as with any interest rate, but he said that there are no plans to make changes anytime soon. Let's hope it stays that way.
Ms. Tolf said that members can use the savings account as a personal Christmas club savings program, or simply use the card for day-to-day transactions.
When it comes to fraud, she said that cardholders are only responsible for up to $25 if someone managed to figure out their PIN and use the card.
If you'd like to open up an account but are not a member of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., you can join Working America without incurring any costs.
What do you think of the new prepaid card and its savings account?

        
ING Direct Drops Rate on Its Savings Account
        
Cutting Back (But Not on Coffee!) To Save Money
        
Singles Less Prepared for Retirement, Survey Shows
        
Banks With Consistently Generous Savings Account Rates
        
Goodbye, Paper Savings Bonds

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (91%); PREPAID CARDS (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); DEBIT CARDS (73%); RETAILERS (72%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (71%) Prepaid Cards; Savings Accounts; Banking and Financial Institutions; Interest Rates; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Savings; American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations; Review

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (62%); PAYPAL INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (94%) American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (62%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (62%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011



467 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: A Veteran Will March With Thoughts of Fellow Soldiers and Country

BYLINE: CHRIS HELLIE


HIGHLIGHT: A day before Veterans Day, Chris Hellie, who served in Iraq, considers the meaning of a well-worn path through the streets of New York. 

 BODY:
On Friday, I will walk in the Veterans Day Parade in New York City. It has been almost three years since I got back from Iraq and five months since I returned from a stint as an aid worker in Afghanistan. I am not sure what my emotions will hold, or what they will betray when I walk down those streets. Like many veterans I am uneasy with congratulatory recognition for a war that has yet to fire its last round. Mostly, I will be proud to follow a well-worn path. 
Veterans Day holds a special place in my family members' hearts, not only because I am a veteran, but because I come from one of those family's that are ubiquitous in the military but unfortunately rare in the country we live in today. My grandfather served as an infantryman in World War II, my father in Vietnam, and my only sibling, Alex, served two tours in Iraq with the 101st Airborne. There is also my mother. She never served herself, but she witnessed the grief, the remorse, the guilt, the emotional highs and lows of veterans across three generations. She witnessed the return of a father and a husband, and later said goodbye to both of her sons, all for an adopted country.
When people ask, "What does Veterans Day mean to you?" I think of my grandfather, my father, my brother, the friends I lost, and the future of our country. I will remember Adam's larger than life smile, Nick's steadfast commitment to go to West Point and Mark's ability to put you at ease. I will remember talking about the Minnesota Vikings and the merits of Joe Mauer with Specialist Rundell, and I will remember watching some of the strongest men this world has ever known cry while Taps played for Sergeant Schoolcraft. I will remember that by the time I was 26, I had been to more memorial services than people twice my age, and I will think to myself, "There has got to be a better way." 
When I walk down the streets of New York, I will feel both pride and embarrassment for the recognition that we all want, but are ashamed to receive. I will try to think back to a time when you could turn the television on and not be confronted with the realities of war, when our nation's economic growth was dependent upon the creation and nurturing of knowledge and not the destructiveness of weaponry. 
I will think of my family, my friends and the future of my country as I walk the streets of New York. I am debating if this will be my first and also my last parade. Not because I am not proud of my family, my friends, my country, and my accomplishments, but because when do you move on? As veterans we sometimes fall into the trap of self-entitlement and it can be a continuous and lonely struggle. We answered our nation's call and we put our nation's interests above our own. We did this not because we like to sleep in the mud or because we enjoy the separation from family and friends, nor because all of us believed in the cause. Rather we did it because someone had to and it might as well have been us. So, when do you stop judging those who have not served, and stop thinking about how the world does not understand, and just continue the mission, just Charlie Mike?1 When do you start rebuilding? That's what we have been trained to do, right? When the plan fails Charlie Mike. 
That is why I have high hopes for this generation of veterans, because as we continue the fight across the world, we begin the fight at home. The fight to rebuild greatness in a country, the fight to restore pride, the fight for the future. Even if their government fails, if their countrymen do not understand, if their friends are ambivalent, we will not be. As I write this, my fellow veterans are planning the future of this country in the halls of academia, on the streets of New York, and in boardrooms of America's finest corporations. On Veterans Day, I will join some of these veterans, brothers, who I have not seen in years. We will tell war stories and raise our glasses in bottomless toasts and look back at the past with pride and look forward to the future with a mixture of anxiety, yes, but also confidence and hope. 
Nec Aspera Terrent 2
1. The NATO phonetic alphabet that means "continue mission."
2. Nec Aspera Terrent, or "Frightened by no difficulties," is the motto of the First Battalion, 27th Infantry Regiment in which the author served. 

        
In Rain, an Omen of War
        
Cutting the Pain of War With a Punchline
        
President Obama Signs Veterans Tax Credit Bill
        
Combat Injuries Can Change Lives in Surprising Ways
        
From Home Fires: A U.S. Veteran Revisits Baghdad as a Civilian

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VETERANS (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); FAMILY (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%) Veterans; Veterans Day; Iraq War (2003- ); United States Defense and Military Forces; Veterans Day (US); A Soldier Writes; At War; Iraq

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); VIET NAM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2011



468 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: TaskRabbit Looks to Expand Cities and Offer an A.P.I.

BYLINE: NICK BILTON


HIGHLIGHT: TaskRabbit, a service based in San Francisco that allows people to hire strangers to run errands, has big plans. It wants to start working with other services, so that they can tap into its network and find willing gofers. It also wants to expand into other cities in the United States, as well as overseas. 

 BODY:
My colleague Jenna Wortham recently wrote about a number of companies that allow people to hire strangers to run errands. One of them was TaskRabbit, a San Francisco-based start-up.
Earlier this week I sat down with Leah Busque, founder of TaskRabbit, to find out what is next for the company.
Ms. Busque said TaskRabbit has grown dramatically since March, when the company $5received million in financing. "The number of tasks we're seeing have grown threefold since earlier this year," she said. "We're now getting as much as $4 million in bids per month on tasks." The company also recently hired a chief executive officer, Eric Grosse, she said.
Ms. Busque said the company plans to release an A.P.I., or application programming interface, in the next month that will allow other services to tap into the TaskRabbit network. TaskRabbit would then work seamlessly with other companies and services that want to hire TaskRabbits, as they are called within the company, to perform a variety of different jobs.
TaskRabbit also hopes to expand aggressively into other cities in the coming months. Next on the list is Seattle, followed by Austin, Tex.. After expanding nationally, the company will begin growing internationally, Ms. Busque said. She said the company has a waiting list of thousands of people who want to become TaskRabbits in other cities.
The type of people who perform tasks has surprised Ms. Busque. She said that when the company started in Boston, she assumed college students would make extra money performing tasks. But stay-at-home Moms, who are already out running errands, also perform a lot of tasks, as do the unemployed.
It has also become a lucrative business for some. "Our most active TaskRabbits are cashing out about $5,000 a month," Ms. Busque said. As a result, many are making tasks a full-time job.
Ms. Busque said TaskRabbit and similar companies are gaining in popularity as consumers change their views about ownership and sharing. "We are at the beginning of a change on the Web where more companies are popping up that allow people to share resources," she said. "You see people swapping clothing, sharing cars and bicycles. TaskRabbit is allowing people to share their free time. We can empower people to share themselves."
You can see a video below of Ms. Busque talking about the changing habits of consumers.

        
Obama Talks About Jobs Amid Silicon Valley Talent Wars
        
To Ensure Security, Taskrabbit Meets Its Users
        
Why Big Companies Matter in Job Creation
        
Innovation Spending Looks Recession-Resistant
        
The Economy Looks Rosier Through Google's Glasses

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (79%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (66%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (54%); EXECUTIVES (54%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%) economy; fancyhands; jobs; services; Taskrabbit; Hiring and Promotion; TaskRabbit Inc; Busque, Leah; Advertising and E-Commerce; Company News; Internet; Start-ups

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (61%)

ORGANIZATION: TaskRabbit Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



469 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Ahead of New Rules, Europe's Banks Go on a Selling Spree

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: European banks are shedding assets to cut their exposure to debt and refocus on their home markets as they prepare to follow new financial rules. 

 BODY:
LONDON - Europe's banking sector is ready for a shake-up as its largest financial institutions try to slim down their operations in response to the sovereign debt crisis.
Banco Santander, Deutsche Bank and others are trying to sell assets and loan portfolios to reduce their exposure to worrisome private and sovereign debt as part of a broad strategy to refocus on their home markets and comply with new regulatory requirements.
It is an extraordinary fire sale.
Europe's financial sector is expected to sell or write down more than $1.8 trillion in loan assets in the next decade, according to the consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers. That compares with just $97 billion from 2003 to 2010.
"The list of asset sales is the longest I've seen in 10 years," said Richard Thompson, a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers in London, who added that the final figure could rise well above $1.8 trillion. "Banks want to reshape their balance sheets to focus on specific territories or sectors."
Sales are already under way. Last week, Ireland's nationalized Anglo Irish Bank sold $3.3 billion in commercial real estate loans in the United States to Wells Fargo. In all, the Irish bank wants to offload nearly $10 billion in American loans as part of a government requirement to reduce its assets and trim its operations.
In debt-ridden Spain, Banco Santander and BBVA, the country's largest financial institutions, as well as a number of struggling savings banks are also lining up buyers for their loan portfolios. With home prices dropping 24 percent in the last four years, local banks that aggressively sold low-interest mortgages across the country are looking to reduce their real estate holdings.
With so many assets up for grabs, potential buyers with large reserves of capital are looking at potential bargains. Major private equity firms, including the Blackstone Group, Cerberus Capital Management and Apollo Global Management, are raising funds for distressed assets.
Cash-rich sovereign wealth funds have also been active. Last month, financial companies connected to the Qatar Investment Authority announced plans to acquire banking assets in Turkey and Luxembourg. The deals came after a $686 million investment in August from a fund controlled by the royal family of Qatar as part of the merger of Greece's Alpha Bank and Eurobank.
For many struggling banks, sales cannot come quickly enough. Spain's unemployment is 22.6 percent, the highest in the European Union. And the amount of nonperforming loans held by banks has increased by 36 percent since 2010, according to Citigroup analysts.
"Ireland and Spain have been the center of most of the activity in the last 12 months," said Graham Martin, a partner at the consulting firm KPMG in London. "That's now spreading to other European markets as banks look to reduce their exposure."
Regulatory pressures are forcing financial institutions to dump risky assets, too. The European Banking Authority announced plans last month to compel banks to increase their core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of their ability to withstand financial shocks, to 9 percent by June 2012.
To meet the new requirements, authorities say Europe's banks will need to raise $146 billion, either by selling assets or raising capital. That includes a combined $41 billion for struggling Greek banks.
New global banking standards, known as the Basel III, are also driving the deleveraging efforts.
Under the plans, which take effect in 2013, banks must meet new restrictions on the amount of money they are allowed to borrow and put aside extra capital reserves mostly from asset sales to offset potential future losses.
"The wave of new regulation will increase scrutiny on how banks operate," said Larry Tabb, chief executive of advisory firm TABB Group in New York.
In the short-term, Mr. Thompson of PricewaterhouseCoopers says European banks are focused on reducing their multibillion-dollar loan books of commercial property and residential mortgages. To avoid criticism from politicians and the public for selling assets in their home markets, banks are prioritizing sales in foreign markets as they look to slim down their balance sheets.
Yet some big banks may also be buyers. With so many undercapitalized financial institutions looking to offload loan portfolios, Ralph Silva, director of the London-based financial consulting firm SRN, says solidly funded global banks could use the opportunity for expansion, particularly into emerging markets.
This year, Banco Santander, the largest bank by market capitalization among the 17 countries using the euro, bought the Polish bank Bank Zachodni WBK for $5.6 billion, while London-based HSBC is looking at the Turkish arm of the troubled French-Belgian bank Dexia.
"The major banks know there are good bargains out there," Mr. Silva said. "But as long as the price keeps going down, they'll hold off on buying until we reach the bottom of the market."

        
2 European Banks Post Mixed Results
        
Qatar Bets on Hobbled European Banks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (77%); MERGERS (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (66%); HOME PRICES (50%) Alpha Bank; Anglo Irish Bank; Apollo Global Management; Banco Santander; Bank Zachodni WBK; Basel III; BBVA; Blackstone Group; Cerberus Capital Management; Deutsche Bank; Dexia; Eurobank; Europe; European Banking Authority; HSBC; Qatar Investment Authority; sovereign debt crisis; Wells Fargo &; Banking and Financial Institutions; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Banco Santander S A; Deutsche Bank AG; Deutsche Bank AG|DB|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: BANCO SANTANDER SA (92%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (91%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); ALPHA BANK AE (63%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%); EUROBANCSHARES INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (57%); IRISH BANK RESOLUTION CORP LTD (IBRC) (55%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (53%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Banco Santander S A; Deutsche Bank AG

TICKER: SANT (LIS) (92%); SANT (BIT) (92%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (92%); SAN (NYSE) (92%); SAN (MCE) (92%); SAN (BMV) (92%); BNC (LSE) (92%); DEUT (JSE) (91%); DBK (FRA) (91%); DBK (BIT) (91%); DBETN (JSE) (91%); DBA (ASX) (91%); DB (NYSE) (91%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); ALPHA (ATH) (63%); ACBD (LSE) (63%); BX (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); APO (NYSE) (53%) Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (63%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) EUROPE (96%); SPAIN (93%); IRELAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); TURKEY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GREECE (73%); LUXEMBOURG (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



470 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Groups Question Capital One's HSBC Deal

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Capital One's planned takeover of HSBC's American credit card business would face tougher scrutiny from regulators if consumer groups have their way. 

 BODY:
Consumer groups want regulators to deepen their scrutiny of Capital One's planned takeover of HSBC's American credit card business, one of two major deals that Capital One struck this year. 
The other deal, Capital One's $9 billion bid for the ING Group's online banking unit in the United States, likewise faces opposition from consumer groups who say the bank is becoming too big to fail. The groups, chiefly the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, also contend that Capital One is an aggressive subprime credit card lender. 
"It would be a mistake for the regulators to rubber-stamp Capital One's acquisition of HSBC's credit card unit, given the monoline and risky nature of their credit card business," John Taylor, chief executive of the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, said Thursday in a statement announcing his opposition to the deal. "This acquisition poses a threat to taxpayers, and raises serious antitrust and systemic risk concerns."
In a letter this week to federal regulators, the reinvestment coalition and a dozen other consumer and advocacy groups called for public hearings to examine the possible impact of the HSBC deal on consumers and the economy. 
Capital One contends it is neither too big too fail nor a giant subprime lender. Still, the ING deal would elevate Capital One, currently the eighth-largest bank in the United States, to the No. 5 spot.
About a third of Capital One's credit card portfolio carries the subprime label, defined as loans to borrowers with credit scores below 660, and the bank says that will not change significantly with its HSBC takeover. 
"Our history clearly demonstrates that our customers and communities will see numerous benefits from this acquisition," a bank spokeswoman, Tatiana Stead, said in an e-mail. 
Capital One had an acquisitive summer. In June, the bank announced plans to acquire ING Direct USA for $6.2 billion in cash. Under the terms of the deal, Capital One would also issue $2.8 billion worth of new shares to ING, giving the Dutch firm a 9.9 percent stake.
Then in August, Capital One announced the acquisition of HSBC's $30 billion American credit card portfolio. The bank paid $2.6 billion in cash and stock.
Consumer groups now want federal regulators to take a closer look at the HSBC deal. The groups, in a letter this week to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, asked the national banking regulator to extend the public comment period on the deal by 60 days . 
The groups, including the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, Americans for Financial Reform and the NAACP, also pushed for public meetings about the deal. They asked for hearings in at least five major cities -- Los Angeles, Phoenix, Atlanta, Milwaukee and New York.
"There must be a thorough investigation of Capital One's practices to determine if they will be continued, reformed, or exacerbated by the proposed purchase," the letter said. "The American people deserve a complete review of the potential impact of this deal."

        
Assailed for Subprime Loans, Capital One Defends ING Deal
        
In Fed's Move on Capital One Deal, a Test of Dodd-Frank

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (93%); HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (78%); SECURED CARDS (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); DIVESTITURES (73%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (72%); INTERNET BANKING (72%); BANKING LAW (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%) Capital One; HSBC; ING Direct; ING Direct USA; National Community Reinvestment Coalition; Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; Credit Cards; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Capital One Financial Corporation; HSBC Holdings PLC; ING Groep NV; Capital One Financial Corporation|COF|NYSE; HSBC Holdings PLC|HBC|NYSE; ING Groep NV|ING|NYSE; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (94%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); ING GROEP NV (74%); ING BANK FSB (53%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (59%) Capital One Financial Corporation; HSBC Holdings PLC; ING Groep NV; National Community Reinvestment Coalition

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (94%); HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); INGA (BIT) (74%); INGA (AMS) (74%); ING (NYSE) (74%) Capital One Financial Corporation; COF; NYSE; Capital One Financial Corporation; COF; NYSE; HSBC Holdings PLC; HBC; NYSE; Capital One Financial Corporation; COF; NYSE; HSBC Holdings PLC; HBC; NYSE; ING Groep NV; ING; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (74%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (74%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (74%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (74%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (74%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (74%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011



471 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1520 words

HEADLINE: Perry Tries to Recover From His 'Oops' Moment

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Rick Perry's cringe-worthy debate performance on Wednesday night added to the growing sense of inevitability of Mitt Romney as the Republican nominee. 

 BODY:
12:49 p.m. | Updated Rick Perry moved rapidly on Thursday to try to save his presidential campaign by laughing off questions about his departure from the race and trying to elicit empathy for a debate gaffe with a game on his Web site asking visitors what federal agency they would like to forget.
Seemingly undaunted by the flurry of mocking criticism, Mr. Perry, the governor of Texas, has decided not to try and avoid questions about his fitness to continue as a presidential contender. He will appear on CBS's "Late Show" with David Letterman tonight. On NBC's "Today" show this morning, he heartily denied having any plans to drop out.
"You bet I'm going to continue on," Mr. Perry declared in one of five appearances on television and cable networks just hours after his cringe-worthy debate moment.
Mr. Perry's campaign immediately sent out a fund-raising appeal to his supporters, noting that "we've all had human moments" and asking for money in spite of the unfortunate moment. The appeal compared Mr. Perry's debate flub to famous past incidents, including one by former President Ronald Reagan.
"Tonight Rick Perry forgot the third agency he wants to eliminate," the e-mail said. "Just goes to show there are too damn many federal agencies."
Humor appears to be a key weapon in the effort by Mr. Perry's campaign to recover. A game on his Web site cleverly asks visitors which part of the federal government they would like to forget. It invites people to send their suggestions to: forgetmenot@rickperry.org
Mr. Perry sought on Thursday to keep his campaign on track as his rivals returned to the trail.
Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, joked about his efforts at government reform at an event in Detroit, Slate reported, saying, "I have several departments in mind. I've forgotten some of them. I think the place to start is the Department of Energy." He got plenty of laughs.
Herman Cain, the former Godfather's Pizza chief executive, began a full day of events stretching into the late evening as he accepted the political gift that Mr. Perry had inadvertently given him by stealing the media spotlight away from the sexual harassment accusations swirling around his own presidential bid.
Mitt Romney, who is scheduled to hold an afternoon event at the American Polish Cultural Center, remained mum about his rival's predicament. But the impact of Mr. Perry's debate gaffe on Mr. Romney's chances to win the nomination could be significant.
Mr. Perry's presidential campaign may try to ride out his "oops" moment, but his viability as a contender for the Republican nomination was dealt a serious blow. The long minute of cringe-worthy forgetfulness, when Mr. Perry could not recall the name of the third federal agency he wanted to eliminate, will reinforce the notion that he is not capable of going toe to toe with his rivals.
Mr. Perry's entry into the race this summer was seen as the clearest threat to Mr. Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, who has struggled for months to overcome the perception that his supporters chose him reluctantly. Republican voters have lurched from one Romney alternative to another, searching for someone they feel kinship with, politically and personally.
But one by one, those alternatives have done themselves in, politically.
Gaffes. Inexperience. A lack of charisma. Just plain not knowing how to run for president. Each time surveys showed one of Mr. Romney's rivals surging, something happened to bring down the campaign.
Mr. Gingrich, the former speaker of the House, turned a hopeful start on the campaign trail into a late-night joke machine by taking long vacations and acknowledging a $500,000 line of credit at Tiffany -- at a time of economic grief for most people in the country.
Donald Trump may never have wanted to really run for president, but his decision to become the poster child for the Obama birther movement made it seem even sillier.
Tim Pawlenty's hopes of challenging Mr. Romney were set back by his indecision about when, and whether, to attack his rival. Meanwhile, Jon M. Huntsman Jr.'s candidacy fizzled from a combination of politeness and a lack of focus. He remains in the race, but stuck in the low single digits.
Michele Bachmann surged after winning Iowa, but got caught in Mr. Perry's shadow. And her habit of saying things that later stirred up controversy - or weren't true - has hampered her campaign, even in Iowa, where her socially conservative positions are popular.
And then there is Mr. Cain. 
Just as his campaign began to capture the attention of the conservative faithful, and more, Mr. Cain has found himself caught up in a full-fledged sexual harassment scandal that has consumed almost two weeks and threatens to go on for days more.
Mr. Cain once again offered a forceful declaration of innocence during Wednesday night's debate, and repeated his charge that the attacks against him are generated by the media and those out to stop his novel campaign.
"Over the last nine days, the voters have voted with their dollars, and they're saying they don't care about the character assassination, they care about leadership and getting this economy growing and all of the other problems we face," he said to hearty applause from the audience in Rochester, Mich. 
But the constant questions have no doubt taken a toll on Mr. Cain's electability. Even if he could get by states dominated by the conservative faithful, it's easy to imagine that Republican voters could have concerns about his ability to mount an effective campaign against President Obama.
Taken together, the months of campaigning have served to essentially pick apart the Republican field, clearing the way for Mr. Romney to argue that he is the best hope for the Republican party to retake the White House.
The one rival who still seemed to offer the best challenge to Mr. Romney had been Mr. Perry. Despite his struggles in the debates, he has raised millions of dollars and brings the experience of having been governor of Texas for a decade.
And then he turned to Representative Ron Paul in the debate Wednesday night, eager to describe the three federal agencies he would close down as president. 
Except he couldn't remember the third one. It was a human moment (that, indeed, was his campaign's defense as soon as the debate was over), but it was also a political nightmare that extended nearly a minute but seemed to go on forever.
The reaction was fast, furious and unrelenting in its conclusion that Mr. Perry's stumble was not only embarrassing, but quite likely devastating to his candidacy.
Larry Sabato, a professor at the University of Virginia, tweeted: "To my memory, Perry's forgetfulness is the most devastating moment of any modern primary debate."
Steve Schmidt, who helped run John McCain's presidential campaign in 2008, said on MSNBC, "It's over for him."
Within minutes, the video clip of the brain freeze was on YouTube, circulating madly. And on Twitter, numerous people started mocking Mr. Perry by coming up with famous phrases that they pretend not to be able to finish.
"That's one small step for man, one giant leap for ... for ... shoot. For bigger men?" joked Benjy Sarlin, a reporter for Talking Points Memo.
Ray Sullivan, the communications director for Mr. Perry's campaign, called the gaffe a "stumble of style but not substance," and Mr. Perry himself tried to shrug it off by telling reports that he was glad he was wearing boots because he had really "stepped in it" during the debate.
The question is, can Mr. Perry recover enough to mount a continued and sustained challenge to Mr. Romney, who has not run a flawless campaign, but has managed to avoid any serious mistakes.
That may be because Mr. Romney is the only candidate other than Mr. Paul to have made a serious run for the presidency before. Mr Romney knows the pitfalls, the pressures and has become a much more comfortable candidate this second time around.
There is no question that many Democrats, and Mr. Obama's campaign, believe that Mr. Romney will emerge from the weakened field of candidates as the Republican nominee.
Wednesday night's debate provided a new opportunity for Mr. Perry to challenge that assumption, with a forceful performance that helped end the questions about his candidacy.
Instead, Mr. Perry was left with no choice but to make the rounds of morning talk shows to somehow rebut the images that will be played and played - and replayed - on television and computer screens all day. 
"You can't name the third one?" John Harwood, one of the moderators of the CNBC debate, incredulously asked.
"The third agency of government," Mr. Perry said. "I would do away with the Education, the Commerce and - let's see - I can't. The third one, I can't. Sorry. Oops."
Oops, indeed.
An earlier version of this post incorrectly identified Larry Sabato as a Republican consultant. The center he runs at the University of Virginia is non-partisan.

        
The G.O.P. Campaign Goes On Unnoticed
        
Debate Suggests Brutish Campaign to Come
        
Christie's Decision Leaves Republicans With Stark Choice
        
What if Perry Skips the Debates?
        
Why It's Good for Romney to Be at 21 Percent

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%); POLITICS (71%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (70%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (50%) 2012 presidential election; debates; Department of Energy; Herman Cain; mitt romney; Republicans; rick perry; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Elections; The Caucus; The White House

COMPANY: GODFATHER'S PIZZA INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (52%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (94%); MITT ROMNEY (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); HERMAN CAIN (58%); DAVID LETTERMAN (54%) Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



472 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: The Latest GOP Cattle Show

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: The Republican candidates seem to think that when the government does its job it is "killing America." 

 BODY:
The Republican Party foisted another one of its endless presidential debates on television viewers last night.
The only really interesting point of the two vacuous hours was when Rick Perry, the governor of Texas, announced there were three agencies he simply wanted to do away with. This is one of the older and more tedious plays in the GOP book and you'd think any Republican who has the "small government" merit badge would have long ago memorized it. But Mr. Perry could not name all three. He forgot the Department of Energy, which among other minor tasks safeguards the nation's nuclear weapons stockpile.
As the governor said, Oops.
David Firestone, who covers politics for the editorial board, filed this dispatch on the debate.
It's easy to ridicule the governor for his brain freeze, but the real mental lapse was trying to persuade voters that these government departments are the malign forces keeping the economy from recovering. Voters may not always grasp complex economic forces, but they know that the impediment to growth is not Education's "Race to the Top" or Energy's efforts to encourage solar power and scientific innovation.
And yet candidate after candidate continued to insist that when the government does its job - either by regulating private-sector excess or intervening to save the auto industry - it is "killing America," in Mr. Perry's phrase.
The "biggest problem right now," according to Representative Michele Bachmann, the core of everything from joblessness to underwater mortgages, "is our regulatory burden," and specifically the Dodd-Frank financial reform law and health care reform.
Mitt Romney blasted the automaker bailouts, which, of course, he had previously supported, and claimed the government needs to do nothing to help millions of distressed homeowners and the profoundly wounded housing sector.
These candidates are peddling the worst kind of easy fairy tales to those voters who value simplistic prescriptions over hard choices. President Obama may have oversold the effects of his 2009 stimulus program, but it unquestionably saved millions of jobs. Mowing down regulations and government programs at the rate favored by Republican candidates might lower the deficit, but at an enormous cost to public safety, educational quality and innovation that would damage the economy for generations.
Regulations account for less than one percent of layoffs, and small businesses repeatedly say that their biggest problem is low demand, not high regulation. But these statistics are never heard at a Republican debate, where candidates survive by demanding to get rid of government rather than fix its problems.
Herman Cain constantly says that's "bold." Bunk is more like it.

        
Moderator for a Day
        
Questions for the Candidates
        
Amazing Denials
        
Fantasy Politics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); POLITICS (89%); BAILOUTS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); SOLAR ENERGY (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (69%); HOMEOWNERS (69%); LAYOFFS (65%); AUTOMAKERS (65%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (65%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (64%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (62%); MILITARY WEAPONS (55%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (50%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%) Debates (Political); Rick Perry; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Energy Department

ORGANIZATION: Energy Department

PERSON: RICK PERRY (91%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); HERMAN CAIN (58%) Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



473 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: Rick Perry's Intrade Flash Crash

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: During last night's presidential debate, Rick Perry's odds of winning the Republican nomination halved within seconds on Intrade, an online market where people bet on the odds of various events, 

 BODY:
During last night's Republican presidential debate, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas made an "oops" when he forgot the third of three federal departments he wanted to eliminate. As Nate Silver's blog post noted, Mr. Perry's odds of winning the Republican nomination halved within seconds on Intrade, an online market where people bet on the odds of various events.
The red points in the Intrade chart below show that bettors believed his chance of winning the Republican nomination fell from nearly 9 percent to a low of 3 percent:
It's amazing how quickly that happened; clearly markets process information efficiently when they have it.
It also reminded me (and others on the Twitterverse last night) of another market event from last year...
...except without the quick snap back up.
For a more in-depth take on what Wednesday night's gaffe could mean for Mr. Perry's presidential chances, check out Nate Silver's blog post.

        
Bin Laden and Inefficient Markets
        
What We're Reading: Cheap Gas and Obesity
        
Nobel Betting
        
Supreme Court Betting
        
Is Overregulation Driving U.S. Companies Offshore?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); POLITICAL DEBATES (91%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%) efficient markets hypothesis; Intrade; prediction markets; Rick Perry; Perry, Rick; Debates (Political); Presidential Election of 2012

ORGANIZATION: Intrade

PERSON: RICK PERRY (94%) Perry, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



474 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: How Obama Can Win Ohio Again

BYLINE: JOHN RUSSO


HIGHLIGHT: The pro-union vote is there to be had, but it is not a gimme. 

 BODY:
The decisive referendum vote to repeal the bill that would limit collective bargaining by public sector unions has changed the political landscape in Ohio. Tuesday's vote on Senate Bill 5 could and should be a harbinger for the 2012 presidential election. By mounting a direct assault on public sector workers and the unions who represent them, Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio may have done more to help Barack Obama win re-election than anything Obama's political team is likely to do over the next 12 months.
With Ohio's continuing high unemployment rate (9.1%!, just like the rest of the U.S), it had seemed unlikely that President Obama could win Ohio, and without Ohio, he'd have difficulty getting re-elected. The same factors make re-election a challenge for Senator Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democratic and one of the most pro-labor members of the Senate. But Kasich, the Republicans in the Ohio legislature and outside conservative financers and think tanks like the Buckeye Institute, may have done Obama and Brown a big favor.
Karl Rove described Senate Bill 5 as a much "more extensive reform" to public sector unions than was enacted in Wisconsin, in part because the Ohio version included firefighters and police officers. While the protests in Columbus were smaller and received less national attention than those in Madison, unions and community groups in Ohio organized a ballot initiative with 10,000 volunteers circulating petitions in all 88 counties. Over 1.3 million Ohioans - more than five times the number required to put the initiative on the ballot - signed the petitions.
Despite a large influx of money from conservative organizations like Citizens United, Freedom Works, and Restoring America, Ohio voters repealed Senate Bill 5 by an overwhelming 22 point margin - 39% yes, 61% no (a no vote was pro-union). Democrats and independents voted overwhelmingly against the measure, and, if pre-election polls are correct, 30% of Ohio Republicans also voted to reject Senate Bill 5.
This should be good news for Obama. While Ohio is notorious for swinging back and forth between supporting Republicans and Democrats, its 18 electoral votes are especially important for Republican candidates. It's almost impossible for a Republican to win the presidential election without Ohio, and that means winning significant support among union household voters.
According to CNN exit polls from the last few elections, union household voters remain a strong presence in Ohio, even after more than three decades of de-industrialization. Twenty-eight percent of Ohio voters come from union households, compared with 23 percent nationally. In 2008, they underperformed for Obama, who won 56 percent of their votes in Ohio versus 59 percent from union households across the country. No similar data exists for the 2010 midterm election, but many labor leaders admit that Kasich beat the Democratic governor, Ted Strickland, in part because voters from community groups and union households either voted Republican or stayed home (essentially giving half a vote to Kasich).
If union households in Ohio lost their enthusiasm for Democratic candidates in recent years, Kasich's actions, together with the national Republicans' just-say-no politics and kill-Medicare initiatives (like the Paul Ryan budget), have made the Democrats look a lot better than they did in 2010.
It all comes down to math. In 2008, 2,933,388 Ohioans voted (or 51.5%) for Obama, 258,897 more than McCain won. If union households maintain their proportion of the electorate, and if just 1 percent more of them vote for Democrats, they can add 15,700 votes to the Democratic vote and subtract the same number from the Republicans - a swing of more than 31,000 votes. If Ohio's union household voters increase their support for Democrats by 3 percent - that is, if they match the national average for union household voters - they would generate 47,100 additional votes for Obama, a swing of 94,200 votes. That alone could give the president Ohio's electoral votes.
But because of Senate Bill 5, we might reasonably expect an even larger shift. A recent Quinnipiac poll suggests that the anger generated by the anti-union bill and the organizing fostered by the effort to overturn it has 70 percent of union household voters planning to support Obama and the Democrats in 2012. That translates into an increase of 219,829 votes for Obama, a swing of almost 440,000 votes. Put differently, a mobilized Ohio labor movement with 742,000 members, including many teachers, police officers, and firefighters who have often voted Republican, will be more likely to vote for Democrats in 2012.
This gives Obama the opportunity to score a big victory in Ohio, but that won't happen solely on the basis of Senate Bill 5. The president must offer a positive economic vision and a program for economic change. The American Jobs Act - even if it must be pushed through piecemeal - is a good start, as are the president's recent actions on mortgages and student loans.
Such positions will also help Senator Brown's chances of re-election, but in 2012, in Ohio at least, the usual pattern of members of Congress benefiting from presidential coattails could be reversed. Brown's solid support for organized labor, community groups and those who have been most hurt by the continuing economic crisis - positions that resonate with the millions of Ohio voters who overturned Senate Bill 5 - may help Obama more than anything Obama has done will help Brown.
None of this is guaranteed, of course. In order for the battle over Senate Bill 5 to influence the 2012 election, those who have organized so effectively to defend unions must continue to work together. Unions will have to keep educating members and reach out to those outside of the labor movement. They will also have to work closely with community and neighborhood groups like the Ohio Organizing Collaborative, which played a pivotal role in community organizing around Senate Bill 5.
None of that will be easy. Competing interests within and between organized labor and community organizations make the coalition very fragile. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. is relatively weak in Ohio, and some tensions exist between public and private sector unions. Meanwhile, Ohio Republicans are threatening to put parts of Senate Bill 5 through in a series of smaller bills next year. Without solidarity across labor organizations, the coalition that fought so well against one big bill could fracture. It may be that other issues won't have the unifying effect of Senate Bill 5. After all, the same voters who overturned that bill approved a constitutional amendment barring the implementation of the individual insurance mandate of the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act.
But if the organizers of the campaign against Senate Bill 5 can hold together and if the Obama campaign can tap into the anger and solidarity of that fight, Tuesday's vote could turn out to be the turning point in the 2012 election.

        
The Politics of Austerity
        
Welcome Back
        
Other Stops: Greed Is Not Good
        
Media Credibility
        
Go Buckeyes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); ELECTIONS (92%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PETITIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (73%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (55%) Barack Obama; Democratic Party; John R. Kasich; Ohio; Organized Labor; presidential election; Republican Party; Kasich, John R; Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2012; Senate; Columbus (Ohio)

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Republican Party; Senate

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN KASICH (90%); SHERROD BROWN (73%); KARL ROVE (58%) Kasich, John R; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (93%) OHIO, USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Columbus (Ohio)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



475 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Ascent of a Woman

BYLINE: TIMOTHY EGAN


HIGHLIGHT: In fighting the excesses of Wall Street, Washington's mountain-climbing Senator Cantwell faces challenges tougher than Grand Teton. 

 BODY:
SEATTLE - Crawling along a ledge leading to the 13,775-foot summit of Grand Teton two months ago, Senator Maria Cantwell, Democrat of Washington, paused for an instant at the crux of the climb. The gap between her and the next solid footing was nearly half a vertical mile of thin Rocky Mountain air. 
"The guide said there was no room for mistakes," said Cantwell. "So I just never looked down." 
Having mastered a technical and demanding route up the central spire of the Teton range, Cantwell is back at sea level taking on a more elusive target - Wall Street. She has been after the lords of big finance for almost a decade, and is furious now that reforms intended to rein in the kind of car-bomb speculation that brought down the global economy have been seriously diluted. Wall Street has not changed its ways.
"People are really frustrated," she said. "Where are the regulators? Why aren't the banks lending? Where's the money for small business? Why do we only bail out the people with power?"

If populism, directed at the manipulators of paper wealth and the politicians in their pockets, is a path to electoral victory next fall then the Democrats could do no better than to look at Cantwell on this coast, and Elizabeth Warren on the other. Two women, long-belittled by the suits, have been laser-focused on corporate excess since well before protesters decided to occupy Wall Street. And in the process, they've angered many of their own party members, whose hands are soiled by "the largest lobbying force ever assembled on the face of the earth," as Warren characterized it. 
How large? At least 2,500 lobbyists from the financial industry swarmed over Washington from 2009 to early last year, spending $1.3 billion to fight reform - more than $2 million in persuading power for every member of Congress. 
A case can easily be made that the financial service sector, once a bit player in the capital, now owns the town and most of its elected inhabitants.
In "Confidence Men," Ron Suskind's book on the Obama administration's reaction to the financial collapse, Cantwell and Warren come across as heroic. They understood the inside game while many others were clueless, perhaps by intent.
Warren, the janitor's daughter from Oklahoma now running for Scott Brown's Senate seat in Massachusetts, and "the irrepressible Maria Cantwell," as Suskind called her, both bucked the consensual corporate deal-making before and after the collapse. They had "been right, and right early, about the way America's financial system was drifting toward crisis," Suskind wrote. Still, Cantwell, Warren and a few other women "had been shooed away and shouted down by the men, both those manning Wall Street and those atop Washington's regulatory or economic policy posts, who quietly asserted that high finance might be the final mountaintop stronghold of 'man's work.'"
Cantwell voted against the bank bailouts - "turning the keys of the Treasury over to Wall Street," she called it. She held up the financial reform package passed by leading Democrats last year until she could get stronger language limiting high risk and arcane securities bets. But now that the rules are being formulated for the so-called Dodd-Frank law, she is angry at how Wall Street prevailed. There are still not enough cops on the beat, she says.
"We don't have a rule to rein them in," she said, of what was intended as the main tool in the new law. "We have Swiss cheese." And if she needed any more proof that Wall Street was once again up to gaming the global economy, she got it with the recent collapse of MF Global, the brokerage firm once run by Jon S. Corzine. 
Three years after the financial meltdown, Wall Street is still fighting regulators' demands - and getting its way. The Republicans, embracing big finance, have blamed the 2008 collapse on government and deadbeat homeowners, ignoring the obvious misdeeds up the predatory chain, because it pays to ignore them. 
Unlike Warren, Senator Cantwell is not given to class-war speeches. Through two terms, she has been almost an invisible senator. In person, she underwhelms, a charm deficiency that has given rise to a nickname of "Senator Cant-smile."
But behind the scenes, Cantwell has been relentless, her work shaped by two epic financial battles in her home state. She had no sooner upset the incumbent, Senator Slade Gorton, in 2000 - winning by barely 2,000 votes - than she found herself enmeshed in a fight with the criminal energy firm Enron. The company had rigged the West Coast power market, and were caught on audio tape saying how they stole from "Grandma Millie."
The other great financial trauma was the collapse of Washington Mutual, the Seattle-based bank that died after a deep dive into the sub-prime market. It was a story of a homegrown bank lured into the big time by questionable lending at a factory pace.
At 53, Cantwell shares a house with her mother in a Seattle suburb. She grew up in an Irish-Catholic neighborhood in Indianapolis, the daughter of a construction worker and local politician. On her father's deathbed, she recalled, the priest said, "Paul, you've been a good Democrat."
Cantwell is not anti-capitalism. She made millions working in the tech sector in Seattle, and used much of the money to finance her race for the Senate. "I'm a free market person," she said. "I just don't believe in casino capitalism."
She faces no significant opposition in her run for a third term next year. Having climbed one of the signature mountains in the American West, Cantwell finds the uphill struggle against Wall Street to be slow going. On Grand Teton, at least, the dangers were transparent.

        
Don't Let Go of the Anger
        
Why Is Enough Never Enough?
        
The Reform That Wasn't
        
How Goldman Killed A.I.G.
        
What's Good for G.M. Is Good For Homeowners

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MOUNTAIN CLIMBING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); BAILOUTS (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); CLIMBING (58%) maria cantwell; Wall Street; washington state; Cantwell, Maria; Banking and Financial Institutions; Timothy Egan

PERSON: MARIA CANTWELL (93%); ELIZABETH WARREN (79%); SCOTT BROWN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Cantwell, Maria

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



476 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: At a Michigan Diner, Cain Apologizes for His "Princess Nancy" Comment

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: Herman Cain said he had apologized for referring to Nancy Pelosi, the former speaker of the House, as "Princess Nancy." 

 BODY:
YPSILANTI, Mich. - Herman Cain apologized on Thursday for referring to Nancy Pelosi, the former speaker of the House, as "Princess Nancy" during the Republican presidential debate in Michigan on Wednesday night.
"I apologized for calling her Princess Pelosi," he said, before turning the questions back on Ms. Pelosi, a Democrat. "I remember when Speaker Pelosi called me and the Tea Party people 'Astroturf.' I don't remember anybody asking about that story."
But he had apologized, he said, "So you all could stop asking me about it, O.K.?"
Mr. Cain addressed a boisterous, supportive Tea Party crowd at the Big Sky Diner here, as allegations of sexual harassment continued to dog his campaign, and after a Republican debate in Michigan where he was pressed specifically on his "character" surrounding the charges. Though Mr. Cain did not directly address the allegations, he did obliquely allude to the recent concerns surrounding his candidacy.
"You can tell that I'm going to be the president of the people and not of the politicians, because as you can tell, they're starting to come after me, they're starting to attack me - any and every way they can," he said. "Since they can't kill the ideas, they're trying to attack my integrity and my character. But the American people are not buying that."
Indeed, as diners waited for Mr. Cain to arrive, George Noye, 69, said that he didn't believe the sexual misconduct claims.
"They just don't fit to me," Mr. Noye said. "Why'd they wait so many years to come out?"
Mr. Noye said he was supporting Mr. Cain because "I just like the way he's got 9-9-9 going on," and Mr. Cain, never one to miss an opportunity to utter those three now-famous numbers, also talked briefly about his flat-tax plan.
"And do you know why 9-9-9 is becoming so popular?" he asked. "Because you the people understand it, and when you understand it, you will demand it. You're going to demand that Congress pass the 9-9-9."
Mr. Cain arrived at the packed diner in a black fedora to strains of "I Am America," and offered up defiant populism.
"How do you beat Obama?" Mr. Cain asked, as he worked the crowd after making some remarks. "Beat him with a Cain!"
A large crowd of women and men gathered outside to greet Mr. Cain, calling out support -- "Keeping it rolling, Herman!" and "You go, Herman, you stand up for yourself"- as he made his way into the 24-hour greasy spoon.
Just as Mr. Cain stepped to the microphone, saying he had hoped to eat bacon and eggs with the crowd, a man shouted: "The first real black man! The first real black man!"
Mr. Cain began by calling the United States "a nation of crises."
"We've got an economic crisis," he said, "we've got a national security crisis, we've got an entitlement spending crisis, an energy crisis, an illegal immigration crisis, a foggy foreign policy crisis, a moral crisis, and the biggest crisis we have is a severe deficiency of leadership crisis in the White House. Because of the leadership crisis, that's why stuff doesn't get fixed, that's why things just continue to get worse. This economy is on life support."
Mr. Cain referred to "that sleeping giant that we call 'We the People.' "
"That sleeping giant has awakened, and it's not going back to sleep," he said. "That sleeping giant changed control of the House in 2008, that same sleeping giant is going to change the occupant in the White House in 2012. We the people are still in charge of this country. We look at this gathering today. I'm thrilled. Why? Because you care."
The crowd cared deeply. When Mr. Cain said he wasn't asking only for their support but for their votes, too, a man standing near the front shouted, "You got it!" as his fist shook slightly. Other diners shouted out questions and comments as Mr. Cain passed through.
At one point, the mood turned particularly heated when Mr. Cain's bodyguard touched a female reporter to try to move her out of the candidate's path.
"Please do not touch me, sir!" the reporter said.
"Now you listen here, lady," the bodyguard replied, as another member of the Tea Party shouted for a "possible removal." As the press continued to trail after Mr. Cain, a Tea Party photographer turned and hissed: "God, get over it. God, you guys are crazy. You all are nuts."
Steve Lambert, 61, a self-employed scrap metal worker, raised an eyebrow as the mob tumbled by.
"What'd you do to make Christina mad?" he asked, referring to the photographer. "She doesn't hold back."
Pressed by a reporter on the nature of his beating the president with a Cain pun - did he mean with a Herman Cain, or a cane? - Mr. Cain replied: "Cain. Herman Cain. C-A-I-N. Do I have to connect all the dots for you?"
And with that, he ducked out a service door, and headed for his bus, and the waiting crowds.

        
Snag in Joint News Conference for Cain Accusers
        
Perry Tries to Recover From His 'Oops' Moment
        
The G.O.P. Campaign Goes On Unnoticed
        
Cain Accuser Claims 'Series' of Unwanted Advances
        
Caucus Video: The Cain Non-Strategy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); MISCONDUCT (75%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (74%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) Herman Cain; Cain, Herman; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; Michigan; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (94%); HERMAN CAIN (94%); BARACK OBAMA (57%) Cain, Herman

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Michigan

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011



477 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: #OccupyWallSt Roundup, Day 55

BYLINE: JILLIAN DUNHAM


HIGHLIGHT: Occupy Wall Streeters on the march to Washington are relying on the kindness of strangers to give them shelter. 

 BODY:
Protesters walking from New York City to Washington stayed with a family in Elizabeth, N.J., Wednesday night...
@NYCmarch2DC Walking Occupation
WE ARE HERE! We conquered day 1, our glorious host is preparing food and showers and wait for it... the jacuzzi if we want it #winning
Thu Nov 10 2:07:53 via Walking Occupation
...where they were joined by a Washington Post blogger, Elizabeth Flock: 
@lizflock elizabeth flock
@ricktv2007 we're in Rahway, nj now. Protesters are reinvigorated after PB&J sandwiches. #nymarch2dc
Thu Nov 10 19:41:21 via elizabeth flock
After Rahway, the going got rough: 
@lizflock elizabeth flock
Walking down the highway in jersey single file. Phone is dying and solar power charge is gone. Nj transit trains all honk. #nymarch2dc
Thu Nov 10 20:06:56 via elizabeth flock
The protesters are couch surfing on the road, under the auspices of Couchsurfing.org, a site that matches travelers and hosts. Maybe that's more comfortable than sleeping in a tent. [Atlantic Wire]
Meanwhile, back home, there seems to be a need to increase the peace. Four fightsbroke out last night in Zuccotti Park, in what protesters said was a rise in conflict there in the last few days. A medical worker was injuured while responding to one of the incidents. [Runnin' Scared, City Room]
The Police Department has reportedly assigned four veteran police officers, three homicide detectives among them, to Zuccotti Park to address crime there. [New York Post]
At the Occupy New Orleans encampment, the body of a man who had been dead for two dayswas found in a tent. The police said they found no obvious signs of trauma. [Gawker]
After protesters came up with a bicycle-powered alternative to the generators that were seized by the city Fire Department two weeks ago, the generators were returned. [City Room, Observer]
Eight protesters were arrested outside of Sotheby's on York Avenue after confronting buyers at one of the auction house's largest art sales of the year, which brought in $316 million. Downtown, protesters were arrested posing as rodeo clowns and a matador, as they tried to fight Wall Street's inanimate bull. [Observer]
On Wednesday, Occupy protesters in London joined thousands of students protesting tuition increases, and thousands of students were expected to join similar protests in Montreal Thursday. [Guardian, Globe and Mail]
An Occupy Wall Street advertisement was expected to air Wednesday night during "The O'Reilly Factor," the Fox News talk show of the conservative host Bill O'Reilly. "You can't just preach to the converted," said the director of the commercial, David Sauvage, who also made ads recently for The Wall Street Journal. [MarketWatch]
Conservative pundits have Occupy Wall Street on the brain, even if many of them claim the movement is over. Andrew Breitbart and Jonah Goldberg criticized the protest movement at the Defending the American Dream Summit. On the airwaves Wednesday, Sean Hannity played anti-Semitic comments by people he said were protesters, who, he said, "sound like skinhead Nazi psychos." [NPR, Media Matters]
With lots of blame for the country's economic woes going around, an interactive graphic illustrates Americans' level of support for Occupy Wall Street and which institutions they believe are responsible for the downturn. [New York Times]

        
Zuccotti Park Protester Charged With Assault
        
#OccupyWallSt Roundup, Day 54
        
#OccupyWallSt Roundup, Day 53
        
At Zuccotti Park, a Sound of the '60s
        
Video: Crosby and Nash at Zuccotti Park

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); AUCTIONS (85%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (83%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (83%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (79%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); TUITION FEES (74%); ARRESTS (74%); HOMICIDE (74%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); SOLAR ENERGY (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); RODEOS (60%) Occupy Wall Street; Zuccotti Park (NYC); #OccupyWallSt Roundup

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (61%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Occupy Wall Street

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (61%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (61%)

PERSON: BILL O'REILLY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Zuccotti Park (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011



478 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Breakfast Meeting, Nov. 10

BYLINE: NOAM COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: A gaffe by Gov. Rick Perry of Texas during a G.O.P. debate on CNBC led to some fast post-debate "spinning" that promised to continue into the morning. 

 BODY:
The Republican presidential debate on Wednesday night, which was shown on CNBC and was supposed to be devoted to economic issues, became memorable for a major gaffe by Gov. Rick Perry of Texas. His very public, very awkward inability to come up with the name of a third federal agency he would like to eliminate was taken as a devastating error. Gone, for the moment, was the media focus on sexual harassment allegations that have emerged against Herman Cain, who has been leading in public opinion polls. So much so that immediately afterward, when asked on CNBC whether Mr. Perry was doomed by the performance, Mr. Cain was reassuring about a forgiving public. [NYT]

        
The gaffe was quickly followed by an unprecedented effort at spin by the candidate himself. The so-called "spin room" is usually staffed by surrogates for the candidates, but Mr. Perry entered to tell reporters there: "I'm glad I had my boots on tonight. I stepped in it out there." [Politico]
        
The NBC political director Chuck Todd wrote on Twitter around midnight that the spinning would continue into the morning, with Mr. Perrry "roadblocking morning shows tmro."
        
The debate, which was focused on economic issues, included a ticker at the bottom of the CNBC screen with a feed of Twitter posts appearing where stock prices normally would be. It made for distracting, even jarring, television, as when the political analyst Larry Sabato's Twitter take on the Perry gaffe- "To my memory, Perry's forgetfulness is the most devastating moment of any modern primary debate" - appeared onscreen while the candidates were still on the stage.
        
The political fallout was swift at the online futures site Intrade, where shares in Mr. Perry to be the Republican nominee lost two-thirds of their value, reflecting a predicted 3.7 percent likelihood of success.
The news that Joe Paterno, the head football coach of Penn State, was fired on Wednesday night in the wake of a sexual abuse scandal involving a prominent former assistant coach interrupted coverage of a football game on ESPN and dominated cable news shows. As hundreds of students marched in the streets in support of Mr. Paterno, the student newspaper there, The Daily Collegian, gave updates on Twitter. Around midnight, the campus police were said to be using mace on students and the protesters were reported to be turning over a van from a local TV station covering the scandal.
@DailyCollegian The Daily Collegian
Students are standing on top of the overturned news van yelling "We want Joe." #PSUCharges
Thu Nov 10 5:10:35 via The Daily Collegian

        
The Sports Illustrated writer Jack McCallum looked back at his 1999 profile of Jerry Sandusky, the former Penn State defensive coach at the center of the sexual abuse allegations. The article was focused on Mr. Sandusky's children's charity, Second Mile, and Mr. McCallum wrote that he didn't even remember writing it until a friend e-mailed to say, "I guess you feel like a jerk." [Sports Illustrated]
The film producer Brian Grazer is stepping in to produce next year's Oscar awards show, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences said on Wednesday. The move is intended to quickly repair the damage caused by the sudden departures of the ceremony's co-producer, Brett Ratner, and its host, Eddie Murphy. [NYT]
Michael Cieply surveys the crowd of big-budget, big-director movies set for release around Christmas. Six movies are coming from five of the major studios -- with production and marketing costs approaching $1 billion. Among them are "The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo," directed by David Fincher; "The Adventures of Tintin," directed by Steven Spielberg; and "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol," directed by Brad Bird. [NYT]
Two tech sites published stories that give reasons for measured optimism about Amazon's new Kindle Fire tablet. TechCrunch reported that Amazon had upped its order to five million units: "It's a drop in the bucket compared with iPad sales, but the Amazon board is probably breathing a collective sigh of relief, having spent a huge sum of money developing the device." GigaOM reported on a survey that found interest in the Fire among early adopters, perhaps at the expense of the iPad. [TechCrunch, GigaOM]
The Web site Kottke.org takes note of a Christmas gift for the person who has ... a large DVD cabinet: a 104-disc set of every episode of "Law & Order" covers 20 seasons, 456 episodes, weighs in at 10 pounds and lists for $699. [Kottke.org]

        
New Nook Is Latest Entry in Tablet Wars
        
CNBC Expands Two Programs and Cancels Two Others
        
Hollywood Assessing New Rules Governing Oscar Campaigns
        
CNBC Names New Anchors to 'Squawk on the Street'
        
CNBC Marks the Death of Anchor Mark Haines

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); SCANDALS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (87%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); 2011 PENN STATE SEX ABUSE SCANDAL (85%); SPORTS (85%); SPORTS & RECREATION (85%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (84%); POLITICS (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); SEX SCANDALS (78%); WRITERS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (64%); CHARITIES (60%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (60%); CAMPUS SECURITY (60%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (59%) academy awards; Brian Grazer; CNBC; debates; ESPN; Kindle Fire; Television

PERSON: RICK PERRY (90%); JOE PATERNO (78%); HERMAN CAIN (73%); BRIAN GRAZER (50%); JERRY SANDUSKY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011



479 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Flattery (Sincere?) Lightly Dusted With Irony

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
The Whitney Museum of American Art's survey of paintings, sculptures and photographs by the appropriation artist Sherrie Levine has a provocative subtitle, ''Mayhem.'' That's strong language but not out of place.
For more than 30 years Ms. Levine has been slyly lifting images and forms from works by well-known Modernist artists and photographers, using them, her admirers maintain, in ways that undermine conventional notions of originality, artistic mastery and authorship. Her goal has apparently been to expose evils like the commodification or fetishization of the unique art object and to chip away at the myths of individual creativity that have historically served male artists and their markets.
But nothing close to mayhem occurs in this exhibition. Over all it is disappointingly sedate, resembling a tastefully appointed art boutique full of fastidious, expensive-looking objects lightly dusted with irony. I'd like to think that Ms. Levine is a better artist than this, but I'm not sure. Whatever life her art has mustered in the past seems to have been mostly left at the door. 
Ms. Levine emerged around 1980, taunting the art world by photographing photographs by Modernist masters like Edward Weston and Walker Evans that were indistinguishable from the originals, before adding painting and then sculpture to her repertory. She was a founding member of the Pictures Generation, and her fellow travelers, where rephotography was concerned, included Richard Prince and Barbara Kruger.
Twenty-one of the Evans images -- rephotographs of his Depression-era pictures of Southern sharecroppers, humble cabins and weather-worn churches titled ''After Walker Evans'' -- start off the Whitney show. They still represent '80s appropriation art at its most seamlessly provocative: a mental if not a visual affront, well-enough executed to read also as a tribute. But it is the clarity and passion of Evans's images that hold us more than Ms. Levine's subversive gesture.
Other works here borrow in various ways from photographs by Karl Blossfeldt and Alfred Stieglitz; sculptures by Duchamp and Brancusi; paintings by Monet, Mondrian and Ludwig Kirchner. An image by Man Ray receives especially lavish translation, in the form of four identical, fully life-size renditions of a Victorian-looking billiards table, with mannered, bulbous legs, that project, almost like a diving board, into Man Ray's goofy 1938 painting ''La Fortune.'' (It is owned by the Whitney, and as luck would have it, is on view in its second-floor galleries.)
Fabricated of dark, gleaming mahogany sodded with lush green felt, in 1990, Ms. Levine's tables form a wry comment on Minimalism, especially on Donald Judd's big repeating boxes and planes of saturated color, and on the movement as a kind of men's club. And it's not often that a fairly familiar Surrealist image is so expertly rendered as an object.
Although Ms. Levine's show covers 30 years, it is not a retrospective; the news release describes it as ''a project developed by the artist in collaboration'' with the show's organizers: the art historian and critic Johanna Burton and Elisabeth Sussman, a Whitney curator, working with Carrie Springer, a senior curatorial assistant. The implication that the artist had unusual control may explain why this presentation is more like a big, commercial gallery show than like a carefully considered career summation.
The works here indicate that Ms. Levine is at her most provocative as a photographer and at her best as a painter, and that -- the frisson of the billiard tables aside -- she should mostly avoid sculpture. In her hands refined materials and attractive display are ends in themselves, and empty ones, at that. My first impression of the show was that had she been born a generation earlier, she would have been a card-carrying Minimalist, and that she has increasingly succumbed to just the kind of fetishization and preciousness that her work initially sought to expose.
There are occasional exceptions. Her two polished-bronze versions of Duchamp's best-known readymade -- the humble urinal that he placed on its back and renamed ''Fountain'' -- underscore its assimilation as high art, and titling them ''Fountain (Buddha)'' and ''Fountain (Madonna)'' cleverly yet irrevocably alters their meaning. Suddenly these curving, hooded objects read as hospitable niches ready made, as it were, for spiritual statues. It is a striking transformation.
Other works involve effective expansions of Duchamp's ''Large Glass,'' the shorthand title for ''The Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors, Even'' in the Philadelphia Museum of Art. For these Ms. Levine extrapolated the abbreviated silhouettes of the six rapacious bachelors into sculptures, also in polished bronze. And she dispersed the wolf pack by isolating each sculpture in its own cherry-wood vitrine, laid out and objectified, as women so often are by men.
In Ms. Levine's versions of Brancusi's ovoid ''Newborn,'' the semi-abstract head of a wailing infant, which she renders in cast glass and cast crystal, veers too closely to museum-gift-shop fare. And a series of eight glass human skulls in separate vitrines demonstrates that without a specific art historical source, the sculptures go mute, unless they are just plain awful. A polished-bronze cast of a skeleton of a two-headed calf, ''False God,'' seems aimed at the art market but is an ostentatious cliche.
In the mid 1980s, Ms. Levine began making small, enticing watercolors of famous paintings, meticulously copied from art books. This meant that their colors might be distorted (I remember a greenish Mondrian), or they might be grisaille, if the reproduction was in black and white. These works have an economy similar to that of Ms. Levine's rephotographs, as well as a feminizing wit; but there's no sign of them here, which is too bad.
In painting, Ms. Levine has largely avoided the simple one-to-one translation of strict appropriation that plagues her sculptures. Instead her grids and stripes suggest game boards or paneling -- generic forms of abstraction at large in the culture rather than associated with an individual artist. Her efforts are very much painting about painting, which suggests an element of calculation, but they provide the show's most genuine moments.
In several works in casein on 24-by-20-inch mahogany panels, the surfaces are soft, almost powdery; the colors alternate pungent pastels of cantaloupe and purple, or lime and spruce in three wide verticals and a narrow fourth, an imbalance that makes the painting read as a fragment of a larger one.
The 5-by-4-foot sheets of plywood she turned to in the late 1980s came with their abstraction built in: she simply painted their random elliptical plugs in either gray or gold. These works, which didn't impress me when they were made, look quite strong today, perhaps because the wood has darkened. The tensions between the hard-edge painted ellipses and the undulating patterns of grain have a pictorial liveliness, one whose rhythms and contrasts are never quite the same from work to work.
Even when Ms. Levine copies images of Krazy Kat and Ignatz on small wood panels, she makes sparks. Whether or not she believes in the artist's touch, she has a distinctive one. And it occasionally prevails amid the elegant decor of this airless show.
''Sherrie Levine: Mayhem'' runs through Jan. 29 at the Whitney Museum of American Art, ; (212) 570-3600, whitney.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sherrie Levine: Mayhem: Cast-crystal skulls in vitrines are part of this show at the Whitney Museum of American Art. (C25)
Ms. Levine's four billiard tables based on ''La Fortune,'' at the Whitney, which also holds the original Man Ray painting.
Ms. Levine's ''False God'' (2008) is a bronze cast of a skeleton of a two-headed calf. On the wall are her paintings on wood panels ''Krazy Kat: 1'' (1998) and ''Black Splattered'' (1991).
 Sherrie Levine's ''Fountain (Madonna)'' (1991), a polished-bronze version of Duchamp's ''Fountain,'' at the Whitney. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); PAINTING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); MEN (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



480 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: South Sudan Accuses Sudan of Bombing Civilian Camp Amid Fears of War

BYLINE: By JOSH KRON

 BODY:
NAIROBI, Kenya -- Civilians fled as bombs fell on a camp for displaced people in South Sudan on Thursday, and President Salva Kiir accused the Sudanese government of planning to invade his newly independent nation.
Less than six months after South Sudan broke away from Sudan, an act that was the culmination of a peace accord to end decades of civil war, tensions between the neighbors are crystallizing into fears of direct confrontation.
Speaking in South Sudan's capital, Juba, Mr. Kiir denounced the Sudanese government for threatening what he called a ''military invasion'' of South Sudan, and he rejected accusations by the Sudanese government that his country was arming Sudanese rebels as ''utterly baseless and malicious.'' 
Mr. Kiir has also accused the Sudanese government of bombing the South Sudanese area of Guffa in recent days, killing at least seven people and potentially moving the insurgencies on both sides of the border closer to an international conflict.
The United States issued a statement on Thursday condemning ''in the strongest possible terms'' what it called ''negative developments'' between the nations, particularly the airstrike by the Sudanese forces.
''The provocative aerial bombardments near the border increase the potential of direct confrontation between Sudan and South Sudan,'' the American statement said. Sudan has denied striking South Sudanese territory.
Nevertheless, on Thursday afternoon an Antonov bomber dropped four bombs on the South Sudanese area of Yida, hitting a refugee camp of roughly 21,000 people, some of them northern Sudanese who had crossed the border since the rebellion in Sudan began.
According to an aid worker with knowledge of the event, two bombs fell on an airstrip, one hit a school and one landed on a market, but did not detonate. There were varying reports of casualties, but none could be confirmed.
While the two nations continue to discuss how to split lucrative oil revenues and the fate of the contested region of Abyei, a spreading rebellion inside Sudan has prompted the Sudanese government to accuse the south of providing military support to the rebels.
Last week, the Sudanese government lodged a formal complaint with the United Nations Security Council, arguing that South Sudan was trying to start a border war.
''We don't have any intention to go to war again, but it is now up to the southern government to either strengthen its state without hostility, or to disturb us,'' said a Sudanese government spokesman, Rabie A. Atti. ''If they come to war, they will lose a lot.''
Many residents in the Sudanese provinces of Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile fought alongside the south during its civil war with the north. But the 2005 peace treaty placed the two provinces in Sudan's territory, leaving South Sudan to hold a referendum to decide its own fate. In January, the South Sudanese voted almost unanimously to secede from the rest of the country. Their fellow combatants in Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile remained on the other side of the border, and an armed rebellion soon began.
''We are ready to fight and continue until we reach Khartoum,'' the Sudanese capital, said one of the rebel leaders, Abdel Aziz al-Hilu, in a September interview. ''We are prepared for a protracted war, a long war,'' he added, ''in order to see this regime ousted.''
In return, the Sudanese military has clamped down hard on the rebellion, filling the skies over Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile with Antonov bombers, some of which have flown over South Sudanese territory, too. A satellite imaging project organized by the Enough Project, an advocacy group, has published what it says is evidence of mass graves in the rebellious regions, and the United Nations has said the military activity could amount to war crimes.
The United States, a close partner of South Sudan, had made strong overtures to the government in Sudan, saying that if it cooperated peacefully with South Sudan's transition to independence, economic sanctions on the country could be lifted.
But last week, President Obama seemed to change his mind, calling for sanctions to be extended over what he called ''hostile'' actions on the part of the Sudanese government that posed an ''unusual and extraordinary threat'' to American foreign policy.
''They promised us a lot of things; nothing actually implemented,'' said Mr. Atti, the Sudanese government spokesman. ''It's unfair.''
South Sudan -- or Sudan -- can ill afford a new war. The economies of both nations are in a delicate state, with Sudan suffering from a loss of oil income since South Sudan's independence, and protests springing up in the streets of Khartoum early this year.
As for South Sudan, it is one of the least developed countries in the world. Furthermore, it faces a number of internal rebellions itself, particularly in provinces near the border, and it has accused the Sudanese government of backing militias there.
''The overall view is that they have to exist with the other side,'' said Aly Verjee, a senior researcher at the Rift Valley Institute. ''Even if you don't trust them so much, and if they are meddling in your own sovereign territory, there is a lot riding on that.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (90%); DISPLACED PERSONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); REFUGEES (78%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); REFERENDUMS (50%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (90%); KHARTOUM, SUDAN (79%) SUDAN (99%); KENYA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



481 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 2363 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Jazz
Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/jazz.
J.D. Allen Quartet (Tuesday through Nov. 20) The harmonically adventurous tenor saxophonist J.D. Allen has done strong work in recent years with a pianoless trio, featuring the bassist Gregg August and the drummer Rudy Royston. For this engagement he augments that unit with Orrin Evans, a pianist more than capable of joining the conversation, and also a likely catalyst. At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; $25 cover, with a one-drink minimum. (Nate Chinen)
Michael Bates Quintet (Saturday) The bassist Michael Bates brings a prickly fluency to his bandleading and arranging on ''Acrobat: Music for, and by, Dmitri Shostakovich,'' his new Sunnyside release. He also puts a lot of interpretive power in the hands of his band mates, all of whom -- the trumpeter Russ Johnson, the multireedist Chris Speed, the pianist Russ Lossing and the drummer Tom Rainey -- will take part in this album-release show. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $15, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen) 
Ralph Bowen Quartet (Saturday) On his sturdy new album, ''Power Play'' (Posi-Tone), the tenor and soprano saxophonist Ralph Bowen puts hard bop traditionalism through the wringer, with a block of original tunes for a cohesive band. His personnel here is different but still worthy: Jim Ridl on piano, Kenny Davis on bass and Gene Jackson on drums. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $20 and $10 for members. (Chinen)
- Brooklyn Babylon (Friday and Saturday) An intriguing multimedia collaboration between the graphic artist Danijel Zezelj and the jazz composer Darcy James Argue, ''Brooklyn Babylon'' concerns itself with issues of development and dystopia in a certain borough at an uncertain future date. The piece, part of the Next Wave Festival at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, involves projected animation, live-action painting and an original score executed by Mr. Argue's 18-piece band, the Secret Society. At 7:30 p.m., Harvey Theater, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $20, $14 for season tickets. (Chinen)
The Checkout: Live From 92YTriBeCa, Featuring Lage Lund and Warren Wolf (Wednesday) Presented by 92YTriBeCa and ''The Checkout,'' an hourlong radio program on WBGO-FM (88.3), this series spotlights up-and-comers in a companionable double bill. Mr. Lund, a guitarist, and Mr. Wolf, a vibraphonist, appear one after the other, bringing an abundance of technique, a firm foothold in tradition and a solid working band. At 8 p.m., 200 Hudson Street, at Canal Street, (212) 601-1000, 92ytribeca.org; $12 in advance, $15 on day of show. (Chinen)
- John Coltrane's Ascension, Featuring... (Wednesday) Last year around this time, the Jazz Standard hosted a 50th anniversary party for the Impulse! label, with musicians recreating classic albums from the catalog. This one-nighter picks up that thread, honoring ''Ascension'' -- a landmark of free jazz, and a singular moment on the Coltrane timeline -- with an all-star cast that includes the saxophonists Joe Lovano, Vincent Herring, Donny McCaslin and Sabir Mateen. Also in the ranks are the trumpeter Jeremy Pelt, the trombonist Josh Roseman, and an ace rhythm section anchored by two drummers, Billy Drummond and Matt Wilson. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $25 cover. (Chinen)
- Chick Corea (Friday through Nov. 27, except on Mondays) Mr. Corea has adopted an array of instrumental formats over the years, from solo piano to orchestra, and this month, to commemorate his 70th birthday, he's taking part in a whole mess of them. This weekend he performs with the vibraphonist Gary Burton and the Harlem String Quartet; from Tuesday through Thursday he presents From Miles, a group of alumni of Miles Davis's bands, including the saxophonist Gary Bartz and the drummer Jack DeJohnette. A full schedule is available at the club's Web site. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; $65 cover at tables, $45 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)
Patrick Cornelius Quintet (Wednesday) A bright young alto saxophonist working in the postbop mainstream, Patrick Cornelius has a new album, ''Maybe Steps'' (Posi-Tone), that features two of the sterling partners found here: the guitarist Miles Okazaki and the bassist Peter Slavov. Rounding out the group are the pianist Aaron Goldberg and the drummer Obed Calvaire. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $15 cover. (Chinen)
Cryptogramophone at the Stone (Friday through Sunday) Cryptogramophone, a stylishly progressive Los Angeles label run by the violinist Jeff Gauthier, has temporarily taken over the Stone, airing out its left-of-center aesthetic one show at a time. Closing out the run are a handful of compatible ensembles, including a duo consisting of the drummer Scott Amendola and the guitarist Charlie Hunter (Friday at 8 p.m.); Los Totopos, led by the alto saxophonist Tim Berne (Friday at 10 p.m.); the Alt.Timers Trio, with Denman Maroney on prepared piano (Sunday at 8 p.m.); and the Ken Filiano Trio (Sunday at 10 p.m.). At 8 and 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; $10 cover per set. (Chinen)
Cuneiform at the Stone (Tuesday through Nov. 30, except Mondays) The genre-blending ethos of Cuneiform Records, an independent label out of Silver Spring, Md., finds a regular perch this month at the Stone. Among the coming highlights are the smartly rugged band Ideal Bread, playing on Tuesday both alone (at 8 p.m.) and with the trombonist Roswell Rudd (at 10 p.m.); Joel Forrester's Secret Identity, led by Mr. Forrester, a pianist and composer (Wednesday at 10 p.m.); and Positive Catastrophe, a group rumbling around the spaces between Latin jazz and the avant-garde (Thursday at 10 p.m.). At 8 and 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; $10 cover. (Chinen)
David Gilmore and Art of Ascension (Friday) The guitarist David Gilmore has a pronounced fondness for metric convolution, jigsaw complexity and a near-mystical spirit of intrigue. In his fusionesque new band, he works with the pianist James Hurt, the bassist Felix Pastorius and the drummer Nate Smith. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $20, $10 for members. (Chinen)
- Jim Hall Quartet (Tuesday through Nov. 19) Jim Hall's economical style and harmonic command have made him a quietly imposing hero of jazz guitar -- and, at 80, an indisputable legend. He has made this engagement an annual tradition, working with a springy and responsive rhythm section. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $30 general seating; $40 premium seating, with a $10 minimum. (Nate Chinen)
Fred Ho: The Sweet Science Suite (Sunday and Monday) Fred Ho, the indefatigable saxophonist, bandleader and composer, conceived of this interdisciplinary work -- subtitled ''A Scientific Soul Music Honoring of Muhammad Ali'' -- during his recent struggle with colon cancer, as he drew inspiration from Mr. Ali's life in and out of the ring. The piece, which receives its world premiere here, will feature Mr. Ho's Green Monster Big Band and five male dancers, with choreography by Christal Brown. At 7:30 p.m., Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423 3500, guggenheim.org; $30, $25 for members, $10 for students under 25. (Chinen)
Randy Ingram Quartet (Thursday) The self-possessed young pianist Randy Ingram released his debut as a leader two years ago: ''The Road Ahead'' (BJU), featuring a band with the bassist Matt Clohesy and the drummer Jochen Rueckert. Those partners rejoin him here, in a quartet that also features the fine guitarist Mike Moreno. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $15, $10 for members in the first set; $10, $5 for members in the second set. (Chinen)
- Bill McHenry Quartet (Tuesday through Sunday) The tenor saxophonist Bill McHenry has a gorgeous new album, ''Ghosts of the Sun'' (Sunnyside), that showcases his patient, rhapsodic music for a well broken-in band anchored by the master drummer Paul Motian. The personnel is different here, as the mood seems likely to be: his quartet will feature the pianist Orrin Evans, the bassist Eric Revis and another, more pugnacious master drummer, Andrew Cyrille. At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; $25 cover, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)
- David Murray Cuban Ensemble (Thursday) On his vibrant new album, ''Plays Nat King Cole en Espanol'' (Motema), the veteran tenor saxophonist David Murray applies his huge tone and personality to an unusual bit of jazz repertory: interpreting songs from a pair of worldly albums recorded by Cole roughly half a century ago. Mr. Murray convened a handful of Cuban musicians for the album, recording in Argentina, Portugal and France; he has a different but similarly promising cohort here, with players like the saxophonists Yosvany Terry and Antonio Zamora. At 8 p.m., Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, 566 La Guardia Place, at Washington Square, Greenwich Village, (212) 352-3101, skirballcenter.nyu.edu; $30. (Chinen)
The Music of Astor Piazzolla (Friday and Saturday) Jazz at Lincoln Center pays tribute to the father of nuevo tango with this concert, featuring the clarinetist and saxophonist Paquito D'Rivera, who has a recent album with the same premise. Also on hand are the bassist Pablo Aslan, a tango-jazz specialist; the pianist Pablo Ziegler, one of Piazzolla's former sidemen; and the drummer Pipi Piazzolla, the maestro's grandson and a prime figure on the current Buenos Aires scene. At 8 p.m., Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 721-6500, jalc.org; $10 to $120. (Chinen)
Jeremy Pelt Quintet (Friday and Saturday) Jeremy Pelt is a postbop trumpeter with the total package: fast action, bladelike articulation, a full-featured tone. And as he has proved in recent years, he's a decisive bandleader who gets the most out of his colleagues, notably the tenor saxophonist J.D. Allen, his front-line partner here. At 8, 10 and 11:30 p.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; $30 cover, with a variable minimum. (Chinen)
Arturo Sandoval (Wednesday through Nov. 11) Mr. Sandoval is a Cuban trumpeter best known for stratospheric bravado: he is capable of subtlety, though not often predisposed toward it. Yet his most recent album, ''A Time for Love'' (Concord), finds him working in a softly burnished mode, caressing melodies by Faure, Ravel, Cole Porter and Michel Legrand. It's a winsome play against type that should work just as well in concert -- should he decide to go that route, with a band that includes the saxophonist Ed Calle and the drummer Alexis Arce. At 8 and 10 p.m., Iridium Jazz Club, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, theiridium.com; $40 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
Mark Shim Quartet (Friday) The tenor saxophonist Mark Shim has been an elusive figure in jazz over the last decade, since the release of his most recent Blue Note album. You may have heard him in ensembles led by a couple of his peers, the pianist Vijay Iyer and the alto saxophonist Steve Lehman. But his outings as a leader are few and far between, which should pique some interest for this one, with a band that includes the pianist Luis Perdomo, the bassist Burniss Earl Travis and the drummer Damion Reid. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $15 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
Mary Stallings with Eric Reed Trio (Tuesday through Nov. 20) A jazz singer of soulful instinct and deep experience, Ms. Stallings has worked for more than a decade with the poised pianist Eric Reed, on many bandstands and several albums, most recently ''Dream'' (HighNote). Rounding out the rhythm section are Reuben Rogers on bass and Carl Allen on drums. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; $30 to $35 cover, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar; $15 for students at select sets. (Chinen)
Loren Stillman Trio Featuring Joey Baron (Sunday) Loren Stillman, a smart young alto saxophonist with an inquisitive relationship to jazz conventions, seems always to team up with strong rhythm sections, and he definitely has the makings of one here, with Mr. Baron, the deft, unsinkable drummer, and Dave Ambrosio on bass. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $10 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
Greg Ward's Phonic Juggernaut (Wednesday) ''Phonic Juggernaut'' (Thirsty Ear) is the potent new album by Mr. Ward, a versatile and enterprising alto saxophonist from Chicago; it's also the name of this flexible band, with Joe Sanders on bass and Damion Reid on drums. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $10 cover, with $10 minimum. (Chinen)
Ben Williams and Sound Effect (Tuesday) As on ''State of Art'' (Concord), his polished recent debut, the bassist Ben Williams offers his portrait of modern jazz at the crossroads of pop and R&B, with help from the saxophonist Marcus Strickland, the guitarist Matt Stevens and the drummer Jamire Williams, among others. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $20 cover. (Chinen)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: JIM HALL QUARTET: (Tuesday through Nov. 19) Jim Hall's economical style and harmonic command have made him a quietly imposing hero of jazz guitar -- and, at 80, an indisputable legend. He has made this engagement an annual tradition, working with a springy and responsive rhythm section. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com
$30 general seating
$40 premium seating
 with a $10 minimum. (Nate Chinen) (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (92%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); MUSIC REVIEWS (79%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (79%); RECORD RELEASES (79%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (67%); ANIMATION (61%); VISUAL ARTS (61%); THEATER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



482 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Theme Parks Help Drive a Strong Quarter for Disney

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- If demand for spinning teacups is any indicator, consumers are more confident than anyone thought.
The Walt Disney Company reported robust fourth-quarter earnings on Thursday, saying that its theme parks -- closely watched as an informal barometer of discretionary spending in the broader economy -- saw operating income climb 33 percent, to $421 million. The primary reason was an end to the deep discounting that Disney put in place to prop up attendance during the height of the recession. 
Attendance at Disney's parks in Florida and California was only up 1 percent, but per capita spending rose 9 percent on higher ticket prices and increased spending on food and merchandise. ''Spending is increasing at a pretty heavy level,'' said Jay Rasulo, Disney's chief financial officer, on a conference call with analysts. Mr. Rasulo added that group bookings have increased by ''leaps and bounds.''
It was a robust quarter all around for Disney, with operating income in every major division climbing by double-digit percentages. After parks, the strongest performer was Disney's television business -- ESPN, Disney Channel, ABC -- with a 20 percent increase in operating income, to $1.46 billion. Disney Channel experienced solid international ad growth, while ABC benefitted from lower programming costs.
For the quarter ended Oct. 1, Disney reported a profit of $1.09 billion, or 58 cents a share, a 30 percent increase from $835 million, or 43 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue climbed 7 percent, to $10.43 billion.
Analysts had been expecting a profit of about 55 cents a share for the most recent quarter. Disney shares climbed more than 3 percent in after-hours trading, to $35.78.
Disney's fiscal year results were also strong, although Disney's movie studio fell short of its performance in the previous year and losses at the company's video game and Internet division mounted. Net income for the year rose 21 percent, to $4.8 billion, from $3.96 billion. Revenue was up slightly at $40.89 billion.
Moviemaking continues to vex Disney. For the quarter, Walt Disney Studios recorded a 13 percent increase in operating profit, to $117 million, because of lower write-downs and strong ticket sales for ''The Help'' and ''The Lion King 3-D.'' But ''Cars 2'' did not meet expectations and most of the studio's quarterly operating profit came from merchandising sales.
Robert A. Iger, Disney's chief executive, restated the company's strategy to ''make fewer, more profitable movies'' and singled out ''The Muppets,'' set for a Thanksgiving release, as a potential blockbuster.
In his remarks, Mr. Iger drew attention to Disney's international business as an improved growth engine, noting a deal for a Disney Channel in Russia, the start of building a Disney World-style resort in China and the acquisition of one of India's leading entertainment companies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (88%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); TOYS & GAMES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MOVIE REVENUES (77%); TICKET SALES (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (67%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%); WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (81%); DISNEY-ABC TELEVISION GROUP (58%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (81%)

PERSON: ROBERT A IGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



483 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: A Shortsighted Victory in Delaying the Keystone Pipeline

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LEVI. 
Michael Levi is a senior fellow for energy and the environment at the Council on Foreign Relations.

 BODY:
AFTER months of protests and more than a thousand arrests , environmental activists have succeeded in getting the United States government to indefinitely delay approval of the Keystone XL pipeline, which would carry oil-laden bitumen from Canada to the Gulf Coast. They are understandably jubilant, but their celebrations are shortsighted. The tactics and arguments that have won the day are ultimately as likely to retard clean energy development as they are to thwart dirty fuels.
The anti-Keystone movement originally focused its message on climate change. The argument was simple: increased greenhouse gas emissions from Alberta's oil sands would be devastating for the planet. But that message was not enough. So campaigners joined forces with an unusual set of allies: Nebraska landowners and politicians, many of them pro-oil Republicans, who simply did not want a pipeline running through their backyards. That approach appears to have paid off. The State Department has justified its new delay in deciding on the pipeline application by announcing that it will be conducting an assessment of alternative pipeline routes. That rationale speaks squarely to the local Nebraska opposition, and says nothing about the climate concerns. 
Yet oil pipelines are hardly the only pieces of energy infrastructure that will require government approval in coming years. This is particularly true if the United States wants to build a new clean-energy economy.
The country has already seen strong opposition to offshore wind energy in Massachusetts, including from environmental activists and local landowners, on the grounds that it will ruin spectacular ocean views. Solar plants will need to be built in sunny deserts, but local opponents continue to insist that the landscape blight would be intolerable. New long distance transmission lines will have to cross multiple states in order to bring that power to the places that need it most. Once again, though, a patchwork of local concerns and inconsistent state regulation is already making the task exceedingly difficult.
And those may be the easy cases. Zero-carbon nuclear power will ultimately require depositories for radioactive waste, but if the intense (and ultimately successful) backlash against the Yucca Mountain facility in Nevada is any indication, local pushback is pretty much inevitable. If technologies that capture greenhouse gas emissions from coal-fired power plants can be successfully deployed, they'll still need somewhere to store the carbon dioxide underground. Few people are likely to be enthusiastic about that happening in their backyards.
That leaves environmentalists with a real conundrum. For green groups, the shortest route to blocking fossil fuel development appears to be leveraging local opposition. Many will seek to turn this not only against the Canadian oil sands but against United States oil production and coal exports, too. At the same time, they will find themselves increasingly appealing to the federal government for help in overriding local opposition to wind farms, solar plants, long distance transmission lines and other critical pieces of zero-carbon infrastructure. These two endeavors will conflict.
Indeed, as energy becomes increasingly important to American foreign policy, there is a strong case to be made for giving more power to Washington. Security analysts have long argued that access to robust and varied supplies of fossil fuels, including domestic ones, enhances the nation's freedom of action in the world. But another front has now opened: American soft power -- its ability to attract and persuade -- is increasingly undermined by the government's inability to take strong action on climate change, something that local opposition to clean energy development only makes worse.
This may increasingly become a hard power challenge too, as climate change exacerbates tensions and multiplies threats around the world. The United States Constitution gives the federal government pre-eminence on foreign policy for a reason: 50 states acting incoherently cannot effectively advance the nation's position in the world.
To be certain, energy policy cannot and should not disregard local opinion and opposition. Those who are affected most by energy development deserve a special role in shaping its course. But that should not be taken to an extreme that makes effective national energy policy impossible.
Energy experts often note that it would be impossible to recreate today's energy infrastructure, given the intensity of opposition to pretty much any new development. The environmentalists' victory against Keystone XL will only reinforce that judgment. But realizing their broader vision -- a low-carbon economy that enhances the nation's security and helps avoid dangerous climate change -- will require defeating the same sort of local opposition that they have just embraced.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); APPROVALS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); WIND ENERGY (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); COAL INDUSTRY (77%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (77%); OIL SANDS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (76%); POWER PLANTS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (76%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (69%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (69%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (61%); NUCLEAR WASTE (61%); COAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



484 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: Pacquiao Provides Economic Punch for Las Vegas

BYLINE: By GREG BISHOP

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS -- Despite the fact that Manny Pacquiao hails from the Philippines and came to stardom toward the end of his career, to this city and Nevada he represents far more than a talented boxer who plies his trade twice annually under their famous neon lights.
Pacquiao is an economic driver for the local economy, his influence as powerful as his left hook. On fight weekends, that impact extends from an uptick in gambling to an increase in everything from hotel rates to the price of bottle service at local nightclubs.
In a city that lacks even one franchise in any of the major professional sports leagues, tourism is driven by events, few bigger than a championship prizefight. In fact, a bout like Pacquiao's against Juan Manuel Marquez at the MGM Grand on Saturday will earn the Nevada Athletic Commission its budget for the year. And that is but one small slice.
Over lunch Tuesday, Todd DuBoef, president of Top Rank Boxing, chewed over a chopped salad and Pacquiao's economic boost in a typical fight week. Asked if that impact reached $100 million, he scoffed. ''No,'' he said. ''It's way more. Not $100 million. Hundreds of millions.'' 
While promoters are certainly no strangers to hyperbole, DuBoef ticked off dozens of factors that come into play, all of which center on a single premise: more visitors spend more money. That makes Pacquiao and other famous boxers an economic stimulus plan -- all because two men stand in a ring and hit each other in the face.
When Floyd Mayweather Jr., Pacquiao's chief rival for the title of best boxer on the planet, gripes about how Pacquiao earns his money here yet spends it overseas, Mayweather, too, misses the larger point: Both boxers jolt the economy in the city Mayweather calls home.
''It's hard to put a specific number on it,'' said Josh Swissman, vice president for corporate marketing at MGM Resorts International. ''But it's a marked increase. A fight weekend like this is like New Year's Eve for us. And New Year's Eve is the biggest night in the whole city.''
DuBoef grew up here, attending his first championship fight, which featured Sugar Ray Leonard against Thomas Hearns, when he was a teenager. That night, Vegas felt like ''the epicenter of the world,'' he said.
He watched the Strip change and grow over the years, with its fancy shows and expensive concerts. Even though the sport diminished in popularity, boxing remained a constant in Las Vegas, through the high times and the recession that hit in 2008.
No fighter drew crowds, and thus disposable income, the way Mike Tyson did. But the promoters' goal remained the same: build a fan base, and they will come, from Mexico, or England, or anywhere, really.
''That's why Ricky Hatton stayed so long in England,'' said Bob Arum, chairman of Top Rank. ''When he came to Vegas, he brought an army with him. The gaming didn't increase. But the beer sales were out of sight.''
Over the years, those involved developed a science behind fight week. Hotels worked with promoters to tie pugilism to other events, like Thursday's Latin Grammys or major holidays, which is why Cinco de Mayo is often booked with Mexican fighters on the cards.
For Leonard, Hearns, Tyson and boxers of similar magnitude, Vegas became the destination. Those fighters, in turn, helped sustain the city, saw it boom.
''You can feel the emotion on the eve of a big fight,'' said Oscar Goodman, the former mayor. ''It's almost like the days before a Super Bowl.''
Pacquiao, though, is different from the others. He was not considered a superstar until November 2009, when he bludgeoned Miguel Cotto for his seventh title in seven weight classes. There were other major fights before that, certainly, but against Cotto, Pacquiao crossed into the mainstream.
He brought with him a large and loyal fan base, which included high-end Asian gamblers. In recent years, Las Vegas's primary, narrow recovery resulted almost exclusively from the baccarat boom, according to Michael Lawton, a senior research analyst for the Nevada Gaming Control Board, and those types of high rollers appear drawn to championship fights.
DuBoef said Top Rank saw this coming when it signed Pacquiao. It had planned to capitalize on the Asian market, with an Asian superstar, and to do so in Macau, China's replica of Las Vegas. ''We thought Macau was the promised land,'' DuBoef said. ''It turned out Manny translated here, for the same reasons, instead.''
Estimates place the number of Filipinos and Filipino-Americans who work and live in greater Las Vegas at more 65,000. They, too, see increased business when Pacquiao comes to town. At his grand arrival Tuesday, the Filipina Dance Company of Las Vegas stood next to the makeshift ring inside the MGM lobby, the dancers' eyes filled with pride.
Beyond that, Pacquiao, a congressman in the Philippines, draws international, often political, coverage unlike any boxer before, having graced the covers of Time and Newsweek.
While other foreign fighters gained huge followings -- Lennox Lewis, for example -- none served in government while boxing. This week, Pacquiao joked that his Congress can take ''roll call here,'' because more than 60 congressmen came to Las Vegas for the fight.
''I'm not sure any fighter has had that type of international coverage, ever,'' said Keith Kizer, executive director of the Nevada Athletic Commission.
Kizer said the buzz surrounding fight weeks has come later in recent years, starting a week before, not three. Yet this fight sold out two weeks after tickets hit the market, for a projected $11.8 million in gross sales, which would rank ninth for all fights.
The commission, Kizer said, receives 6 percent of the gate, in addition to a $50,000 fee, good for $758,000, based on the projection. ''One fight,'' Kizer added, ''basically covers our entire budget.''
According to TicketsNow, the average price of a Pacquiao-Marquez ticket is 42 percent higher ($1,049) than a ticket to Mayweather's fight in September against Victor Ortiz ($610).
The Nevada Gaming Commission releases data monthly. In Pacquiao's last triumph, a bout against Shane Mosley in May, the amount made by the casinos increased 28.9 percent compared with the same month a year earlier. That figure was boosted by a large baccarat tournament, which was helped by Pacquiao's presence.
But even that only covers some of the effect. The rest falls under the nongambling category, for which Pacquiao serves as a magnet for visitors, for those who buy tickets and spend money and those who come to be part of the ecosystem around each fight.
As the director of marketing at the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, Kevin Bagger helps oversee a survey of 3,600 visitors over a calendar year to determine what the average person spends on everything besides gambling, including restaurants, bars, souvenirs and rental cars. For 2010, the average was $645.
By multiplying that average with the gate attendance, the visitors authority arrives at an ''estimated nongaming economic impact'' for each fight, usually in the range of $6 million to $12 million. When Pacquiao tangled with Erik Morales in November 2006 at the larger-capacity Thomas and Mack Center, the estimated nongambling economic impact was $12.9 million, the highest total in the past five years.
At casinos like MGM, Swissman said, nongambling revenue accounts for 60 percent of total revenue. He added that Pacquiao was missed when he fought twice last year at Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Tex.
Major fights hold another advantage, according to Scott Voeller, vice president for brand strategy and advertising at MGM Resorts.
''If the brand is strong enough, it doesn't take a whole lot of advertising,'' he said. ''If you have the right promoters, the right fighters, you're able to reach the right customers without having to spend as much.''
Voeller said hotels typically reach out to such customers the week a championship bout is announced. Then they decorate the hotel with signs and posters and displays, so much so that it is hard to walk 10 feet in the MGM without some acknowledgement of the fight. Even the hotel's quarterly earnings calls often mention boxing and its influence on revenue, where one fight can register in cash registers the same way an Eagles concert would.
Pacquiao, though, seems unaware of the economic boost provided by his fists.
''I'm here to fight,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Manny Pacquiao, left, will face Juan Manuel Marquez in a bout that will pump millions of dollars into Las Vegas's economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD BRIAN/REUTERS) (B14)
 Fans attracted to boxing matches pump money into casinos, hotels, bars and car rental agencies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE MARCUS/REUTERS) (B17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOXING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BUDGETS (77%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); SPORTS (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); RESORTS (71%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (69%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (64%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%)

COMPANY: MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (83%)

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (83%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (83%)

PERSON: MANNY PACQUIAO (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%) NEVADA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



485 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 5723 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information: nytimes.com/theater.
Previews and Openings
'Blood and Gifts' (in previews; opens on Nov. 21) This new play from J. T. Rogers is a spy-versus-spy drama laced with black humor, described as evoking the worlds of Graham Greene and Evelyn Waugh. Directed by Bartlett Sher, the Lincoln Center Theater commission examines the Soviet-Afghan war of the 1980s through the eyes of a C.I.A. operative. Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (David Rooney)
'Bonnie & Clyde' (in previews; opens on Dec. 1). For many of us, Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow will forever have the faces of Faye Dunaway and Warren Beatty, who starred in Arthur Penn's ageless 1967 movie. But the composer Frank Wildhorn, the lyricist Don Black and the book writer Ivan Menchell look at the outlaw lovers from fresh angles in this new musical, directed by Jeff Calhoun and starring Laura Osnes and Jeremy Jordan. Gerald Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney) 
'Burning' (in previews; opens on Monday) The New Group opens its season with Thomas Bradshaw's intersecting stories of self-invention and sexual identity, spanning two eras. Scott Elliott directs the play, about a provocative black painter whose work causes a stir in Berlin, and a teenage aspiring actor, recently orphaned, who is taken in by a gay couple in the New York theater industry. Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'The Cherry Orchard' (previews start on Wednesday; opens on Dec. 4) Classic Stage Company invariably attracts top-tier actors to its idiosyncratic productions of Chekhov. The ensemble for this latest, directed by Andrei Belgrader, includes John Turturro, Dianne Wiest, Daniel Davis, Alvin Epstein, Josh Hamilton, Roberta Maxwell, Juliet Rylance, Michael Urie and the sisters Elisabeth and Katherine Waterston, whose dad is tackling Lear a few blocks away at the Public. Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, classicstage.org. (Rooney)
'Elective Affinities' (previews start on Thursday; opens on Dec. 1) How does quality time with Zoe Caldwell in an Upper East Side town house sound? This new site-specific play by David Adjmi (''Stunning'') will provide that pleasure for 30 people an evening. Ms. Caldwell plays the octogenarian wit Alice Hauptmann, who holds court about civilized society over tea and sandwiches at a location to be disclosed to ticket-holders 48 hours prior to each performance. Sarah Benson directs this collaboration by Soho Rep, Piece by Piece Productions and Rising Phoenix Repertory. The Hauptmann Residence, (212) 352-3101, hauptmannresidence.com. (Rooney)
'An Evening With Patti LuPone and Mandy Patinkin' (previews start on Wednesday; opens on Nov. 21) With a major revival of ''Evita'' due this spring, these two performers -- who appeared together on Broadway for the first time in that show as Eva Peron and Che (and took home matching Tony Awards) -- reunite to reminisce and perform some of the greatest material written for the stage. But be warned: try photographing Patti midsong and you will feel her wrath. Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Fragments' (in previews; opens on Sunday) A glimpse ''into the filthy abyss of human existence'' is how the iconoclastic director Peter Brook describes the work of Samuel Beckett. But he points to the playwright's humor as what saves us from falling in. Working with his regular collaborator Marie-Helene Estienne, Mr. Brook tests that theory in this staging of five Beckett shorts, presented by Theater for a New Audience for 29 performances only. Baryshnikov Arts Center, 450 West 37th Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, tfana.org. (Rooney)
'Happy Hour' (previews start on Wednesday; opens on Dec. 5) Before he started rubbing shoulders with Woody Allen and Elaine May with ''Relatively Speaking'' on Broadway, the filmmaker Ethan Coen was regularly cooking up one-act comedy trilogies for the Atlantic Theater Company. His third set, again directed by Neil Pepe, appears to be ironically titled given its lineup of an embittered barfly, two lonely young people blind to their mutual compatibility and a suicidal business traveler. Signature Theater Company's Peter Norton Space, 552 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Rooney)
'Horsedreams' (in previews; opens on Thursday) Dael Orlandersmith's new play explores the breakdown of a family as the result of addiction, leaving a man to face the difficult reality of raising his son alone. Gordon Edelstein directs a cast of four that includes Ms. Orlandersmith. Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, Greenwich Village, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Rooney)
'How Much Is Enough: Our Values in Question' (in previews; opens on Sunday) This Foundry Theater production, written by Kirk Lynn and directed by Melanie Joseph, ponders questions large and small about our shifting priorities, as the company members seek answers from one another and from the audience in a show that changes from night to night. St. Ann's Warehouse, 38 Water Street, Brooklyn, (718) 854-8779, stannswarehouse.org. (Rooney)
'The Infernal Comedy: Confessions of a Serial Killer' (opens on Thursday) You were expecting warm and fuzzy from John Malkovich? The writer and director Michael Sturminger refashions the real-life story of the Austrian serial killer Jack Unterweger, as a tell-all memoir from beyond the grave. This pitch-black stage piece for Mr. Malkovich, a chamber orchestra and two sopranos plays only for four performances as part of Brooklyn Academy of Music's Next Wave Festival. Howard Gilman Opera House, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org. (Rooney)
'Lysistrata Jones' (previews start on Saturday; opens on Dec. 14) Douglas Carter Beane and Lewis Flinn's (literally) bouncy Aristophanes update transports the sexually withholding women of ancient Greece onto the basketball court of modern-day Athens University. ''It's Your Duty: No More Booty'' becomes the girls' strategy to spur their guys to a win. Directed and choreographed by Dan Knechtges, this Transport Group production graduates from its site-specific Off Broadway run to the big time in a season that so far is light on new musicals. Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (David Rooney)
'On a Clear Day You Can See Forever' (previews start on Saturday; opens on Dec. 11) Daisy Gamble has become David in Michael Mayer's reconceived production of the much-loved but seldom-seen Burton Lane and Alan Jay Lerner musical about a widowed psychiatrist who becomes romantically bewitched by the previous-life incarnation of one of his patients. Peter Parnell wrote the new book for the show, which stars Harry Connick Jr., David Turner and Jessie Mueller. St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Once' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on Dec. 6) The micro-budget 2007 Irish independent film about the romance between a Dublin musician and a Czech immigrant became a surprise hit and made international music stars (and Oscar-winning songwriters) of Glen Hansard and Marketa Irglova. Brought to the stage by the playwright Enda Walsh and the director and the choreographer of ''Black Watch,'' John Tiffany and Steven Hoggett, this musical is being eyed by theater pundits as a potential Broadway entry. It stars Steve Kazee and Cristin Milioti. New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 279-4200, nytw.org. (Rooney)
'Private Lives' (in previews; opens on Thursday) Kim Cattrall and the Canadian actor Paul Gross play the divorced couple whose romance is inconveniently rekindled in Noel Coward's diamantine 1930 comedy of manners. Richard Eyre's revival was first staged last year in the West End of London, where Ms. Cattrall has been a frequent presence since the end of her ''Sex and the City'' television commitments. This production brings her back to Broadway for the first time in almost 25 years. Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Seminar' (in previews; opens on Nov. 20) The in-demand director Sam Gold makes his Broadway debut with this new comedy from Theresa Rebeck. Lily Rabe, Hamish Linklater, Jerry O'Connell and Hettienne Park play aspiring novelists who sign up for classes with a formidable international literary lion, endowed with the acid tongue and droll delivery of Alan Rickman. John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Standing on Ceremony: the Gay Marriage Plays' (in previews; opens on Sunday) An impressive roster of playwrights contributed to this lineup of short plays celebrating courage in relationships, among them Mo Gaffney, Jordan Harrison, Moises Kaufman, Neil LaBute, Paul Rudnick and Doug Wright. In a production designed to run with a rotating cast, the premiere ensemble includes Craig Bierko, Mark Consuelos, Polly Draper, Harriet Harris, Beth Leavel and Richard Thomas. Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com. (Rooney)
'Wild Animals You Should Know' (in previews; opens on Nov. 20) A wilderness scout camp provides the setting for an erotically charged game of cat and mouse between two unlikely male friends in this new play by Thomas Higgins. Directed by Trip Cullman, the MCC Theater production has a six-member cast that includes Patrick Breen, Gideon Glick and Alice Ripley. Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 352-3101, mcctheater.org. (Rooney)
Broadway
- 'The Book of Mormon' This delightful collaboration between the creators of ''South Park'' (Trey Parker and Matt Stone) and the composer of ''Avenue Q'' (Robert Lopez) is blasphemous, scurrilous and as pure-hearted as a Rodgers and Hammerstein show. No musical has so successfully had it both ways since ''The Producers.'' Casey Nicholaw is the witty co-director (with Mr. Parker) and choreographer (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com. (Ben Brantley)
'Chinglish' David Henry Hwang's sporadically funny comedy about a bewildered American businessman seeking his fortune in capitalist China is laid out with the frame-by-frame exactness of a comic strip. That means this bilingual production is easy to follow but hard to embrace with enthusiasm. Leigh Silverman directs (2:00). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
- 'Follies' The Kennedy Center's revival of James Goldman and Stephen Sondheim's musical about a reunion of Ziegfeld-style performers looks back as much in anger as in fondness, and that's what makes it so vibrant. Eric Schaeffer directs an electric cast led by Bernadette Peters, Jan Maxwell, Danny Burstein and Ron Raines (2:30). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'Godspell' Oh, dear Lord: the beloved 1971 musical that turned biblical parables into teachable moments has been stuffed fruitcake-full of jokey contemporary allusions. Performed by a peppy young cast, this show is like being stuck in a rec room with kids who have been too reckless with the Red Bull (2:30). Circle in the Square Theater, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Charles Isherwood)
'How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying' Not a natural song-and-dance man, Daniel Radcliffe tries really, really hard as the amoral hero of this 1961 Frank Loesser musical about corporate ladder-climbing. Rob Ashford directed this largely charm-free revival (2:40). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Man and Boy' When Frank Langella plays good, he's fine; but when he's bad, he's a wonder. Here the actor who starred as Dracula and Nixon is charismatically amoral as a 1930s financier who wreaks havoc with other people's money. He is also the one compelling reason to see this revival of Terence Rattigan's 1963 drama, directed by Maria Aitken (2:15). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Brantley)
'The Mountaintop' Katori Hall's surprisingly thin new drama, which won the 2010 Olivier Award, depicts the last night in the life of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. (Samuel L. Jackson) and his encounter with a feisty motel maid (Angela Bassett). Perhaps best regarded as a comfort play, a nursery-room fable for grownups (1:40). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
- 'Other Desert Cities' Jon Robin Baitz's family drama is so good that you may not even realize how good it is while you're watching it. Joe Mantello directs a sublime five-member cast who expertly elicit the pain and the comfort of blood ties: Stockard Channing, Rachel Griffiths, Stacy Keach, Judith Light and Thomas Sadoski (2:15). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Priscilla Queen of the Desert' The 1994 movie about Australian drag queens in the outback becomes a hyperactively splashy karaoke musical so desperate to show the audience a gaudy good time that the results are mostly enervating. Tony Sheldon brings some warmth as the transsexual Bernadette, but the show is mostly a riot of spangles, sequins and silly costumes (2:30). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)
'Relatively Speaking' This slight but mostly enjoyable trio of short plays by Ethan Coen, Elaine May and Woody Allen won't do much to burnish their established reputations, but the show is chock full of nifty shtick. Marlo Thomas delights as a pampered princess with a dead husband in Ms. May's contribution (2:15). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)
'Sister Act' When the good sisters of the Church of Philly Soul are rocking to raise the gothic rafters, led by the radiant Patina Miller, all is right with this stage adaptation of the hit movie about a club singer hiding out as a nun. Otherwise, this story of a bad girl teaching some good ones how to get down is innocuous but generic musical theater (2:30). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' This retooled mega-expensive musical is no longer an ungodly, indecipherable mess. It's just a bore. Recommended for less-than-precocious children with a hundred dollars to burn (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com. (Brantley)
- 'Venus in Fur' The incandescent Nina Arianda recreates her dazzling turn as an actress auditioning for the role of a 19th-century dominatrix in David Ives's seriously funny sex comedy about power games at an audition. Hugh Dancy holds his own as the writer-director who may be discovering more than he wants to know about the destabilizing nature of desire (1:45). Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
'War Horse' This imported British weepie, adapted from Michael Morpurgo's children's book about a cavalry horse in World War I, has the most charismatic matinee idol seen in ages: that's Joey, the title character, a puppet brought to life-size life with ineffably theatrical magic (2:45). Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, (800) 432-7250, lincolncenter.org. (Brantley)
Off Broadway
- 'The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs' The accomplished monologuist Mike Daisey weaves the story of the Apple co-founder's life and vision into a darker exploration of the troubling economic disparities that underlie our technology-obsessed age. Smart, engaging and funny, but be warned that you might have second thoughts about purchasing that next shiny gadget (1:50). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Isherwood)
'All-American' Julia Brownell's appealing if perhaps too tidy play depicts the struggles of a high school quarterback who happens to be female, and who has begun to question her commitment to the sport (1:40). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (646) 223-3010, dukeon42.org. (Isherwood)
'Asuncion' Jesse Eisenberg plays a confirmed slacker in a bromance with his former African studies professor (Justin Bartha) in this genial wisp of a comedy written by Mr. Eisenberg (1:40). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 352-3101, rattlestick.org. (Isherwood)
'The Atmosphere of Memory' It's hard to decide which is more ludicrous: David Bar Katz's backstage drama about a theatrical family (mom's Ellen Burstyn, dad's John Glover) or the play within the play, a weird mashup of Greek tragedy, Strindberg and Gilbert and Sullivan (2:20). Bank Street Theater, 155 Bank Street, West Village, (212) 513-1080, labtheater.org. (Isherwood)
'The Berenstain Bears Live! in Family Matters, the Musical' The most famous bears since the three in the Goldilocks story are now onstage in this adaptation of three of the titles in the long-running children's book series by Stan and Jan Berenstain. The show, by Michael Borton and Michael Slade, offers a pleasant hour for small theatergoers, with a pop-flavored score and actors who inhabit their fuzzy roles enthusiastically. But like the books, it's rather tame and tidy; after this many years of a formula, even the Berenstain cubs are starting to show their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Manhattan Movement & Arts Center, 248 West 60th Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com. (Laurel Graeber)
'The Blue Flower' Jim Bauer's alluring music isn't enough to give this high-minded muddle of a musical sufficient cogency as it races across Europe in the early decades of the 20th century, telling a convoluted story of artists and scientists in love and war (2:15). Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. (Isherwood)
'Children' The Actor Company Theater's crisp revival of this rarely produced play from 1974 by A.R. Gurney (''The Dining Room,'' ''The Cocktail Hour'') shows how long he has charted the decline of the wealthy white Anglo-Saxon Protestant culture. In the summer of 1970 an old-line family gathers at the summer house the mother (a regal Darrie Lawrence) will be passing on to her three grown children, the prospect of which shakes loose hopes, dreams and secrets. If, in the end, this small, charming play feels a bit slight, Mr. Gurney's genteel command of story and structure are obvious (1:30). Beckett Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, tactnyc.org. (Daniel M. Gold)
- 'Cymbeline' The Fiasco Theater's charming production brings lucidity, credibility and gentle magic to Shakespeare's bulky, convoluted tale of star-crossed lovers and schemers in old Britannia, with a multifarious cast of six on a naked stage. Directed by Noah Brody and Ben Steinfeld (2:40). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Brantley)
'Dancing at Lughnasa' Charlotte Moore's production falls a little short on atmosphere but works where it counts most, in the spirited performances of the five women playing the poor, unmarriageable Mundy sisters in the fictional Donegal town of Ballybeg in late summer 1936. Two decades after it was first seen, this transporting Tony-winning memory play by the Irish dramatist Brian Friel has lost none of its humanity or delicacy (2:05). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Rooney)
'The Devil's Music: The Life and Blues of Bessie Smith' Miche Braden plays the bawdy-talking, hooch-swilling Bessie Smith in this show that mixes Smith's songs with talk about her life, loves and career. That format seems a bit tired, but Ms. Braden gives it her all (1:20). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rachel Saltz)
- 'The Judy Show: My Life as a Sitcom' The writer and stand-up comic Judy Gold may not have realized her dream of starring in a sitcom about being a 6-foot-3 Jewish lesbian mother of two on the Upper West Side, but she has squeezed several seasons' worth of wry observations about life, career and family into this consistently funny 80-minute monologue, complete with her own droll spins on some classic television theme tunes. For anyone who misses Mary Richards, Maude, Laverne and Shirley, the Bradys, the Partridges and other familiar faces that populated small screens in decades past (primarily the 1970s, but the late '60s, the '80s and the early '90s also get a look), this will be better than an uninterrupted evening of YouTube indulgence (1:20). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Union Square, East Village, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'King Lear' James Macdonald's production of Shakespeare's tragedy is full of talented, miscast people, including Michael McKean, John Douglas Thompson, Frank Wood and -- most notably -- Sam Waterston as a frail and querulous Lear. As the Fool, the great cerebral clown Bill Irwin stands out amid the prevailing gray slush like a daffodil in February (3:20). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)
- 'The Lyons' The actress Linda Lavin and the playwright Nicky Silver slyly reinvent that creaky archetype, the smothering, belittling Jewish mother. This play, Mr. Silver's best in some years, also reinvents Mr. Silver's eternal theme of the American family as a sick joke. Mark Brokaw directs a cast that includes an excellent Michael Esper and Dick Latessa (2:00). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, (212) 353-0303, vineyardtheatre.org. (Brantley)
'Milk Like Sugar' Kirsten Greenidge's provocative play pivots on a pact among three black high school girls to get pregnant at the same time. A terrific cast led by a fierce Tonya Pinkins keeps you hooked even when the play moves into predictable moralizing mode (1:30). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Isherwood)
'Pangs of the Messiah' To whom does the West Bank belong? That is the question posed by Motti Lerner's 1986 play, which follows a family of Zionist settlers being evicted from their homes. When peaceful protests fail, the family increasingly becomes radicalized. The awkwardly translated script can be polemical at times, but the production benefits from brisk direction, strong acting and an unusual focus on the internal destruction caused by radicalization, rather than empathy with the enemy (2:20). Theater at the 14th Street Y, 344 East 14th Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, untitledtheater.com. (Rampell)
'Queen of the Mist' Michael John LaChiusa's obsessive musical portrait of an obsessive woman -- Anna Edson Taylor, who went over Niagara Falls in a barrel in 1901 -- features beautiful music but suffers from the monotony of monomania. The formidable Mary Testa plays Taylor (2:25). The Gym at Judson Memorial Church, 243 Thompson Street, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (866) 811-4111, transportgroup.org. (Brantley)
'Rent' Maybe they should call it ''Sublet.'' The young cast members who inhabit this premature revival of Jonathan Larson's watershed rock opera from 1996, directed by Michael Greif, never seem to feel truly at home. It is as if they're reluctant to make this show their own (2:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Silence! The Musical' An ''unauthorized parody'' of the grisly movie with the Hannibal Lecter character crooning noxious songs and Jenn Harris giving a hilarious sendup of Jodie Foster's intense Clarice Starling. Not as funny as it needs to be (1:30). 9th Space Theater at Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101, silencethemusical.com. (Isherwood)
'Sistas: the Musical' The script is obvious, covering virtually every issue that might touch the lives of black women, but Dorothy Marcic's good-natured, low-budget musical is all about the songs. From ''Ain't Nobody's Business if I Do'' to ''Single Ladies,'' you could do a lot worse (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)
'Sleep No More' Punchdrunk, a British site-specific theater company, has taken over three abandoned warehouses to enact the sorry sights of the murderous Macbeths' career as a movable orgy. The result suggests what might have happened if Stanley Kubrick (of ''The Shining'') had designed the Haunted Mansion at Disney World (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com. (Brantley)
- 'Sons of the Prophet' Stephen Karam's wonderful new play is a comedy about how we endure the unendurable. Santino Fontana leads a flawless cast in a kaleidoscopic portrait of the woes that befall a family of Lebanese extraction and the people in their orbit. As smart and funny as it is deeply compassionate (1:45). Laura Pels Theater at the Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'Suicide, Incorporated' Andrew Hinderaker's black comedy evolves a bit uneasily into sincere drama in telling the story of the workers at a company that ghostwrites suicide notes (1:25). Black Box Theater, Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300, roundaboutunderground.org. (Isherwood)
'Traces' An energizing evening of acrobatics from the Montreal troupe Seven Fingers. Think of it as cirque du cabaret, in which a group of distinctive talents get to show off the physical equivalents of individual song stylings (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'Voca People' This show features space aliens, but it's really all about a cappella music. The visitors have crash-landed on Earth in a ship powered by music, and lots of singing must be done to refuel their ship. The eight singers sound pretty good, despite some overamplification. But most of the show consists of fragments of songs, which becomes annoying; only when the cast is allowed to cut loose and deliver an entire song -- the Doors' ''People Are Strange'' is a highlight -- do things reach their full potential (1:30). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Neil Genzlinger)
Off Off Broadway
'The Greenwich Village Follies' Doug Silver and Andrew Frank's musical revue about the history of the Village is enthusiastically played and has a few nice numbers, but it feels slapdash and not nearly polished enough to pay proper tribute to its dynamic neighborhood. Sunday only (1:20). The Duplex, 61 Christopher Street, Greenwich Village, (866) 811-4111, thegreenwichvillagefollies.com. (Anita Gates)
'Mama, I Want to Sing' A largely new cast (seeded from the Gospel for Teens program in Harlem) gives full-throated life to this long-running gospel musical. Quibbles about the thin plot and questionable acting go out the window with each and every tune -- and there are plenty of them. Saturday only (2:00). The Dempsey Theater, 127 West 127th Street, Harlem, (212) 868-4444, mamafoundation.org. (Eric Grode)
Extravaganzas
'Big Apple Circus: Dream Big' This one-ring circus may not offer big cats, but it does have large rodents -- a capybara and an African crested porcupine, no less -- in its new show. Fortunately, the circus has lost none of its intimacy this season, whose highlights include terrific trapeze and acrobatics, bravura magic and the farewell antics of Barry Lubin, doing his final turn as the clown known as Grandma (2:15). Damrosch Park, 62nd Street between Columbus and Amsterdam Avenues, Lincoln Center; (888) 541-3750, bigapplecircus.org. (Graeber)
Long-Running Shows
'The Addams Family' Kiddie Goth (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Anything Goes' Champagne decanted by Cole Porter (2:30). Stephen Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Billy Elliot the Musical' Ballet dreams in coal country (2:50). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Freckleface Strawberry' Based on the actress Julianne Moore's picture book, this inventive and witty children's musical transcends the usual themes about celebrating the differences that make us special. MMAC Theater, 248 West 60th Street, (212) 239-6200; frecklefacestrawberrythemusical.com.
'Freud's Last Session' An imagined meeting of Sigmund Freud and C. S. Lewis (1:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Gauguin!' George Fischoff's one-man musical about Paul Gauguin. Saturday only (1:00). Nola Studios, 250 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Love, Loss, and What I Wore' Or shoes, bags and heartaches, as retailed by Nora and Delia Ephron and a rotating cast (1:20). Westside Downstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Mary Poppins' Supernanny (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Memphis' A musical about an interracial romance in the early days of rock (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Million Dollar Quartet' This jukebox musical relates the day when Johnny Cash, Jerry Lee Lewis, Carl Perkins and Elvis Presley all got together for an impromptu jam (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Miss Abigail's Guide to Dating, Mating, & Marriage' Abigail dispenses advice about romance drawn from vintage health manuals and etiquette guides (1:30). Downstairs Cabaret Theater at Sofia's, 221 West 46th Street, missabigailsguide.com.
'Naked Boys Singing' That's who they are. That's what they do (1:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
'Intringulis' (closes on Sunday) Carlo Alban's engaging one-man show is a modern immigration story told by someone who lived it. (He came to the United States with his family in 1986, when he was 7.) Mr. Alban punctuates the show with Nueva Cancion songs that he performs with affection and force. They're worth the price of admission (1:30). Intar Theater, 500 West 52nd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, intartheatre.org. (Saltz)
'Now the Cats With Jewelled Claws' (closes on Sunday) An all-star cast of downtown stars (Everett Quinton, Erin Markey) turns this obscure, minor one-act by Tennessee Williams into goofy camp fun (1:00). The Club at La MaMa, 74A East Fourth Street, second floor, East Village, (212) 475-7710, lamama.org. (Jason Zinoman)
- 'Shadows' (closes on Saturday) In this inventive stage adaptation of John Cassavetes's classic indie film, the director Alec Duffy's troupe, Hoi Polloi, transcends the source material's narrative limitations with verve and audacity (1:20). The Collapsable Hole, 146 Metropolitan Avenue, at Berry Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (800) 838-3006, brownpapertickets.com. (Andy Webster)
'Verse Chorus Verse' (closes on Saturday) A fictitious follow-up to an actual case of kidnap and torture, Randall Colburn's play is also a bitter valentine to the legacy of grunge. Present-day survivors still wandering through the embers of the Tacoma, Wash., 1990s music scene, wallow in drugs, alcohol and ancient recriminations. Despite its pat conclusion, the production benefits from the playwright's assured knowledge of its musical milieu (1:30). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street between Bedford and Barrow Streets, West Village; (212) 352-3101, cherrylanetheatre.org. (Webster)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'BILLY ELLIOT THE MUSICAL': Based on the 2000 film by Stephen Daldry, this dance-friendly musical -- directed by Mr. Daldry, with music by Elton John and lyrics and book by Lee Hall -- opened on Broadway in 2008, with the English lad of the title finding his balletic talents amid hard times in the coal industry. This Tony Award-winning show, whose cast now includes Tade Biesinger, above, rotating in the title role, will close on Jan. 8, after three years and three months of performances (2:50). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (David DeWitt) (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROL ROSEGG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); MUSICAL THEATER (79%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (79%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (79%); FILM (79%); SONG WRITING (72%); WRITERS (72%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (72%); THEATER (59%)

PERSON: ELTON JOHN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (57%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



486 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Bankruptcy Rarely Offers Easy Answer For Counties

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON, MARY WILLIAMS WALSH and MICHAEL COOPER; Campbell Robertson reported from Birmingham, and Mary Williams Walsh and Michael Cooper from New York.

 BODY:
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. -- When Alabama's Jefferson County filed for the largest municipal bankruptcy in American history this week, it looked a little like another domino had fallen.
Harrisburg, the capital of Pennsylvania, filed for bankruptcy last month. The tiny city of Central Falls, R.I., filed in the summer. Hamtramck, Mich., tried to declare bankruptcy last year but was stopped by the state. From coast to coast, cities have had to cut services, lay off workers and raise taxes as the downturn has lingered.
Municipal bankruptcies remain extremely rare, and each of these cases can be viewed as unique, a one-off: Jefferson County was undone by a major sewer project marred by corruption, Harrisburg by borrowing more than it could repay for a disastrous incinerator project, Central Falls by pension problems, and Hamtramck by the woes of the auto industry. Viewed another way, though, they show how the downturn has left the nation's most distressed cities with few options for papering over huge problems, and left some desperate elected officials placing their hopes in bankruptcy judges. 
Their desire for simple solutions may be in vain, though: for constitutional reasons, the part of the federal bankruptcy code that municipalities use, Chapter 9, sharply limits the power of bankruptcy judges to intervene in local governance.
''Chapter 9 really puts the judge more in the position of being a referee than somebody who can really run the county,'' said Paul S. Maco, a partner with the firm of Vinson & Elkins who led the Office of Municipal Securities at the Securities and Exchange Commission during the bankruptcy of Orange County, Calif. -- the nation's largest municipal bankruptcy until this week. ''Chapter 9 doesn't take away the difficult political decision-making needed to address a financial credit problem.''
Jefferson County has been plagued by distrust for years. The state, under Gov. Robert Bentley, had tried to broker a deal to avert bankruptcy. It fell apart, county officials said, over a failure to reach agreements with creditors. County officials decided that the county's credit was so bad that filing for bankruptcy risked little.
By any measure, Jefferson County, home to nearly 700,000 people and to the city of Birmingham, is an extreme case. The seeds of its fiscal collapse were planted more than a decade ago when the county was ordered to rebuild its dilapidated sewer system, which had been sending raw sewage into rivers. The county, which had long sought to avoid paying the true cost of its sewer system, signed off on a series of complex financial deals that officials barely understood. The deals had hidden risks, and they went bad.
Several officials were convicted of taking bond-related bribes, including a former county commission president and Birmingham mayor. Two bankers are fighting federal accusations that they made secret payments. And in 2009, J. P. Morgan Securities forfeited $752 million to settle a fraud complaint by the S.E.C.
The complicated bond-and-derivative structures did not work out for the county: they failed during the financial turmoil of 2008, leaving the county with a $3.2 billion debt, to be repaid faster than planned.
The debt crisis was then compounded by a budget crisis when one of the county's biggest sources of revenue, an occupational tax, was struck down in court and Alabama's Legislature balked at letting the county replace it with a new tax. That forced Jefferson County to slash its budget by nearly a third: it laid off more than 500 workers, closed several court houses, and stopped maintaining its roads.
Now officials say they will have to come up with an additional $40 million in cuts by Jan. 1. Given that the sheriff's department is no longer responding to car accidents on county roads, county officials said, there seems little left to trim.
''All of the areas that are not constitutionally mandated are next to be cut,'' said James A. Stephens, a county commissioner, mentioning senior citizen services, building inspectors and economic development expenditures. In other words, he said, Jefferson County, home to the largest city in the state, will have the bare-bones services of a sparsely populated rural county.
Many in the county are pinning their hopes on the bankruptcy: by the time the county filed this week, faith that the various players could arrive at a fair deal had sunk as low as ever.
The corruption of the previous county commissioners, the political failures of the Legislature and the legacy left by Wall Street had resulted in an atmosphere of distrust. ''I favor bankruptcy frankly because I don't trust the Alabama Legislature,'' said U. W. Clemon, a retired federal judge whose law firm was hired by the Birmingham City Council last month to find ways to block increases in sewer rates.
Bankruptcy was also supported by Arthur Payne, a Republican state lawmaker. Mr. Payne, who strongly opposed allowing Jefferson County to raise revenue to replace the occupational tax, said he considered the proposed settlement, which would have resulted in years of sewer rate hikes, ''unconscionable.''
''The people on the Jefferson County sewer system can't pay more than they've got,'' he said.
But those hoping for quick or easy solutions may be disappointed. After the city of Vallejo, Calif., recently emerged from a lengthy bankruptcy, some officials said they wished that they had untangled their problems on their own. Ultimately much of the power to bring Jefferson County out of its bankruptcy will rest with the same state and local officials who have been at odds in recent years.
A debtor in Chapter 9 does not necessarily have to get court approval before spending money, the way a corporation in Chapter 11 would. The court lacks authority to control a municipality's budget, taxation, provision of services or other activities. Creditors have less power, too, than in a corporate bankruptcy: they can't foreclose on government buildings and demand that they be sold to pay debts.
Some governments have discovered that once they entered Chapter 9 it did not make much difference in their ability to solve their problems. Mr. Maco, the former S.E.C. official, said Orange County's case showed the difficulties of the procedure. ''Their path out of bankruptcy was difficult,'' he said.
For instance, he said, before the county could issue new securities -- an essential step -- it had to get voters to approve a new tax, but the voters shot it down.
''It was not smooth sailing for them at all, but a lot of work,'' he said. ''There's a lot of work ahead for Jefferson County.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Carrington, president of the Jefferson County Commission, in Birmingham, after the county's first bankruptcy hearing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTIN SWANT/THE BIRMINGHAM NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); JUDGES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MAYORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BRIBERY (74%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (74%); CORRUPTION (74%); HISTORY (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); SECURITIES LAW (69%)

COMPANY: VINSON & ELKINS LLP (54%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (54%); JPM (LSE) (54%); 8634 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%)

PERSON: ROBERT BENTLEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (94%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (90%) ALABAMA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



487 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Appetite for Budget Bill, But Success Is in Doubt

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The idea of a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution is like pleated pants -- both go in and out of style as the years go by, although in this town, both have their reliable devotees.
This month, variations of the constitutional amendment -- which would stipulate that government cannot spend more tax dollars than it takes in -- will get their first votes in both chambers of Congress since 1995, as part of the law passed in August to raise the debt ceiling. The first vote will be next week in the House, with the Senate following sometime after Thanksgiving. 
While such a measure is always an uphill battle -- it would require a two-thirds majority in the House and Senate and ratification by three-fourths of the states -- it would seem that given cries for federal austerity, now would be an ideal time for an amendment to ripen.
With Republicans controlling the House, and many Democrats eager to prove themselves careful stewards of the nation's finances, there has been some increased interest in such an amendment. More balanced budget proposals have emerged in the first six months of this 112th Congress than in any since 1999, according to the Congressional Research Service.
But the effort, which House Speaker John A. Boehner earlier this year declared a top priority for his party, seems likely doomed, largely because of deep partisan divides over how such an amendment should be structured. As a result, both parties are positioning themselves to allow their lawmakers to claim to support a balanced budget plan even when none seems likely to pass.
Conservative Republicans in both chambers favor a version of the bill that features far more restrictions on spending and taxes than previous measures. That sort of bill would almost certainly fail to get the minimum 48 votes needed from House Democrats.
The version most likely to come to the floor of the Democrat-controlled Senate would prohibit Congress from providing income tax breaks for millionaires except in a time of surpluses while protecting Social Security from any spending cuts imposed by the amendment. Such tax policies targeting high earners have been anathema to Republicans.
''I think the proposal I put forward is the most common sense one and would create the most flexibility,'' said Senator Mark Udall, Democrat of Colorado, the bill's sponsor, cheerfully.
The House will attempt to bridge the gap by offering the Coke Classic version of balance budget amendments, nearly identical to the measure that passed the House in 1995 but then failed in the Senate by a single vote. That bill would simply prohibit outlays exceeding total receipts for that fiscal year, other than interest payments, unless Congress says otherwise in a three-fifths vote of each chamber as in times of war.
But that bill is also opposed by many Democrats, notably Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the No. 2 House Democrat and party whip, who voted for such a measure in the mid-1990s but says now that the economy is too fragile to risk it.
''At this point in time,'' Mr. Hoyer said to reporters recently, ''I would not support it.''
Further, many conservatives, especially in the Senate, say they will have no truck with the classic version because it does not go far enough.
''If we're going to amend the Constitution,'' said Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, ''It must be something that actually leads to the balancing of the budget. There may not be support in Congress for a real balanced budget amendment.''
Over the last few weeks, House Republicans pondered whether to bring to the floor the classic bill or their New Coke version, which would require a two-thirds majority in the House and the Senate to raise taxes and a spending cap of 18 percent of the gross domestic product, as well as a three-fifths roll call vote in each chamber to increase the debt limit. This version is very similar to a bill being offered in the Senate by Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah.
Both House bills are sponsored by Representative Robert W. Goodlatte, Republican of Virginia.
''I'd love to be able to limit the ability of the federal government to raise taxes and cap spending,'' said Mr. Goodlatte. ''But the question isn't between these two bills, it's between doing nothing and putting up one that has a chance to pass.'' A handful of Democratic sponsors, and the majority of the Republican conference, favor the classic version of the bill, and so it will receive a vote next week under an expedited procedure in the House.
Many economists question the merits of a balanced budget amendment, which has been contemplated since the days of Thomas Jefferson, the original government debt derider, who once suggested that the best weapon against the John Adams administration would be to remove the federal government's ability to incur debt..
''I am pretty skeptical of these amendments,'' said Donald Marron, director of the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center. ''We are so out of balance now that getting from here to balance would be tremendously difficult.'' Mr. Marron added, ''It is very hard to write down a set of constitutional rules that will have the flexibility to address the various shocks and crises as they happen.''
For Republicans these votes are win-win: a balanced budget amendment passes the full Congress (not so likely) or it fails and they use that failure as a weapon against Democrats by blaming them for the flop during the 2012 election (super likely).
Mr. Goodlatte said he knew that he had his work cut out for him, but he was hopeful that Democrats would support the classic version of the bill.
''If we don't get the minority whip's support that is unfortunate,'' he said. ''That will be a loss to this cause of fiscal responsibility.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DEBT CEILING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (66%); THANKSGIVING (55%); INCOME TAX (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (55%)

PERSON: STENY HOYER (56%); MARK UDALL (56%); JOHN BOEHNER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



488 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 2539 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times: Around Town

BYLINE: By ANNE MANCUSO

 BODY:
Museums and Sites
Brooklyn Historical Society: ' 'Jungle Fever' 20 Years Later' (Tuesday) ''Jungle Fever,'' the 1991 film by Spike Lee, will be screened and discussed during an event that is part of the project ''Crossing Borders, Bridging Generations,'' exploring the historic and cultural facets of mixed-race relationships. BAMcinematek is a co-sponsor of the event, which includes a discussion with Renee C. Romano, author of ''Race Mixing: Black-White Marriage in Postwar America'' (Harvard University Press); Michele Wallace, author of ''Black Macho and the Myth of the Superwoman'' (Verso Classics); and Imani Perry, author of ''Prophets of the Hood: Politics and Poetics in Hip Hop'' (Duke University Press). At 7 p.m., BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $12, $9 for students, $7 for members. 
Intrepid Sea, Air & Space Museum: Veterans Day (Friday through Thursday, through Nov. 20) At 8 feet tall and 240 feet long, it is not as large as the Vietnam Memorial in Washington, but the Dignity Memorial Vietnam Wall, a three-quarter scale model, is just as imposing in emotion. Inscribed with the thousands of names of those who died in the war or are missing, the wall which was created in 1990, has traveled to hundreds of cities across the country, but this is the first time it is on display in New York. It can be viewed 24 hours a day on Pier 86, outside the museum. A ceremony honoring veterans, with the tossing of wreaths into the Hudson River, will begin at 3 p.m. Admission is free to the ceremony and the memorial exhibit. 46th Street and 12th Avenue, Clinton, (877) 957-7447, intrepidmuseum.org.
Museum of the City of New York: 'Kevin Roche: Architecture as Environment' (Friday through Thursday) New York sites connected to the 89-year-old architect Kevin Roche -- among them the United Nations Plaza, the Ford Foundation building on 43rd Street and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, for which he designed more than 45 projects -- are the focus of an exhibition of his work that will be on view through Jan. 22. Daily, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., Museum of the City of New York, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street, (917) 492-3395, mcny.org; $10; $6 for students and 65+; free for children 12 and younger and members.
Museum of the Moving Image: Performance Art and a Panel Discussion (Friday through Sunday) Film as a catalyst for a performance piece and a discussion can be experienced in a visit this weekend to the museum. The multimedia artist Ming Wong has used the Ingmar Bergman 1966 film ''Persona'' as the inspiration for her movable piece ''Persona Performa'' that will be performed by an ensemble of 24 throughout the museum, Friday at 8 p.m.; tickets are $30, $25 for members. ''We Gotta Have It: The 20th Anniversary of the New Wave of Black Cinema'' is the focus of a discussion by a panel of filmmakers, including Nelson George; John Singleton will also participate, via Skype. Saturday at 3 p.m., 35th Avenue at 37th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 777-6800, movingimage.us. Tickets are $15, free for members.
New York City Police Museum: '9/11: A Uniform Response' (through Jan. 16) Photographs of the Sept. 11 attacks and response, taken by The Associated Press, will be on display at the New York City Police Museum. Mondays through Saturdays from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Sundays from noon to 5 p.m., 100 Old Slip between Water and South Streets, Lower Manhattan, (212) 480-3100, nycpm.org; $8, or $5 for students, children and 65+; free for children under 2, members of the service and museum members.
New York Transit Museum: 'ElectriCity: Powering New York's Rails' (continuing) A historical display of items from the museum collection, including switches and circuit breakers, that illustrates how electricity powers the subway system. Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Boerum Place and Schermerhorn Street, (718) 694-1600, mta.info/mta/museum; $7; $5 for those ages 2 to 17 and 62+; free for members.
Snug Harbor Cultural Center: 'If You Could See: The Alice Austen Story' (Friday through Sunday) This musical about the life of this photographer and feminist will be performed by the Sundog Theater, directed by Cynthia Cahill; it has a book and lyrics by Jeffrey Harper and music by Louis Tucci. Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 2 p.m., 1000 Richmond Terrace, Livingston, Staten Island, (800) 838-3006, Ext. 1, snug-harbor.org, sundogtheatre.org; $18, or $15 for students.
Events
Battle of Fort Washington Commemoration (Sunday) This annual celebration of the Revolutionary War battle fought -- and ultimately lost -- by the patriots in November of 1776 in an area of upper Manhattan referred to by some as the ''American Gibraltar,'' will feature a continental encampment, crafts workshops and lectures, from noon to 3 p.m. on the Cafe Lawn in Fort Tryon Park, reachable from Margaret Corbin Circle, Fort Washington Avenue, near West 190th Street. The event is sponsored by the City Department of Parks and Recreation. (212) 795-1388, ext. 300, nycgovparks.org; free.
'Canstruction' (through Nov. 21) When is a tuna can not just a tuna can? When it becomes part of an annual art installation to draw attention to the plight of needy New Yorkers. More than 25 teams of architects, engineers and designers have created art pieces out of cans of food that include models of the Brooklyn Bridge, a Converse sneaker and a traffic sign; when the installation -- which is also a competition -- closes, the cans will be donated to City Harvest for distribution around the city. Viewing hours: daily 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (till 5 p.m. on Nov. 21). World Financial Center, 220 Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 945-0505, artsworldfinancialcenter.com; admission is free, but visitors are encouraged to donate canned goods.
'Clowns Full-Tilt: A Musing on Aesthetics' (Fridays through Sundays and Thursdays through Nov. 20) Is a clown is a clown is a clown, regardless of gender? That might be a question to laugh over during performances by the all-female clown troupe, Clowns Ex Machina. The group, formed five years ago with Kendall Cornell as its leader, will perform Thursdays through Saturdays at 7:30 p.m. and Sundays at 2:30 p.m. La MaMa, 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710, lamama.org; $18, $13 for students, or $10 for those 10 and younger.
Friends of Dag Hammarskjold Plaza Street Fair (Saturday) From 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Lexington Avenue, between 42nd and 57th Streets.
Grand Central Terminal Holiday Fair (Monday through Dec. 24) The annual holiday fair, featuring craftspeople and items from around the world, will be set up in Vanderbilt Hall. Hours are Monday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., and Sunday, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.; it will be closed Thanksgiving Day; till 6 p.m. on Christmas Eve. Vanderbilt Avenue and 42nd Street, free.
Great Third Avenue Fair (Sunday) From 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., between 23rd and 34th Streets. Sponsored by Our Lady of the Scapular-St. Stephen's Church.
New York Comedy Festival (through Sunday) The laughs continue with noted funny people appearing around town this weekend. Performers include Tracy Morgan on Friday at 8 p.m. at the Beacon Theater. On Saturday, the lineup includes Kathy Griffin at Carnegie Hall at 8 p.m.; Bill Maher at the Beacon Theater at 7:30 p.m.; and Sarah Silverman and Friends at the Brooklyn Academy of Music at 8 p.m. Full schedule and locations: nycomedyfestival.com. Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, (212) 465-6500, beacontheatrenyc.com; $39 to $86.50. Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (800) 982-2787, the-townhall-nyc.org; $50.50 to $74.30. Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $44 to $90. Harvey Theater, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $36 to $46.
Performance and Tour on the High Line (Friday, Saturday and Monday) This elevated west side promenade will be the star and setting for two events this weekend. On Friday a walk along it, weather permitting, is included in a tour of neighboring Chelsea, led by Big Onion Walking Tours; it will meet at 2 p.m. in front of the Chelsea Hotel, 222 West 23rd Street; $18, $15 for students and 63+; (888) 606-9255; bigonion.com. On Saturday at noon (rain date is Sunday) and Monday at 5:30 p.m., rain or shine, the High Line itself will be the setting for a free traveling performance piece incorporating dance, music and aerobics, performed by Tyler Ashley and the Sarahs and presented by Performa 11 and Friends of the High Line; audience members are invited to join in. It will begin on the High Line at West 16th Street and travel to south Little West 12th Street; thehighline.org.
Veteran's Day Block Party (Friday) From 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. on 53rd Street, between Madison Avenue and Avenue of the Americas.
Veteran's Day Festival (Friday) From 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Broadway, between Cedar Street and Battery Place and on Whitehall Street, between Stone and Water Streets.
Veterans Day Parade (Friday) This annual tribute to those in the armed forces, sponsored by the United War Veterans Council, will feature thousands of participants including those in active service and veterans -- recipients of the Congressional Medal of Honor among them -- as well as public officials and actors like Cuba Gooding Jr. and Tom Selleck. This year it is dedicated to the 10th anniversary of Sept. 11. It will begin at 11:11 a.m. at Fifth Avenue and 23rd Street and travel north to 56th Street; a ceremony at 10 a.m. in nearby Madison Square Park will precede the parade.
Westbeth Artists Housing's 'Recession Proof Sale' (Friday through Sunday) Proceeds from this sale of clothing, home goods and toys, sponsored by the Westbeth Beautification Committee, benefit community projects and programs as well as charitable organizations like the Red Cross and Doctors Without Borders. Friday and Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sunday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., Westbeth Artists Housing Underground, 55 Bethune Street, (212) 691-1574, westbeth.org; free.
Spoken Word
'Beyond Amazing: Creativity and Innovation in the World of Magic' (Thursday) Four magicians who make it their business not to let you see what they have up their sleeves will talk about and demonstrate the art of magic in the 21st century. Taking part in the event, at 6 p.m., will be Steve Cohen, Joshua Jay, Eric Jones and Todd Robbins; Herb Scher, a writer and photographer, is the moderator. The New York Public Library for the Performing Arts, 40 Lincoln Center Plaza, (212) 870-1630, nypl.org/locations/lpa; free.
Conversation with Dr. Izzeldin Abuelaish (Sunday) Dr. Abuelaish, a Palestinian doctor who worked at an Israeli hospital and is the author of ''I Shall Not Hate: A Gaza Doctor's Journey on the Road to Peace and Human Dignity,'' will discuss his life and work with Mark Rosenblum, a history professor and director of the Center for Jewish Studies at Queens College. Reservations are necessary and can by made by calling (718) 268-5011, extension 151, or by e-mail, pkurtz@centralqueensy.org At 7 p.m. Forest Hills Jewish Center, 106-06 Queens Boulevard, centralqueensy.org/Abuelaish; $12, $10 in advance.
Staten Island Outloud: The Poetic Works of Tagore (Sunday) Poetry of the Indian writer Rabindranath Tagore, who received the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1913, will be center stage for this reading by the group Staten Island OutLoud at 3 p.m. Written in Bengali by Tagore, the pieces will be accompanied by translations in English and Hindi. Staten Island Hindu Temple, 1318 Victory Boulevard, (718) 907-0709, statenislandoutloud.org; free.
'Uptown Showdown: Cats vs. Dogs' (Monday) Think college debate teams with frat boys from ''Animal House.'' That is what one will find at this comedy debate series featuring comedians and writers for comedy shows, including A.D. Miles of ''Late Night With Jimmy Fallon''; Andrea Rosen, of Upright Citizens Brigade; and Michael Showalter author of ''Mr. Funny Pants'' (Grand Central Publishing, 2011). Debate topics will run the gamut, with the losing team maybe earning a pie in the face. Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org; $12.
Wolcott Gibbs Discussion (Monday) A discussion devoted to the life and works of the noted writer for The New Yorker who died in 1958, will feature the writers Mark Singer and Kurt Anderson, and Thomas Vinciguerra, editor of the anthology ''Backward Ran Sentences: The Best of Wolcott Gibbs From The New Yorker.'' At 7 p.m., New School, Theresa Lang Community and Student Center, 55 West 13th Street, Greenwich Village, newschool.edu; free.
Walking Tours
'Foods of the Lower East Side' (Friday and Saturday) The immigrant history of the Lower East Side will be observed and tasted on a tour of the area that includes stops for food sampling. Sponsored by the Lower East Side Tenement Museum, the tour meets at 1 p.m. at the Visitors Center, 108 Orchard Street, and costs $45; $40 for children, students and 65+; or $22 for members. The museum is at 91 Orchard Street. (866) 606-7232, tenement.org.
Garment Center Walking Tour (Friday) The future of the garment district will be one of the topics addressed on this tour led by Mike Kaback, meeting at 10 a.m. at 1411 Broadway, on the southwest corner of Broadway and 39th Street. (212) 370-4214, mikesnyctours.com; $20.
Grand Central Terminal Walking Tour (Wednesday) The historic terminal, which dates to 1913, is the subject of weekly tours on Wednesdays at 12:30 p.m. led by the Municipal Art Society, meeting at the information booth in the main concourse. Photo IDs are required: (212) 935-2075, mas.org/tours; $10.
In Depth Walking Tours: 'New York's Oldest, Narrowest, Crookedest Streets' (Saturday and Sunday) And you thought that city streets were strictly grid. This tour will meet at 11 a.m. in front of Trinity Church, Broadway and Wall Street. (917) 607-9019, indepthwalkingtours.com; $20, or $15 for 65+.
Joyce Gold History Tours of New York: Irish Hell's Kitchen (Saturday) New residents of Clinton may not know that they reside in a former hardscrabble neighborhood long known as Hell's Kitchen. The history of the area and the predominantly Irish immigrants that called it home will be covered on this tour meeting at 1 p.m. on the southeast corner of Ninth Avenue and 43rd Street. (212) 242-5762, joycegoldhistorytours.com; $18, or $15 for 62+.
Noshwalks: Woodside (Saturday) A little bit of everything will be sampled on this tour in Queens that includes stops at places offering Irish, Filipino, Mexican, French, Chinese and Cuban food. It meets at 1 p.m. in Vincent Daniels Square, 52nd Street and Roosevelt Avenue. $49; $44 for subscribers; $16 for children 6 to 12. noshwalks.com.
'Union Square: Crossroads of New York' (Saturday) A tour focusing on the area's political history meets at 2 p.m. by the statue of Lincoln in Union Square Park, near the 16th Street transverse. Sponsored by the Union Square Partnership, (212) 517-1826, unionsquarenyc.org; free. ANNE MANCUSO
Information on events for inclusion in Spare Times cane be sent to weekend@nytimes.com Expanded lists of Spare Times and For Children events are at nytimes.com/arts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: INTREPID SEA, AIR & SPACE MUSEUM: VETERANS DAY: (Friday) At 8 feet tall and 240 feet long, it is a three-quarter-size copy of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington. But the Dignity Memorial Vietnam Wall, inscribed with the thousands of names of those who died in that war or are still missing, is long on emotion. (Michael Albano, top, comforting Henry Bennudriti after finding the name of someone who had served with Mr. Bennudriti.) The granite wall, now on display here, can be viewed without charge 24 hours a day through Nov. 20, on Pier 86, 46th Street and 12th Avenue, Clinton. This stopover is its first in New York, but the wall has traveled to several hundred places across the country since 1990. Also part of the holiday commemoration on the pier will be a ceremony at 3 p.m., with the tossing of wreaths into the Hudson River. Other events in the city include the annual Veterans Day Parade, sponsored by the United War Veterans Council, beginning on Friday at 11:11 a.m. at Fifth Avenue and 23rd Street. And while events on Pier 86 are without charge, admission to the museum on Friday is not, except for veterans and their families, who are welcomed aboard free.Museum information: (877) 957-7447, intrepidmuseum.org. (Anne Mancuso) (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CALENDARS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); FILM HISTORY (78%); SPONSORSHIP (72%); HIP HOP CULTURE (71%); FOUNDATIONS (67%)

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



489 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: A Globetrotting Display With American Flair

BYLINE: By KAREN ROSENBERG

 BODY:
Europe may be a drag on our economy, but at least it continues to send us some of its better art fairs. Miami's version of Art Basel, returning next month for its 10th edition, has been enormously popular; a stateside London's Frieze will have its debut on Randalls Island this spring. And now the Pavilion of Art and Design, which began in Paris 14 years ago and expanded to London in 2007, has made a high-profile, auction-week entrance at the Park Avenue Armory.
The fair, known by its acronym PAD, is more design focused than its aforementioned peers. Although there's plenty of 19th- and 20th-century painting and sculpture on hand, it's often upstaged by bold pieces of furniture and decorative artworks. 
The mix caters to a new kind of shopper, one who's just as apt to be looking for a sofa to go under the painting as a painting to go over the sofa. And it acknowledges a certain blurring of the traditional categories, at the auction houses, on Web sites like 1stdibs (which is a sponsor of the fair) and at institutions like the Museum of Arts and Design.
As the collector Adam Lindemann writes in a preface to the fair's catalog, ''What used to be called the 'decorative arts' has now been dubbed 'design' and is often marketed as limited edition 'art,' or sometimes referred to as 'design/art.' ''
All of those labels seem to fit Beth Katleman's three-dimensional ''wallpaper,'' called ''Folly,'' at Todd Merrill. A clever take on the classic toile-de-jouy pattern, it floats tiny porcelain sculptural tableaus on a turquoise wall and incorporates elves and Barbies in lieu of frolicking aristocrats.
Just across the aisle the dealer and interior designer Chahan is exhibiting two bold, architectural ceramic sculptures by Peter Lane. And around the corner Barry Friedman's booth highlights Ron Arad's ''Restless'' bookcase: a swollen and warped grid of stainless steel.
Most of the 54 exhibitors hail from Europe; only about a fifth are from New York. Many pride themselves on being international tastemakers, showing you not only what to buy but also how you might live with it. The prominent booth of L'Arc en Seine, for instance, is a minimalist fantasia of pale-wood furniture set against ivory walls and carpeting.
Some exhibitors have created highly specialized tableaus, the equivalent of period rooms. If you are looking for French Art Deco, Vallois has nearly an entire booth of Ruhlmann furniture and archival photographs to match. And if you'd rather turn the clock back to the Vienna Secession, Yves Macaux can supply a stiff-backed living room set by Josef Hoffmann.
The art, by and large, is more conservative than the design. But much of it is of museum quality: a wintry Monet landscape at Boulakia, a Morandi still life at Robilant & Voena and a Modigliani double portrait (''Bride and Groom'') at Landau.
And although Pierre Bonnard, Jean Metzinger and Christian Schad may not be quite as sought after, all are at their best in paintings at Custot, Beraudiere and Macaux. These three works show women seated in front of windows, though the similarity ends there.
The contemporary art is strictly blue chip or safely contextualized (as Wade Guyton's inkjet prints are with Koons and Warhol, at Stellan Holm). But that doesn't mean it can't be fun; at Van de Weghe, Duane Hanson's ''Bus Stop Lady,'' a scarily lifelike sculpture of a Fort Lauderdale, Fla., shopper, is flanked by a punchy yellow-orange Frank Stella and a late Warhol that reads, ''Somebody Wants to Buy Your Apartment Building!''
Some diversity would have been welcome, beyond the two booths offering African sculpture (Entwistle and Alain de Monbrison) and the smattering of Latin American modernists, including the Venezuelan Op-artist Carlos Cruz-Diez, at the Mayor Gallery.
And at times I wished that the fair's organizers, the French dealers Patrick Perrin and Stephane Custot, had embraced a more expansive definition of ''good taste.'' Many of the booths look as if they had been plucked from the pages of Elle Decor or Architectural Digest: a Gio Ponti here, a Richard Prince there.
I found at least one riotous exception at Jason Jacques, where a swirly Art Nouveau fireplace by Hector Guimard -- made from reconstituted lava -- shares space with spiky, animelike creatures by the contemporary Danish ceramicist Michael Geertsen.
And I marveled at the audacity of Gmurzynska, where paintings by the Dadaist Kurt Schwitters and an assemblage of a wagon wheel and a cigar-store Indian by the Pop artist Robert Indiana sat incongruously in a gray-walled booth designed by Karl Lagerfeld. The combination suggested a jet setter with some classic modern baggage and an American accent -- which is not a bad description of this newly arrived fair.
The Pavilion of Art and Design continues through Monday at the Park Avenue Armory, 643 Park Avenue, at 67th Street; (212) 616-3930, padny.net

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pavilion of Art and Design: Barry Friedman's booth displays Ian Ingram's ''Pierrot,'' left, and ''Embers Under Flame,'' with Wendell Castle's black walnut chair and Ron Arad's bookcase, ''Restless,'' in front. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); PAINTING (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); INTERIOR DECORATING (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (72%) FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



490 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: Wind Money Fuels Spending and Benefits in Small Schools

BYLINE: By MORGAN SMITH. 
msmith@texastribune.org

 BODY:
BLACKWELL, Tex. -- When people complain about the weather here, Abe Gott, the school superintendent, just smiles.
A visit to the campus of the school district of about 160 students shows why. Behind the 1930s-era facade of the Blackwell school 30 miles south of Sweetwater looms a distinctly 21st-century sight: a wind turbine.
Energy development capitalizing on the high winds in the area -- which quickly turned sunshine to chill rain one afternoon in late October -- has injected sluggish rural communities with new economic lifeblood. More than one local resident has called it the ''windfall,'' and it has bestowed hundreds of millions of dollars on West Texas schools.
By the 2018-19 school year, Mr. Gott's district will have received about $35 million from a deal it brokered with a wind farm company in 2005. On the school grounds, $15 million from a combination of bond and wind farm revenue has paid for a new football stadium and academic complex attached to the original school building. About $28 million sits in a foundation earmarked for scholarships; graduates receive $3,000 for each year they have spent in the district, which they can put toward any type of professional advancement, from a beauty school certificate to a bachelor's degree. 
The influx of wealth has also enabled the district to buy an iPad for every student, starting in the seventh grade.
''What I wanted is, if you grew up in a town of 350 people in West Texas, that should not work against you,'' Mr. Gott said. ''We can send you to Harvard, we can send you to Baylor, we can send you to Texas Tech -- we can send you anywhere because we have the pathway to get there.''
About 69 districts across Texas -- mostly rural, tiny schools -- continue to benefit from a now-extinct quirk in the state's school finance law that has led to what some consider an embarrassment of riches. How they spend the money, however, could be a valuable experiment in innovation in public education.
The money comes from a Chapter 313 agreement, which allows districts to offer breaks on property taxes for select manufacturing, technology and renewable-energy projects as part of the Texas Economic Development Act, which the Legislature passed in 2001. The law allowed districts to cap property appraisals so that businesses paid taxes on less than the full value of the property while the state largely offset their resulting revenue loss.
For example, in Roscoe, just up the road from Blackwell, a wind company pays taxes on $10 million instead of on the property's 2009 total estimated value of $378 million.
According to a 2010 report from the state comptroller's office, 65 percent of those agreements are with renewable-energy companies, mostly wind farms.
In 2009, the Legislature closed a loophole that allowed districts to negotiate unlimited side deals in which they received direct cash payments in lieu of taxes based on the savings companies received from the state economic incentives. The side deals -- and the inequity they perpetuated -- led to a public outcry, and now such agreements are held to about $100 per student each year. School districts across the state spend an average of $8,572 to educate a student, according to a Texas Education Agency spokeswoman.
''Schools still get help; counties still get help -- they just don't get as much as they got during the old program,'' said Joe Heflin, the former Democratic state representative from Crosbyton who wrote the bill closing the loophole. Even without more money from wind companies, Mr. Heflin said, their presence still helps districts by technically allowing them to lower their taxes by adding more property value on the tax rolls.
Meanwhile, the investments that districts put in place with money from wind deals made before 2009 are beginning to make their mark. Because of programs that the Roscoe I.S.D. started with its supplemental payments, the district received a grant from the Texas Education Agency's Texas High School Project, making it the first model rural early-college high school in 2009.
Roscoe will receive a projected $11 million over 10 years. It has used the money to build a state-of-the-art academic facility -- the Eon Center for Innovation and Higher Education, named for the Canadian alternative energy company that made it possible -- and to hire instructional coaches, a new dean and an early-college director.
''What we didn't want to do is get a two-year grant, and when the grant expires we can't maintain the program,'' Kim Alexander, the superintendent, said, adding, ''Without the wind company, we would not have had the means to even enter into the early-college arena.''
As an early-college school, Roscoe joins a handful of Texas schools that partner with local community colleges to let students begin taking college courses in ninth grade instead of in their junior year. Students can graduate with an associate's degree at no additional cost.
The goal, Mr. Alexander said, is for 90 percent of Roscoe students to do that by 2015.
It is an undertaking made much more daunting by his projection that by that year, 90 percent of Roscoe students will be from low socioeconomic and English-language-learning backgrounds, making them some of the most challenging -- and expensive -- to educate.
As the program continues, the district, which has 369 students, is keeping track of its methods in the hope that they can be replicated elsewhere. ''We think it's going to be a significant way to develop a model to break the poverty cycle,'' Mr. Alexander said.
Moving forward, there are signs that even in their current, more limited form, Chapter 313 deals may be endangered. Late last year, the comptroller's office released a critical report, saying the supplemental payments, even capped, may be an incentive for districts to enter into agreements that do not benefit the state. The report recommended ending such payments.
Dan Casey, a school finance expert whose consulting firm represents school districts in Chapter 313 deals, said he expected ''substantial scrutiny'' on all of the state's economic incentive programs before the next legislative session, though he added that he thought the changes carried out in 2009 had already taken care of many concerns about the law.
For now, the new future of Chapter 313 money can be seen in Haskell County, the birthplace of Gov. Rick Perry, about 90 miles north of Roscoe, where the district is in the initial stages of an agreement that would mean approximately $60,000 more for the local schools.
The increase in property value could also make the Haskell district a Chapter 41 school, said Bill Alcorn, the district's superintendent, meaning it would need to begin sharing its tax revenue with the state through Robin Hood laws. Still, Mr. Alcorn called the contract a ''plus-plus'' for the district.
''It may not be as lucrative as it was some years ago,'' he said, ''but it's in the contract that we will in no way be worse off than what we would have been without it. It gives us options of floating a bond, building something, letting the wind farm company pay for some things.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Some West Texas school districts are awash in wind farm money. The Blackwell district, where a turbine overlooks the school, has a new football stadium, left. Roscoe provides a laptop to each student. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AXEL GERDAU FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); WIND ENERGY (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); WEATHER (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); COSMETOLOGY & BARBER SCHOOLS (73%); WIND POWER PLANTS (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (67%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (66%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (64%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



491 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: After Downfall, Veteran Finds New Purpose

BYLINE: By NIKO KOPPEL

 BODY:
From his 12th-story window in the Bronx, Joseph Tomasello took in a panoramic view of the landscape by the evening light.
Looking past the small prayer cards -- St. Anthony, patron of lost things, was among those pictured -- that leaned against the glass pane, his gaze settled on St. Augustine's Roman Catholic Church, which stood out like a beacon in the distance.
''It's really sustained me,'' Mr. Tomasello, 57, an Air Force veteran, said of the parish in the Morrisania neighborhood. Here, he has found a purpose again as a devoted member of St. Augustine's congregation. He is even studying to be a deacon. But to get to this point, he had to pull himself out of a spiral of homelessness and emotional instability that had brought him to the brink.
''I did fear that my problems had taken over me,'' he said. 
Originally from Queens, Mr. Tomasello said he owned a record store in the East Village before joining the Air Force. He worked on F-15 Eagle jets as a computer technician before leaving the military in 1990. He married, and he owned a fleet of bicycle taxis in the city, he said. In 2001, after separating from his wife, he left New York for Lake Placid, in the Adirondacks, where he tried to start over again.
In 2009, seeking a reconciliation, he sold most of his possessions and moved to Jackson Heights, Queens, where his wife and two youngest children lived. After about five months it became clear that the arrangement was not working out, he said, and he moved to a nearby hotel.
As his money dried up, his living conditions steadily declined.
''I went from 10 acres, riverfront property, to living with cockroaches crawling up the walls,'' Mr. Tomasello said.
Mr. Tomasello, who had managed to find work as an operator for New York City's 311 system, was rooming in Jackson Heights last November when the Fire Department shuttered the building because it had been converted illegally. So he checked into the 30th Street Men's Shelter in Manhattan. The next night, he moved to a shelter in the Bronx for working people. A court in Essex County, N.Y., had already imposed a lien of $480 a month on his bank account for unpaid child support. Unable to cover the minimum payment required to stay in the Bronx shelter, he moved to another one in East New York, Brooklyn.
It was there, in March 2011, after working his 4-to-midnight shift, that Mr. Tomasello awoke to find four men surrounding him. They knocked out his front teeth and bruised his ribs, sending him to the emergency room. The men stole a $150 money order and about $150 in cash, he said.
After the attack, Mr. Tomasello moved to a veterans' shelter in Long Island City, Queens. But in May, after nearly eight months, he lost his job as a 311 operator. He said his run of bad luck had exacerbated his physical and mental difficulties.
One of the worst parts, he said, was having his children witness his downfall. ''They saw me at the bottom,'' he said.
Somehow, he began the climb back to stability. Through HUD/VASH -- a program of the Department of Housing and Urban Development and Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing, which helps homeless veterans find affordable housing -- he was placed in a one-bedroom apartment in a building for low-income residents, on Third Avenue in the Bronx, in July.
Mr. Tomasello's portion of the monthly rent is $152. He receives $314 a month in unemployment benefits and $200 a month in food stamps. When he arrived at his new home, he slept on the floor for a week because he could not afford a bed.
''Five dollars makes a difference whether I do this or that,'' he said. ''I run out of minutes on my phone and I don't talk to anyone for a week.''
A social worker at the Veterans Affairs Department referred him to the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. He received $800 from the fund and bought a kitchen table, stools and a reclining chair.
On his first night at his new place, Mr. Tomasello attended a St. Augustine Mass. He said he found a new sense of home and family at the church, which, like him, had fallen on hard times. Sections of the roof have caved in. Two years ago, services were moved from the main building to a school nearby.
Mr. Tomasello, who has resolved his child-support issues, is awaiting a call about a job as a subway station booth collector for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. But with all that he has been through, he feels compelled to help others. He volunteers at his parish's food pantry and participates in a work-therapy program at the Veterans Affairs Department's New York Harbor Healthcare System campus on East 23rd Street, where he helps out patients in the emergency room.
''There's so much kindness in the world that people don't even see,'' Mr. Tomasello said.
''I wanted a wife, kids, home and the nuclear family, and the 'Hi, honey!' when I came home,'' he added. ''I can't have this, but I have a future.''
HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All donations are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or at nytimes.com /neediest. To find out how to donate stock, call (212) 556- 1137 or fax (212) 556-1979. In recognition of its 100th anniversary and to thank its loyal donors for their generosity over the years, the fund will send gifts to individuals who donate $250 or more to the 2011-12 campaign, beginning Nov. 6, while supplies last. Gifts of $250 - $499: a boxed set of note cards, valued at $15.95. Gifts of $500 - $999: a 2012 journal valued at $39.99. Gifts of $1,000 and over: a $50 gift card from The New York Times Store. If you do not wish to receive a gift with your donation, please drop us a note along with your check. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The New York Times Company pays all administrative costs of the fund, so every dollar donated to the fund goes directly to serve those in need. The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has been recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as a not-for-profit public charity under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Contributions to the fund are tax-deductible to the extent permitted by law. Please note that for federal income tax purposes, you may be eligible to deduct as a charitable contribution the amount of your contribution less the value of the gift as indicated above. Federal Identification Number: 13-6066063. A copy of the Neediest Cases Fund's latest annual financial report may be obtained, upon request, from the fund or from the New York State Attorney General's Charities Bureau, Attn: FOIL Officer, 120 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10271. To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joseph Tomasello, an Air Force veteran, gazes down from the window of his new one-bedroom apartment, on Third Avenue in the Bronx. On his first night there, Mr. Tomasello attended Mass. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KIRBY SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR FORCES (90%); VETERANS (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); RELIGION (77%); ARMED FORCES (75%); MOUNTAINS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (73%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (73%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (69%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (67%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (60%); CONTUSIONS (60%); HOMELESSNESS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (54%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



492 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: A Rebound in Europe, Followed by the U.S.

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; David Jolly, Kevin Drew and Sei Chong contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Stocks recovered on Thursday in the United States and in Europe and the euro strengthened slightly after Italy managed a successful offering of debt securities, though at a sharply higher rate than the last time it went to auction.
Although confidence has yet to return to the financial markets, the performance in equities was an about-face from the global sell-off on Wednesday when yields on Italian government bonds exceeded 7 percent -- a level that is considered unsustainable and similar to the trend that precipitated other euro zone bailouts.
On Thursday, Italy raised 5 billion euros, or $6.8 billion, in an auction of one-year securities. The Italian treasury sold the full allotment, but it paid an average rate of 6.09 percent to do so, far above the 3.57 percent it paid for a similar offering on Oct. 3. It was also the most Italy has paid for such debt since September 1997, when the country still used the lira. 
Yields on the bonds fell back below the 7 percent level, to 6.86 percent on Thursday; secondary-market purchases by the European Central Bank were a factor, according to news agency reports.
But even as yields fell below 7 percent, investors still appeared to be betting on a higher likelihood of an Italian debt default. Credit-default swap rates for Italy remained close to record levels, but were still far below those of countries like Ireland and Portugal. The cost to insure $10 million of debt for five years is now $567,000 annually, up from $566,000 on Wednesday, according to figures released by Markit.
Jack A. Ablin, the chief investment officer for the Harris Private Bank, called Thursday's widely assumed action by the European Central Bank a way of absorbing problems rather than solving them, and said that the markets had had an ''emotional rebound,'' rather than a real one, especially when compared with stock declines of more than 400 points on Wednesday.
''The E.C.B is a good cushion,'' he said. ''These are the mercurial swings of investor emotion.''
There was one victory for the embattled euro zone, as Moody's Investors Service on Thursday assigned the top AAA rating to the European Financial Stability Facility's new 10-year benchmark bond. The facility, Europe's main bailout vehicle, is backed by the finances of the euro zone countries, and there had been concern that the bonds would not get a top rating.
The Standard & Poor's 500-share index was up 10.6 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,239.70, after plummeting 3.7 percent on Wednesday. The Dow Jones industrial average was up almost 113 points, or 1 percent, at 11,893.79. The Nasdaq composite index was up 0.1 percent at 2,625.15.
Green Mountain Coffee Roasters lost 39 percent, to $40.89, and Delta Petroleum shed 65 percent, to 70.99 cents.
Delta said that it had not found a buyer for its assets and raised the possibility it would seek bankruptcy protection if it could not strike a deal, and Green Mountain reported sales that fell below forecasts.
The Treasury's benchmark 10-year bond fell 18/32, to 99 16/32; the yield rose to 2.06 percent, from 1.97 percent on Wednesday.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chip shares, closed down 0.3 percent after a rise of 1.1 percent, while the FTSE 100 index in London was down 0.3 percent. The major index in Germany was up 0.7 percent, while France was down 0.3 percent.
Officials in Brussels added some gloom with a report that said the economy of the European Union had ground to a standstill, with a prediction of 0.5 percent growth in 2012 and a return to slow growth of about 1.5 percent expected by 2013.
''Growth has stalled in Europe, and there is a risk of a new recession,'' the European economic and monetary affairs commissioner, Olli Rehn, said in a statement, warning that ''no real improvement is forecast in the unemployment situation in the E.U. as a whole'' any time soon.
The dollar was lower against other major currencies. The euro steadied at $1.3602 on Thursday from $1.3553 on Wednesday.
In Asia, markets declined sharply Thursday, catching up with Wednesday's action on Wall Street.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders worked the floor Thursday at the New York Stock Exchange. Major indexes closed higher despite investor caution. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TRENDS (77%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COFFEE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); BMO HARRIS BANK NA (66%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%); GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%)

TICKER: GMCR (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (66%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (66%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (97%); EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PORTUGAL (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



493 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Arab League Support Sought in Pressuring Syria on Violence

BYLINE: By NADA BAKRI

 BODY:
BEIRUT, Lebanon -- Two leading international human rights organizations are calling on the Arab League to back the referral of Syria to the International Criminal Court for committing crimes against humanity in its ferocious campaign to crush an eight-month uprising.
Amnesty International, in a statement on Thursday, and Human Rights Watch, in a report to be released Friday, called on the League to support a move by the United Nations Security Council to refer Syria to the court and to impose an arms embargo on Syria. 
The calls for action by Arab nations came as Syrian forces killed at least 30 people on Thursday, mostly in the city of Homs, in apparent defiance of an agreement brokered by the Arab League last week to end the violence. The deaths included a newborn and five other children.
Activists in Syria also said that four soldiers were killed in an attack on their checkpoint by armed men in the northwestern province of Idlib.
The New York-based Human Rights Watch is to release a 63-page report on Friday focused on Homs, the country's third largest city, which has been under siege for more than a week as troops loyal to the government battle army defectors.
The report, based on interviews with more than 110 victims and witnesses from mid-April, a month after the uprising against the government of President Bashar al-Assad started, until August, found grave abuses committed against unarmed civilians, including women, the elderly and children. The crimes included unlawful killings, torture and forced disappearances.
At least 587 people were killed in Homs Province during that period, the report found, the highest death toll for a single province in the government's crackdown on the uprising. A total of 3,500 people have been killed nationwide, according to a United Nations report released Tuesday.
Since last Wednesday, when Syria agreed to the Arab League-sponsored peace initiative, at least 104 people have been killed in the Homs area, Human Rights Watch said. It said that 17 of them had died in custody, and 12 from torture.
''Homs is a microcosm of the Syrian government's brutality,'' Sarah Leah Whitson, Middle East director at Human Rights Watch, said in the report. ''The Arab League needs to tell President Assad that violating their agreement has consequences, and that it now supports Security Council action to end the carnage.''
The Arab League is set to meet in an emergency session on Saturday to discuss Syria's failure to comply with the initiative, in which it agreed to remove its tanks and armored vehicles from the streets, halt violence against protesters and begin dialogue with the opposition.
Arab diplomats said that they would consider imposing economic sanctions on Syria and suspending its membership in the League, a demand of many Syrian opposition groups. Such a move would be humiliating to a government that has cast itself as the pre-eminent force behind Arab unity.
In addition to its call for the League to back prosecution of Syria at the international court and endorse an arms embargo, Human Rights Watch also urged the League to suspend Syria's membership and to back sanctions against those responsible for rights abuses.
Amnesty International, based in London, also called for freezing the assets of Mr. Assad and his top aides.
The Human Rights Watch report also found widespread torture in detention centers, including the burning of detainees with heated metal rods, the use of electric shock, forcing detainees to maintain stress positions for long periods, and forcing them into tires in a way that makes it easier to beat them on sensitive body parts.
The group also noted that Syrian security forces fired heavy machine guns, including antiaircraft guns mounted on vehicles, on the civilian neighborhoods of Homs and nearby towns. The tactic was meant to terrify people before deploying troops in armored personal carriers. The security forces also restricted people's movement by setting up checkpoints, and they controlled delivery of food and medicine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); TORTURE (89%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); HOMICIDE (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); ARMIES (76%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); ARMS EMBARGOES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (94%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (84%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (84%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) SYRIA (95%); LEBANON (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



494 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Filling of Vacancies Lags in County Health System

BYLINE: By ADRIENNE LU. 
alu@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
Nearly two years after the Cook County Board of Commissioners voted to make more money available for H.I.V. and AIDS testing for detainees entering the Cook County Jail, most of the men coming into jail are not being tested because of a lengthy delay in hiring a phlebotomist to do the job.
Some 150 to 250 detainees enter the jail each day, on average, 80 percent of them male. The women are routinely tested for H.I.V. and AIDS, but another phlebotomist is needed to collect and process blood specimens from the men. 
The vacancy, which may soon be filled, is just one of several hundred in the county's health system. In addition to the health issues that are not being addressed, delays in filling the positions have led to high overtime costs and complaints by employees, particularly nurses, who say they are being overworked, to the detriment of patients.
''The hospital has tons of vacant positions, and they have made huge strides in a lot of areas,'' said Commissioner Bridget Gainer, who led the effort to routinely test detainees for H.I.V. and AIDS, ''but human resources is an area where they just have not been able to move as quickly as they need to.''
As of Aug. 31, the Cook County Health and Hospitals System had spent $28 million on overtime since the start of the fiscal year on Dec. 1, well over the $21.3 million target for the entire year. Overtime as a percentage of hours worked in the second and third quarters of the year was 9.5 percent to 9.9 percent, nearly twice the target of 5 percent, according to a county report issued by the office of the Cook County board president, Toni Preckwinkle.
Even the precise number of vacancies is a subject of dispute. The health system estimates the number at about 800. Ms. Preckwinkle's office puts it closer to 1,415. Some of those positions are carried on the books for as little as $1 a year to allow the position to be filled if money becomes available. Others, including many at Oak Forest Hospital, will not be filled because of plans to convert the hospital into an outpatient clinic.
The county health system, which has been managed by an independent board since 2008 but continues to rely on a subsidy from the county, has about 6,500 employees.
In a time of high unemployment, there would seem to be many people clamoring to fill the open positions. So why are there so many vacancies?
According to Marisa Kollias, a spokeswoman for the system, decisions to fill vacancies must be approved by a recruitment and talent team in the human resources department and a position-control committee that assigns priorities to staffing the positions.
Adding to the delays, Ms. Kollias said, certain jobs that come open must be made available to union employees who lose their jobs elsewhere in the health system, and that can set off a series of reassignments based on seniority and union contracts.
''We are working diligently right now to get a number of these spots filled,'' Ms. Kollias said.
But officials said hiring had been so slow that they were budgeting only enough money to fill one-fifth of the vacancies in the next fiscal year in order to free money for other expenditures.
The health system hired 204 new employees this year through mid-October, Ms. Kollias said, noting that the number was higher than the 125 added in the comparable period last year.
Asked at a budget hearing Wednesday how long it took to hire someone in the health system, Deborah Tate, director of human resources for the system, estimated an average of 90 to 120 days.
Doris Kelley, a nurse clinician in the department of quality and accreditation, was asked earlier this year to serve on a recruitment and retention committee. But after a couple of meetings, Ms. Kelley said, the panel was suspended and has not met for about six months.
''We had all these big plans to have a recruitment and retention seminar, try to review applications, and nothing has happened since then,'' she said.
Ms. Kelley also said she applied for another job in the health system more than a year ago but has not received a response.
According to Ms. Kollias, the phlebotomist job has been offered to someone who is expected to begin work in late November. She said the health system took over responsibility for its own recruitment in September 2010, from the county's human resources department.
Public health advocates say they are puzzled as to why the health system has moved so slowly on the phlebotomist vacancy, particularly since money was authorized specifically to test inmates for H.I.V. and AIDS.
H.I.V. and AIDS rates are typically two to three times higher among inmates nationwide than in the general population, according to public health experts, so diagnosing and treating inmates is an important step in limiting transmission of the disease.
''It's really a missed opportunity, and it's a shame that they haven't been able to fill the positions that they need,'' said John Peller, vice president of policy at the AIDS Foundation of Chicago.
''We have asked, 'So how's it going?' but you hear, 'It's the hiring process, it's the bureaucracy,' '' Mr. Peller said. ''It's really hard to understand why this continues to be where it is. I've also heard, 'We're about to hire somebody, we're about to hire somebody' a couple times.''
Commissioner Gainer said she, too, was disappointed that the position had remained vacant for so long.
''This is a tragedy for a population without good access to health care and reverberates through the community as a lost public health opportunity,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Cook County Jail is supposed to test most incoming detainees for H.I.V. and AIDS, but it lacks the manpower to do so. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE)
 Dr. Shari Schabowski, an emergency room doctor at Stroger Hospital, appeared before the Cook County Board's Finance Committee in October to argue against proposed budget cuts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN KONSTANTARAS/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); AIDS & HIV TESTING (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); AIDS POLICY (89%); OVERTIME (89%); APPROVALS (73%); HOSPITALS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



495 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: City Election Signals a Shift to the Right

BYLINE: By GERRY SHIH and MATT SMITH. 
gshih@baycitizen.org msmith@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
To celebrate his unofficial victory in the San Francisco mayor's race Tuesday night, Edwin M. Lee was joined onstage at the Palace Hotel by one of his most influential backers, Ron Conway, the Republican Silicon Valley investor.
For many political observers, it was a symbolic moment: The most liberal city in America had just tacked to the right.
San Francisco is still a one-party town; for years, the BART Commissioner James Fang has been the only elected Republican.
But Tuesday's election signaled a palpable shift: In addition to Mr. Lee, a pro-business moderate, voters overwhelmingly picked George Gascon, the law-and-order former police chief -- and former Republican -- as district attorney. 
''To whoever thinks San Francisco is loopy and left-wing, this election basically said, 'No, it's really not,' '' said David Latterman, associate director of the Leo T. McCarthy Center for Public Service and the Common Good at the University of San Francisco. ''We just elected an ex-Republican, pro-death penalty district attorney by a landslide. Just ponder that.''
''More conservative is the new normal,'' Mr. Latterman added.
Analysts said that Mr. Lee and Mr. Gascon -- both appointed to interim positions after their predecessors were elected to state office a year ago -- benefited from a ranked-choice voting system that tends to favor incumbents. And John Avalos, the left-leaning supervisor, finished a strong second to Mr. Lee, an indication that the progressives are still very much alive in San Francisco.
But analysts said the city's changing demographics and a tough economic climate were pushing San Francisco toward the political center.
That shift is personified by Mr. Lee, a political neophyte who owed his victory to two increasingly powerful constituencies: the city's growing Chinese-American community and a booming technology sector.
Both groups are a source of significant financial resources and typically hold more conservative views than the progressives, particularly on fiscal issues.
''The progressive movement is getting weaker,'' said former Mayor Art Agnos, one of its standard-bearers. ''They have not been organizing and doing the kinds of things I did when I was in office. They can't raise money to compete with wealthy contributors.''
The progressives -- led by Aaron Peskin, the Democratic Party chairman, and former Supervisor Chris Daly, liberal firebrands who cemented their reputations by opposing development -- began to falter last November, when a wave of moderate supervisors were swept into office. Two months later, former Mayor Willie L. Brown Jr. and Rose Pak, the Chinatown political consultant, made an aggressive behind-the-scenes push to appoint Mr. Lee, then the city administrator, as interim mayor.
Since August, when Mr. Lee announced that he would seek a full term, he pushed a pro-business agenda, often drawing attention to the tax break he had negotiated with Twitter to prevent the company from leaving San Francisco. Although the city lost tens of millions of dollars in forgone payroll tax revenue, Mr. Lee emphasized the potential for creating new jobs as Twitter continued to grow and revitalizing a blighted section of Market Street.
Mr. Avalos and the Service International Employees Union, the city's largest labor union, criticized the deal as a corporate giveaway. But Mr. Lee won support from the tech industry, including Mr. Conway, who raised $600,000 for a high-profile independent expenditure campaign in support of Mr. Lee's candidacy. The campaign included a highly successful video featuring the entertainer M. C. Hammer, the Giants pitcher Brian Wilson, the Google executive Marissa Mayer and Biz Stone, the Twitter co-founder.
From a political perspective, the tech companies are employing young workers who often prefer to live in San Francisco, even if they commute to Silicon Valley, said Wade Randlett, a Bay Area technology executive and top fund-raiser for President Obama.
That constituency is ''immensely practical, nonideological, centrist,'' Mr. Randlett said. ''Even if that person is a 23-year-old computer science graduate who is a rabid national Democrat, who would never consider a Republican for president, that person looks at the Twitter tax break and says, 'That's a no-brainer.' ''
At the same time, the first mayoral election to feature five Chinese-American candidates appears to have energized a Chinese population that historically showed little interest in politics. Chinese-Americans now make up nearly a quarter of the city's population, and they are making San Francisco more conservative, said David Lee, executive director of the nonpartisan Chinese Americans Voters Education Committee, who has studied Chinese voting patterns.
''They tend to be more small-business-oriented, more fiscally conservative voters,'' Mr. Lee said. ''But also socially conservative.''
Compared with the rest of San Francisco, areas of the city with large Chinese populations leaned more in favor of Proposition 8, California's ban on same-sex marriage, as well as keeping junior ROTC in public schools, another controversial issue, Mr. Lee said.
Many analysts said they expected this trend to continue.
''The population of the city in the latest census went over 800,000 for the first time in its history, and that population is getting older and more Asian,'' said Jim Lazarus, a vice president at the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce.
San Francisco's political mood is also closely tied to the economy, as it is nationally.. Mr. Daly and Mr. Peskin both rose to power in 2000, the height of the dot-com boom, when the city's liberal majority was growing wary of unchecked development and the widening income gap. An annual survey conducted that year by the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce found that lack of affordable housing and homelessness were residents' top concerns, followed by ''too much growth and development.''
In the past two years, those issues have been overtaken by concerns about jobs and the economy. Those conditions favor more centrist, pro-business candidates, said Mr. Lazarus of the Chamber of Commerce.
''People are willing to experiment with progressive ideas,'' said Mr. Lee, of the Chinese Americans Voter Education Committee. ''But when the economy is low, they're saying, 'Hey, get me a job' or 'Why don't you do something?' People are less generous.''
The decline of the progressive movement, said Matt Gonzalez, a former mayoral candidate who challenged Mayor Gavin Newsom in 2003, could be partly attributed to gains the movement made on social issues over the past 10 years, which have blurred the distinction between political camps.
''When I look at some of the progressive issues we made progress on -- the city's attitude toward gay marriage, the death penalty, mitigation fees that have to go to affordable housing -- when these things were first proposed less than a decade ago, there was a great deal of resistance,'' Mr. Gonzalez said. ''Now, the quote-unquote establishment candidates have had to join onboard those issues to remain viable in this town.''
But Mr. Agnos, 73, warned that the demise of the left had long been a familiar refrain in San Francisco politics -- one that has always been proved wrong.
''Whenever a liberal loses, they say liberalism is dead,'' said Mr. Agnos, who was defeated in 1992 after serving one term. ''That was 20 years ago. And suddenly it's dying again. How many deaths can it have?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A supporter of Mayor Edwin M. Lee on Tuesday. Changing demographics and the economy influenced voting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); ASIAN AMERICANS (62%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



496 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Museum of Modern Art Reunites Rivera Murals

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
When Diego Rivera came to New York from Mexico City in 1931 to paint murals for the Museum of Modern Art, The New Yorker wrote that he liked ''the Ghetto, the Savoy dance hall in Harlem, Little Italy, the Pennsylvania and Grand Central stations, and American plumbing.''
Rivera also enjoyed working late into the night in a makeshift studio with no heat (heat would have made the paint dry too quickly) in an empty gallery at the museum. 
It was there that he produced five ''portable murals,'' large blocks of free-standing frescoed plaster, concrete and steel that depict events in Mexican history. After the exhibition opened, Rivera created three more murals, each capturing scenes of Depression-era New York. Now, for the first time in 80 years, five of the murals will be united at ''Diego Rivera: Murals for the Museum of Modern Art,'' which opens Sunday and runs through May 14.
The show will also feature three eight-foot working drawings for the murals as well as related materials -- watercolors, sketches and prints -- for his Rockefeller Center mural.
MoMA was a young institution in 1931; Rivera was only the second artist to have a retrospective there (Matisse was the first), and his show ''broke all attendance records,'' said Leah Dickerman, a curator in the museum's department of painting and sculpture. Over the years the murals have scattered. Some are in private and public Mexican collections; two are at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, one at Smith College Museum of Art and another at MoMA. One is missing.
Ms. Dickerman says the show will be particularly interesting to New York audiences because these large-scale works have barely been seen here. The subject matter, she added, should also resonate. One mural, called ''Frozen Assets,'' is in three tiers: the top shows a skyline of skyscrapers; the middle tier shows the Municipal Pier on East 25th Street, where the unemployed were sheltered; the bottom depicts a bank vault with wealthy citizens counting their assets.
INSTALLATION IN A LOT
They call it the ''last lot.'' At 46th Street and Eighth Avenue and measuring 70 feet by 100 feet, it is the only empty slice of real estate left in one of the densest neighborhoods in Manhattan: Times Square.
The founders of the Art Production Fund, Doreen Remen and Yvonne Force Villareal, fixated on the spot when, responding to a request from the Times Square Alliance, they began scouring the area for places to present public art projects. The Shubert Organization, which owns the lot, agreed to donate the site for a year. The Art Production Fund will present a series of projects, each on view there for about three months.
''Desert Rooftops,'' an installation by David Brooks, will kick off the program on Nov. 22. Mr. Brooks is perhaps best known for ''Preserved Forest,'' a huge installation he created last year for ''Greater New York,'' the sprawling survey show of New York artists at MoMA PS1 in Long Island City, Queens. For that work Mr. Brooks displaced a section of a simulated tropical rainforest, which he then ''preserved'' by encasing it in concrete -- a visceral confrontation intended as a comment on today's ecological threats.
He is once again addressing issues of the natural and built landscape. He will create a 5,000-square-foot piece that is an undulating configuration of asphalt-shingled rooftops resembling those on suburban developments, but here they are conjoined to look like a rolling, dune-like landscape. ''It represents the idea of stripping the land that has been overused, overdeveloped and overfarmed,'' Ms. Remen said, ''basically raped of all of its life.''
After the Brooks project ends on Feb. 5, there will be installations by Josephine Meckseper and Kiki Smith.
RESURRECTING MONSTERS
In a past life the artist Mike Kelley played drums along with some other ''nontraditional things,'' as he put it. He was part of Destroy All Monsters, a band he formed with the artist Jim Shaw. Named after a Japanese horror film, it was a sort of anti-rock group that was a precursor to punk.
That was in the 1970s. Mr. Kelley was an art student at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor. The band did more than play music. Its members also produced films and made all sorts of art, including sculpture and photography.
Now, as part of ''Pacific Standard Time: Art in L.A. 1945-1980,'' the celebration of Southern California art that has been going on in galleries and museums for a while now, Prism, a West Hollywood gallery, is presenting ''Return of the Repressed: Destroy All Monsters, 1973-1977,'' a show organized by Mr. Kelley and Dan Nadel, a publisher, that opens on Nov. 19.
''It's a lot of things I did in my undergraduate years,'' Mr. Kelley said in a telephone interview, describing the art in the show. ''There are prints, drawings and photographs which I did between 1973 and 1976.'' The exhibition, on view through Jan. 7, will also feature work by other band members, including Mr. Shaw, the filmmaker Cary Loren and the singer and painter Niagara.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, a sketch of ''Desert Rooftops,'' by David Brooks, the first of several public art installations to be built on the lot on 46th Street and Eighth Avenue, above, during the next year under the sponsorship of the Art Production Fund. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID BROOKS/ART PRODUCTION FUND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); PAINTING (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



497 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Ahead of New Rules, Europe's Banks Go on a Selling Spree

BYLINE: By MARK SCOTT

 BODY:
LONDON - Europe's banking sector is ready for a shake-up as its largest financial institutions try to slim down their operations in response to the sovereign debt crisis.
Banco Santander, Deutsche Bank and others are trying to sell assets and loan portfolios to reduce their exposure to worrisome private and sovereign debt as part of a broad strategy to refocus on their home markets and comply with new regulatory requirements.
It is an extraordinary fire sale. 
Europe's financial sector is expected to sell or write down more than $1.8 trillion in loan assets in the next decade, according to the consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers. That compares with just $97 billion from 2003 to 2010.
''The list of asset sales is the longest I've seen in 10 years,'' said Richard Thompson, a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers in London, who added that the final figure could rise well above $1.8 trillion. ''Banks want to reshape their balance sheets to focus on specific territories or sectors.''
Sales are already under way. Last week, Ireland's nationalized Anglo Irish Bank sold $3.3 billion in commercial real estate loans in the United States to Wells Fargo. In all, the Irish bank wants to offload nearly $10 billion in American loans as part of a government requirement to reduce its assets and trim its operations.
In debt-ridden Spain, Banco Santander and BBVA, the country's largest financial institutions, as well as a number of struggling savings banks are also lining up buyers for their loan portfolios. With home prices dropping 24 percent in the last four years, local banks that aggressively sold low-interest mortgages across the country are looking to reduce their real estate holdings.
With so many assets up for grabs, potential buyers with large reserves of capital are looking at potential bargains. Major private equity firms, including the Blackstone Group, Cerberus Capital Management and Apollo Global Management, are raising funds for distressed assets.
Cash-rich sovereign wealth funds have also been active. Last month, financial companies connected to the Qatar Investment Authority announced plans to acquire banking assets in Turkey and Luxembourg. The deals came after a $686 million investment in August from a fund controlled by the royal family of Qatar as part of the merger of Greece's Alpha Bank and Eurobank.
For many struggling banks, sales cannot come quickly enough. Spain's unemployment is 22.6 percent, the highest in the European Union. And the amount of nonperforming loans held by banks has increased by 36 percent since 2010, according to Citigroup analysts.
''Ireland and Spain have been the center of most of the activity in the last 12 months,'' said Graham Martin, a partner at the consulting firm KPMG in London. ''That's now spreading to other European markets as banks look to reduce their exposure.''
Regulatory pressures are forcing financial institutions to dump risky assets, too. The European Banking Authority announced plans last month to compel banks to increase their core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of their ability to withstand financial shocks, to 9 percent by June 2012.
To meet the new requirements, authorities say Europe's banks will need to raise $146 billion, either by selling assets or raising capital. That includes a combined $41 billion for struggling Greek banks.
New global banking standards, known as the Basel III, are also driving the deleveraging efforts.
Under the plans, which take effect in 2013, banks must meet new restrictions on the amount of money they are allowed to borrow and put aside extra capital reserves mostly from asset sales to offset potential future losses.
''The wave of new regulation will increase scrutiny on how banks operate,'' said Larry Tabb, chief executive of advisory firm TABB Group in New York.
In the short-term, Mr. Thompson of PricewaterhouseCoopers says European banks are focused on reducing their multibillion-dollar loan books of commercial property and residential mortgages. To avoid criticism from politicians and the public for selling assets in their home markets, banks are prioritizing sales in foreign markets as they look to slim down their balance sheets.
Yet some big banks may also be buyers. With so many undercapitalized financial institutions looking to offload loan portfolios, Ralph Silva, director of the London-based financial consulting firm SRN, says solidly funded global banks could use the opportunity for expansion, particularly into emerging markets.
This year, Banco Santander, the largest bank by market capitalization among the 17 countries using the euro, bought the Polish bank Bank Zachodni WBK for $5.6 billion, while London-based HSBC is looking at the Turkish arm of the troubled French-Belgian bank Dexia.
''The major banks know there are good bargains out there,'' Mr. Silva said. ''But as long as the price keeps going down, they'll hold off on buying until we reach the bottom of the market.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (77%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); MERGERS (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (66%); HOME PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: BANCO SANTANDER SA (92%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (91%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); ALPHA BANK AE (62%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%); EUROBANCSHARES INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (57%); IRISH BANK RESOLUTION CORP LTD (IBRC) (55%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (53%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (53%)

TICKER: SANT (LIS) (92%); SANT (BIT) (92%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (92%); SAN (NYSE) (92%); SAN (MCE) (92%); SAN (BMV) (92%); BNC (LSE) (92%); DEUT (JSE) (91%); DBK (FRA) (91%); DBK (BIT) (91%); DBETN (JSE) (91%); DBA (ASX) (91%); DB (NYSE) (91%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); ALPHA (ATH) (62%); ACBD (LSE) (62%); BX (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); APO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (62%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) EUROPE (95%); SPAIN (93%); IRELAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); TURKEY (79%); GREECE (73%); LUXEMBOURG (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



498 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: As Oil Production Rises, Libya Expects to Hit Prewar Levels by June

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
TRIPOLI, Libya -- The acting Libyan oil minister, Ali Tarhouni, said on Thursday that so much progress was being made in resuscitating the country's oil fields that production would return to more than 40 percent of its prewar level by the end of the year and completely recuperate by June. 
''Things are going very well,'' he told reporters at a news conference. ''The oil sector is ahead of our expectations and everyone's expectations. We will surpass 700,000 barrels a day by the end of this year.''
Officials say Libya's production is 500,000 barrels a day.
Before fighting erupted last winter, Libya produced 1.6 million barrels a day and exported 1.3 million barrels, mostly to Europe. But during the war, the rebels were able to export only a trickle with the help of the gulf nation of Qatar as they tried to gain badly needed cash.
Libyan oil is particularly important for world markets because of its high quality. It needs relatively little refining and is preferred in many European and Asian markets. Since Libyan oil came off line, world benchmark oil prices have been highly volatile despite slumping demand in the United States and Europe.
The return of Libyan oil has allowed other members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries to curtail production and strengthen prices in recent weeks.
Fighting caused damage to some of the country's refineries, and several vital pipelines were cut by the rebels. Several major fields were shut down abruptly, potentially causing damage. International oil and oil service companies removed skilled personnel from the country and hundreds of blue-collar foreign workers from Turkey and Egypt fled as well. But Libyan workers are returning to the fields and restarting operations. Many foreign oil experts have expressed surprise at how well the Libyans have done by themselves, but they say that Libyan officials may be overly optimistic that the country can recover all its production next year.
Some say it could take two years or more, and that will depend on a peaceful transition.
''The oil is coming on a lot faster than expected,'' said Francis Osborne, head of energy economics for the consulting firm KBC. But he added, ''There is a labor problem. Libyan oil workers are cautious about going back to certain fields, and foreign workers are cautious or requesting increased salaries. There is also the question of security and protection.''
Jon Pepper, a Hess vice president, said, ''We're not sending anyone back yet. We want to see how things settle out. We're not up and running and it will take time before we are.''
Since the death of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi last month, violence in the country has been reduced greatly, especially in the cities and most of the countryside. But deep in the desert, where many of Libya's largest oil fields are, there are reports of roaming bands of armed people.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ali Tarhouni 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (91%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); EUROPE (92%); EGYPT (79%); GULF STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); QATAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



499 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: New Jobless Claims Decline To Lowest Level Since April

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
New claims for jobless benefits in the United States fell last week to their lowest level since early April and the country's trade deficit unexpectedly shrank in September, pointing to a slight improvement in the sluggish economy. 
The Labor Department said on Thursday that initial claims for state unemployment benefits fell for the second consecutive week, dropping 10,000 to a seasonally adjusted 390,000.
That is still well above levels from before the 2007-9 recession, but economists say a level below 400,000 could prompt some acceleration in hiring.
''Clearly, the labor market is improving, but at a very slow pace,'' said Omer Esiner, chief market strategist at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange in Washington.
In a separate report, the Commerce Department said that the country's trade deficit shrank 4 percent, to $43.1 billion, in September.
The gap was the narrowest since December because of record-high exports, and it suggested that the United States economy closed the third quarter a little stronger than previously thought.
The government could raise its estimate for third-quarter growth to a 2.8 percent annual rate from 2.5 percent, said Paul Dales, an economist at Capital Economics in Toronto.
Still, economists say the economy must grow much faster to put a big dent in the jobless rate, which has been stuck at or above 9 percent for most of the last two years.
The data ''are not strong enough to make it clear that we are in a solid recovery but they are not weak enough to show that we are falling into a recession,'' said Rick Meckler, president of the investment firm LibertyView Capital Management in New York.
While companies are cutting back on layoffs, they are not increasing hiring much. Nonfarm payrolls rose a tepid 80,000 last month, the government said last week.
The trade report also showed a narrowing of the politically sensitive deficit with China. China has allowed its currency to appreciate 4.3 percent over the last year as it tries to rebalance its economy so that it depends more on domestic consumption and less on exports.
The United States data showed Chinese imports fell 2.5 percent in September. A report in Beijing showed the country's imports surged in October as exports grew at their slowest rate in months.
Still, the United States and other countries are pressing China to let the renminbi strengthen more, and many of the Republican candidates campaigning for the White House have vowed to put more pressure on China.
A separate report showing a 0.6 percent fall in import prices during October also painted a bright spot for the economy.
Americans' wages have not kept up with high inflation in recent months, making it harder for consumers to step up spending and power the economy. Many analysts, however, think inflation may have peaked.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg)
 Balance of Trade: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); RECESSION (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSUMPTION (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); STATISTICS (73%); IMPORT PRICES (60%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



500 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Settlement: Many Are Left Behind

BYLINE: By AARON GLANTZ. 
aglantz@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Sometime next month, Raul Pena will give up his East Oakland home. Mr. Pena, a 40-year-old dishwasher, used a subprime loan from Countrywide Financial to buy his two-bedroom house for $359,000 in 2005. He is in the process of selling it in a short sale for just $100,000. 
Mr. Pena is the kind of borrower that an $8.7 billion national settlement with Countrywide in 2008 was intended to help.
Announcing the settlement that October, Jerry Brown, then the California attorney general, called it ''the biggest loan modification in American history.'' He said it would provide $3.4 billion in relief to Countrywide borrowers in California who, like Mr. Pena, were sold creative financial products that ended up driving them into debt. But no loan-modification help ever reached Mr. Pena or many other troubled homeowners like him, a situation consumer advocates and legal experts said showed that the settlement had failed to deliver.
''There is a significant gap between the relief promised to homeowners and what was actually delivered to them. And the mechanisms needed to hold the bank accountable just weren't there,'' said Shum Preston, a spokesman for Kamala Harris, California's current attorney general.
On Sept. 30, Ms. Harris pulled out of negotiations for a new, even larger national settlement with the nation's largest mortgage servicers, citing concerns that that deal would also fail to help homeowners adequately.
Under the terms of the Countrywide settlement, borrowers with subprime loan products were to be eligible for reductions in principal, lower interest rates and conversion from adjustable to fixed-rate mortgages.
This year, Countrywide's parent company, Bank of America, reported that the settlement had resulted in $5.6 billion in loan modifications, including $2.1 billion in savings for 36,000 California homeowners. ''If more borrowers face financial hardship, the bank will provide assistance,'' said Jumana Bauwens, a Bank of America spokeswoman.
But legal experts said the numbers were misleading. Tim Iglesias, a University of San Francisco property-law professor, said the settlement allowed the bank to count modifications completed under federal programs that it would arguably have done anyway.
Data from ForeclosureRadar.com shows that the monthly count of California homes foreclosed on by Bank of America has nearly tripled since the settlement was reached, from 931 in October 2008 to an average 2,653 per month in 2011.
On Aug. 30, Nevada, where the 2008 settlement also applies, sued the bank for violating the agreement by failing to provide loan modifications to eligible borrowers and initiating foreclosures while consumers' modification requests were pending. In court papers, lawyers for Bank of America denied the charges.
Mr. Iglesias said Nevada could have difficulty winning its case because the settlement was so weak. ''There is no situation under which they are compelled to offer relief to an individual consumer,'' he said.
Meanwhile, Raul Pena wonders why Bank of America could not cut him a break since it will be losing hundreds of thousands of dollars on his sale anyway.
''They could have given it to me at $100,000, and I'd be able to afford it,'' Mr. Pena said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LAWYERS (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (74%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); PARENT COMPANIES (72%); HISTORY (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



501 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Senate Approves Two Pieces of Jobs Bill as Deficit Panel Struggles on Taxes

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Senate overwhelmingly approved two elements of President Obama's jobs bill on Thursday as members of a Congressional committee on deficit reduction struggled to overcome bitter partisan disputes over how much to raise taxes.
The impasse on deficit reduction -- less than two weeks before the deadline for the committee to complete its work -- caused alarm and anxiety among senators from both parties.
Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts and a member of the committee, said the debt crisis in Europe added urgency to Congressional efforts to reduce the deficit here. 
''Given the opportunity,'' Mr. Kerry said, ''the committee has to send a message about the U.S. financial situation. I personally think it is a very important component, or should be a very important component, of our thinking.''
In the last month, the Senate has rejected three versions of Mr. Obama's jobs bill. But on Thursday it approved a measure with two elements of the White House plan. One would offer tax credits to companies that hire unemployed veterans. The other would repeal a law that requires federal, state and local government agencies to deduct and withhold 3 percent of payments they make to many contractors. The bill goes back to the House, which passed a similar measure last month.
Senator Jon Tester, Democrat of Montana, called it ''the most significant piece of veterans' jobs legislation'' in several years.
Senator Scott P. Brown, Republican of Massachusetts, said the 95-to-0 vote on passage of the bill showed that the two parties could sometimes work together.
But lawmakers saw little evidence of such cooperation in the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, which is supposed to vote on its final recommendations by Nov. 23.
A co-chairman of the committee, Representative Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas, broke his silence on the panel's internal deliberations on Thursday and assailed Democrats as intransigent.
Mr. Hensarling said that Republicans had made ''a major concession'' by proposing tax increases, and he asserted that Democrats had not reciprocated by proposing major cuts in the growth of benefits programs like Medicare and Medicaid.
''What we still haven't seen from the Democrats is a plan that deals with our structural debt crisis that actually solves the problem, and unfortunately we've never seen any reforms that would save and secure our health care programs that weren't attached to a trillion dollars worth of tax increase,'' Mr. Hensarling said. Such a tax increase ''is ultimately going to harm job growth,'' he added.
Democrats rejected the criticism and called on Republicans to accept more tax revenue as part of any agreement.
Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, praised Republicans for moving off their long-held position opposing any tax increases.
''It is significant,'' Mr. Conrad said. ''It is moving in the right direction.'' But, he asserted, Republicans need to accept more tax revenue as part of any deal.
Democrats objected to part of the latest Republican proposal that they said would provide huge tax breaks to the most affluent Americans.
''The Republican plan would provide the largest percentage tax cut for multimillionaires since Calvin Coolidge was in the White House,'' said a Democratic aide close to the negotiations.
Senators from both parties expressed dismay at the possibility that the joint committee would fail, forcing automatic across-the-board cuts in spending.
That would be ''the worst outcome,'' said Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri. ''It really means you couldn't make any choices.''
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, said: ''If the supercommittee fails, there will be an immediate effect on the markets, including the stock market. I would not be surprised if some time shortly thereafter there would be a downgrading of our financial rating. And there could be a kind of grass-roots uprising in the Senate to bring some bipartisan deficit reduction program to the floor right away in December.''
Several Republicans suggested that their position on revenues was more flexible than Republican members of the committee had assumed.
''If the select committee were able to come up with a proposal that did bring in new revenue that was going to be good for the country,'' and if the proposal also included changes in entitlement programs, ''I would support it, I would absolutely support it,'' said Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska.
''We have gotten ourselves into such a fear that if there is one new dollar of tax revenue, somehow or other we are not Republican enough,'' Ms. Murkowski said. ''This is not about Republicans or Democrats or anyone in between. This is about the economic well-being of our country.''
Several Democrats said they were offended by Mr. Hensarling's characterization of the party's position on benefit programs.
''I am for entitlement reform,'' said Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana. ''Go ask Republicans where they are on revenues.''
Senator Michael Bennet, Democrat of Colorado, said, ''There are plenty of Democrats who have said that entitlement reforms need to be part of this equation.''
AARP, the lobby for older Americans, sent letters to all committee members opposing a change that would reduce the annual cost-of-living adjustment for Social Security, by using an alternative measure of inflation.
Democrats and Republicans on the panel have proposed such a change. But AARP said the change would ''take billions of dollars out of the pockets of beneficiaries.'' Benefit reductions would be compounded over time, so that older and poorer retirees would see larger cuts in benefits, the group said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Roy Blunt, dismayed by the debt panel's troubles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US CONGRESSIONAL SUPER COMMITTEE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); EURO CRISIS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); MEDICARE (66%); MEDICAID (66%); HEALTH CARE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JEB HENSARLING (78%); KENT CONRAD (58%); JON TESTER (58%); ROY BLUNT (58%); SCOTT BROWN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



502 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'THE CONQUEST'; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: The Making of the French President

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
The story of ''The Conquest,'' Xavier Durringer's lightly fictionalized examination of President Nicolas Sarkozy's ascent to power in France, may be Shakespearean, as its director insists in the film's production notes. But the movie, which begins with Mr. Sarkozy's election-night victory in May 2007, only intermittently rises above the tone of an arch, sniping drawing-room comedy peopled with mild caricatures.
Flashing back and forth from Mr. Sarkozy's triumphant night to his previous five years of struggle, ''The Conquest'' is too choppy to build much momentum. It is also too cynical to convey the notion that anything important is at stake beyond personal power. But that may be the point. 
If ''The Conquest'' aspires to be a Gallic answer to ''The Queen,'' it more closely resembles a diluted, somewhat less amusing French answer to ''In the Loop.'' From its jaundiced, inside-the-bubble perspective, the political game in France is a circus of competing egomaniacs. Nicola Piovani's cheerfully galumphing soundtrack, which accompanies Mr. Sarkozy's staged public appearances, is stylistically identical to Nina Rota's merry-go-round music for Fellini, for whom Mr. Piovani also composed two scores.
I should add that the spectacle, despite its absurdities, doesn't appear nearly as farcical as the current prelude to the 2012 presidential election in the United States.
The film has two strands that never quite mesh. One involves the marital discord between Mr. Sarkozy and his haughty, impatient wife at the time, Cecilia (Florence Pernel), his longtime principal adviser. Mrs. Sarkozy has grown disgusted with politics, which she compares to reality television, but she agrees to be at her husband's side on election night before scurrying off to join her lover, Richard Attias, a global events producer whom she would later marry. Both Cecilia Sarkozy and Jacques Chirac's wife, Bernadette (Michele Moretti), are portrayed as formidable powers behind the scenes.
In the hands of a screenwriter less cynical than Patrick Rotman, the marital strand of the story might have had a Shakespearean resonance. (Think of ''Macbeth.'') But there is not enough personal history here to lend their relationship much emotional traction.
The other strand portrays the bickering, treachery, wheeling and dealing, and financial scandal mongering within the reigning Union for a Popular Movement. Besides Mr. Sarkozy the principal figures include his predecessor, Jacques Chirac (Bernard Le Coq), and the slick, shifty Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin (Samuel Labarthe) , who shares Mr. Chirac's disdain for an upstart they refer to as ''the midget,'' ''the dwarf'' and a ''chirping magpie.''
The actors bear uncanny physical resemblances to their real-life counterparts. Denis Podalydes, a dead ringer for Mr. Sarkozy, captures his hunched posture, his aggressive sideways glare and his dogged gait as he stomps around flanked by a fawning retinue of advisers and bodyguards. If he has a short temper and wretched table manners, he is neither more nor less likable than anybody else. The film is studiedly neither for nor against Mr. Sarkozy.
Boundlessly arrogant, he boasts: ''I'm a Ferrari. You open the hood with white gloves.'' At a campaign function he bluntly approaches a beautiful blond reporter who signals she is available. Announcing that he's ''a real Don Juan,'' Mr. Sarkozy adds, ''Politicians are sexual powerhouses.''
Mr. Labarthe is also Mr. de Villepin's virtual twin. In one of the wittiest sequences, this suave, vain, silver-haired snake is shown emerging shirtless from the sea ''like Ursula Andress in a James Bond film,'' in the words of one observer, as flashbulbs pop.
The film's biggest drawback is its assumption that audiences outside France will be familiar with the scandals that threaten to consume the players. Issues like immigration, unemployment and suburban riots are mentioned but never seriously addressed. An admirer of Bill Clinton's charisma and media savvy, Mr. Sarkozy demands a rally that has the excitement of a Johnny Hallyday concert.
''The Conquest'' is so narrowly focused that it barely acknowledges the existence of Mr. Sarkozy's chief presidential rival, the Socialist candidate Segolene Royal. That is an unfortunate lapse in a shallow, cynical portrait of an insatiably ambitious politician who has no compunctions about acting like a spoiled, petulant pop star.
THE CONQUEST
Opens on Friday in New York and Los Angeles.
Directed by Xavier Durringer; written by Patrick Rotman and Mr. Durringer; director of photography, Gilles Porte; edited by Catherine Schwartz; music by Nicola Piovani; art direction by Eric Durringer; costumes by Jurgen Doering; produced by Eric and Nicolas Altmayer; released by Music Box Films. In French, with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes. This film is not rated.
WITH: Denis Podalydes (Nicolas Sarkozy), Florence Pernel (Cecilia Sarkozy), Bernard Le Coq (Jacques Chirac), Michele Moretti (Bernadette Chirac), Hippolyte Girardot (Claude Gueant), Samuel Labarthe (Dominique de Villepin) and Mathias Mlekuz (Franck Louvrier).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Denis Podalydes as Nicolas Sarkozy in ''The Conquest,'' directed by Xavier Durringer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILIE DE LA HOSSERAYE/MANDARIN-GAUMONT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); FILM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); WRITERS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); REALITY TELEVISION (62%); SCANDALS (50%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (91%); JACQUES CHIRAC (78%); DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Conquest, The (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



503 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9:30 P.M. (Showtime) THE LAST PLAY AT SHEA (2010) The histories of Shea Stadium, the Mets, Billy Joel (above) and New York City itself across four and a half decades intersect in this documentary from Paul Crowder, which focuses on Mr. Joel's concerts on July 16 and July 18, 2008 -- the last performances given in the stadium, which was torn down the next year. '' 'The Last Play at Shea' has a built-in happy ending that is almost too good to be true,'' Stephen Holden wrote in The New York Times, discussing the sudden appearance of Paul McCartney. ''For the July 18 concert, Mr. McCartney miraculously appeared, having been whisked through customs at Kennedy International Airport after a flight from London that had been allowed to land early. He was sped to the stadium by a motorcade in 11 minutes and driven onto the field in time to perform by Pete Flynn, the dedicated groundskeeper who had driven the Beatles to the same stage 43 years earlier,'' on Aug. 15, 1965. Mr. Holden added: '' 'If it weren't for the Beatles,' Mr. Joel declares, 'I wouldn't do what I do.' Call it perfect symmetry. The final number, 'Let It Be,' rings as a sweet valedictory to all the struggle, the teamwork and the glory captured in this wonderful film.'' 
8 P.M. (Hallmark) AMERICAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION HERO DOG AWARDS Carson Kressley hosts this ceremony honoring dogs who have displayed exemplary devotion, bravery and companionship in the categories of service, therapy, military, law enforcement and arson, hearing, guide, and search and rescue. The cheering section includes Betty White, Peter Fonda, Paula Abdul, Faith Ford and Olivia Munn.
8 P.M. (Disney) GEEK CHARMING (2011) After he retrieves her designer handbag from a mall fountain, a film nerd (Matt Prokop) gets a high school princess (Sarah Hyland) to agree to be the subject of his documentary for a contest -- a move she hopes will help her win the coveted Blossom Queen crown. But soon each realizes there's more to the other than meets the eye.
8 P.M. (ABC) EXTREME MAKEOVER: HOME EDITION In ''Rise and Honor,'' a Veterans Day fund-raising special, Ty Pennington and Jewel, the show's hosts, are joined by Whoopi Goldberg, Robin Williams, George Lopez, J. R. Martinez, Rachael Ray, Sherri Shepherd and the Major League Baseball players Daniel Murphy, Shane Victorino and Clay Buchholz to raise awareness of issues facing veterans and the skills they can bring to the work force and their communities. Contributions will go to the Fisher House Foundation, Hire Heroes USA, the Intrepid Fallen Heroes Fund, the U.S.O., Volunteers of America and Welcome Back Veterans. The program will also look back at episodes of ''Extreme Makeover: Home Edition'' that focused on military families.
8:30 P.M. (13) NEED TO KNOW Maria Hinojosa anchors ''Coming Home: The Enduring Sacrifice,'' a Veterans Day edition that explores unemployment and homelessness among those who fought in Iraq and Afghanistan. The writer and documentarian Sebastian Junger argues that more needs to be done for American troops scarred by their experiences in battle, including the erection of a memorial where they can honor civilian deaths they might have caused. And Marcos Villatoro, a Los Angeles-based writer, profiles a housekeeper whose son is now serving in Afghanistan. ''Her job is like her son's,'' he says. ''They both clean up the mess left by others.''
8:30 P.M. (HBO) 24/7 PACQUIAO/MARQUEZ Manny Pacquiao (53 wins, 3 losses, 2 ties and 38 knockouts) and Juan Manuel Marquez (53 wins, 5 losses, 1 tie and 39 knockouts) break training camp to participate in fight-week activities before their pay-per-view welterweight showdown on Saturday at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas.
9 P.M. (13) BILL T. JONES: A GOOD MAN ''American Masters'' follows Mr. Jones, a 2010 Kennedy Center Honors recipient and a two-time Tony Award winner for best choreography, as he leads the Bill T. Jones/Arnie Zane Dance Company through the creation of ''Fondly Do We Hope ... Fervently Do We Pray,'' an original dance-theater piece, above left, in honor of the bicentennial of Lincoln's birth.
10 P.M. (Fox News Channel) FOX NEWS REPORTING: THE FIGHT FOR IOWA Bret Baier explains how the Iowa caucuses work and looks at how the state has come to hold the position of voting first in the nation. Among those interviewed are the Republican presidential candidates Herman Cain, Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota and the former House Speaker Newt Gingrich; the former governors Sarah Palin of Alaska and Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota; and Iowa residents. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MAZUR/NEWMARKET FILMS AND WREKIN HILL ENTERTAINMENT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); BASEBALL (73%); DOGS (69%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (69%); AIRPORTS (68%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (64%); ARSON (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (84%)

PERSON: PAUL MCCARTNEY (79%); GEORGE LOPEZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



504 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
BRAZIL CAPTURES DRUG LORD
AS HE TRIES TO FLEE POLICE
One of Brazil's most-wanted drug lords has been captured, the authorities in Rio de Janeiro announced. He was arrested while attempting to flee Rocinha, one of this city's largest slums, ahead of a bid by security forces to seize control of the sprawling hillside territory. Page A4
IRAN ISSUES SECOND WARNING 
The supreme leader of Iran added his voice to the country's bellicose reaction to the incriminating United Nations report about the Iranian nuclear program, warning that any potential military attackers would face a ''strong slap and iron fist.''
Page A6
ISRAELI COURT REJECTS APPEAL
Moshe Katsav, the former president of Israel, is expected to enter prison on Dec. 7 to begin a seven-year term for rape after the country's Supreme Court rejected an appeal of his conviction and sentence. Page A8
TALIBAN STRIKES COMPOUND
Taliban insurgents attacked a district government center in eastern Afghanistan while American troops were meeting with local officials inside, wounding three American soldiers and killing three Afghan police officers, according to Afghan and American officials. Page A8
BOMBS FALL ON SUDAN CAMP
Civilians fled as bombs fell on a camp for displaced people in South Sudan, and President Salva Kiir of South Sudan accused the Sudanese government of planning to invade his newly independent nation.
Page A10
LIBERIA LEADER RE-ELECTED
Election officials announced that President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf of Liberia, Africa's only female president, had been re-elected by an overwhelming margin this week in a runoff vote marred by an opposition boycott. Page A10
National
SECRET NIXON TESTIMONY
RELEASED ON JUDGE'S ORDER
Eleven hours of secret grand jury testimony with Richard M. Nixon were released by the Nixon Presidential Library and Museum in response to an order by a judge. It offered a remarkable portrait of Nixon at the twilight of his career: bitter at his disgrace and cynical about politics. Page A15
PART OF JOBS BILL ADVANCES
The Senate overwhelmingly approved two elements of President Obama's jobs bill, but members of a Congressional committee on deficit reduction struggled to overcome bitter partisan disputes over how much to raise taxes. Page A24
CAIN ACCUSER BIDES TIME
The lawyer for one of the women who have accused Herman Cain of sexually harassing them in the late 1990s said that she had been unable to coordinate a joint news conference with three other women who have made similar accusations. Page A20
New York
BROOKLYN OFFICIAL ACQUITTED
OF CORRUPTION CHARGES
William F. Boyland Jr., a Democratic assemblyman from one of Brooklyn's most prominent political families, was acquitted of conspiring to take thousands of dollars in bribes in return for using his influence on behalf of a health care organization that runs hospitals in Queens and Brooklyn. Page A26
Obituaries
MORRIS H. PHILIPSON, 85
He steered the University of Chicago Press as it became the largest and one of the nation's most important publishers of monumental scholarly works, modern fiction and postwar European philosophy. Page A25
Business
GREENER STRATEGY FOR COAL
HITS PATCH OF TURBULENCE
The leading American effort to capture carbon dioxide from coal plants has hit a stumbling block that could imperil the project and set back a promising technology for addressing global warming, people involved in the venture said. Page B1
MARKET CALMS AFTER SLIDE
A day after panicky investors drove Italian bond rates well above 7 percent, reviving fears that the euro zone was heading toward a break-up, the market calmed somewhat after Italy managed to attract strong buying interest for a shorter-term bond offering. Page B1
AUDITS FOR AMERICAN FIRMS
Federal regulators have ordered an audit of every American futures trading firm to verify that customer money is protected, a move that comes after roughly $600 million in client funds went missing from MF Global. Page B6
LIBYA OIL SUPPLY MAY RISE
The acting Libyan oil minister said that so much progress was being made in resuscitating the country's oil fields that production would return to more than 40 percent of its pre-war level by the end of the year and would completely recuperate by next June. Page B8
Sports
MANNY PACQUIAO IS MORE
THAN A BOXER IN LAS VEGAS
Manny Pacquiao represents far more than a talented boxer in Las Vegas. He is also an economic driver. In a city where tourism is driven by events, few are bigger than a championship prizefight. Page B14
FALLOUT FOR ABUSE VICTIMS
A lawyer who is advising some of the alleged sexual abuse victims of Jerry Sandusky, a former football coach at Penn State, said that the university did not consider how the firing of Joe Paterno might affect the victims. Page B19
Weekend
SHERRIE LEVINE SURVEY
AT THE WHITNEY MUSEUM
The Whitney Museum of American Art is offering a survey of paintings, sculptures and photographs by the appropriation artist Sherrie Levine with the provocative subtitle, ''Mayhem.'' Levine lifts images and forms from works by well-known Modernist artists and photographers, using them, her admirers maintain, in ways that undermine conventional notions of originality, artistic mastery and authorship, Roberta Smith writes. Page C25
Op-Ed
Paul Krugman PAGE A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); TESTIMONY (88%); BRIBERY (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); WITNESSES (78%); ARRESTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); JUDGES (74%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (74%); ACQUITTAL (74%); SENTENCING (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); POLITICS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); LAWYERS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); APPEALS (69%); GRAND JURY (68%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (66%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (64%); BOYCOTTS (63%); HEALTH CARE (60%); LIBRARIES (50%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (76%); ELLEN JOHNSON-SIRLEAF (55%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) BRAZIL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SUDAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); LIBERIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



505 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: In Italian Bonds, a Proxy

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.; Louise Story contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
LONDON -- A day after panicky investors drove Italian bond rates well above 7 percent, reviving fears that the euro zone was heading toward a break-up, the market calmed somewhat on Thursday after Italy managed to attract strong buying interest for a shorter-term bond offering. Also helping buoy the market were rumors that the European Central Bank had stepped up its purchase of Italian bonds.
But a calmer market should not be confused with an optimistic one. Investors are still deeply worried about Italy's mounting political and debt financing woes.
Even the seeming rallying point on Thursday -- Italy's ability to sell out an offering of 5 billion euros in one-year bonds -- had a dark side. The interest rate was 6 percent, up from 3.5 percent only a month ago. 
In fact, investors and analysts say, the very depth and sophistication of Italy's 1.9 trillion euro ($2.6 trillion) bond market, the third-largest in the world after the United States and Japan, has made it a proxy of sorts for the euro zone's deeper problems. Those include the possible exit of Greece from the euro and Germany's resistance to assuming a larger financial burden in rescuing weaker economies.
Investors have been dumping Italian bonds that they own, and ramping up their negative bets by selling Italian bond futures as well.
The Italian bond market is the only large market in the euro zone outside of Germany to offer investors the ability to buy or sell futures contracts. That has allowed many investors to use Italian futures to place bearish bets on Italy, and as a proxy for the broader euro zone itself.
''The futures market for Italian bonds has become the main conduit now for all investor angst with regard to the euro zone,'' said Yra Harris, a trader at Praxis Trading on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
In what has become a highly volatile trading environment, investor fears can shift sharply, turning sellers into buyers, especially if it becomes clear that the European Central Bank has started buying bonds. That is why, after Italian 10-year yields touched a dangerously high level of 7.4 percent on Wednesday, word that the bank had started buying the bonds sent yields as low as 6.7 percent on Thursday.
Market jitters were also calmed by indications that Italy was moving closer to appointing a new government with a revamped legislative initiative, making it more likely that the European Central Bank will follow through with additional Italian bond purchases. And further soothing came from the resolution of the Greek political drama, with the appointment of Lucas Papademos, the former vice president of the European Central Bank, as the country's new prime minister.
Still, European officials are keeping the pressure on Italy. At a news conference Thursday, Olli Rehn, the European Union commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, insisted that Italy's meeting its fiscal targets and adopting structural reforms was a ''sine qua non for restoring confidence in the Italian economy.''
At the root of this confidence drain is the substantial size of debt that Italy must raise from local and foreign investors next year alone: about 350 billion euros. That is about the size of Greece's total debt.
Over the years, Italy has become a very efficient debt-raising machine, with more than 50 percent of its financing needs met by local banks and investors.
But a substantial amount still must come from foreign investors, which in the past have largely been major European banks. Now these banks are selling their positions to avoid the prospect of having to book losses from their reduced value. And if they are continuing to participate in new bond auctions, as with Thursday's one-year offering, they are demanding much higher interest rates.
Meanwhile, the negative betting continues. According to officials at Eurex, Europe's main derivatives exchange, the market for Italian bond futures has increased substantially of late, to as much as one billion euros a day. That is more or less the same size as the market for buying and selling Italian bonds directly.
Many people entering into these futures trades are doing it for hedging purposes or to protect their portfolios if Italy defaults.
But as broader worries about Greece are added to the concern that Italy may no longer be able to finance its debt burden, traders have started to sell Italian bond futures directly -- a bet that the euro zone itself might collapse and that Italian bonds will continue to lose value.
Despite all the bad news, those negative bets remain a very risky undertaking. Analysts point to the fact that the European Central Bank still has considerable firepower and can move markets sharply by buying Italian bonds, as it did Thursday. But the purchases have been small compared with the total debt outstanding, and some say they believe the bank should publicly commit to buying far more, or even to back Italy's entire debt.
There is disagreement, however, over whether the bank will be allowed to drastically step up its bond purchases. The central bank's charter requires it to focus on price stability in Europe, not an individual sovereign market's stability.
Some argue that the central bank should not be diverting its view from its main purpose, but others say the purchases are clearly allowed. There is a provision of the governing treaty that allows the central bank to buy or sell market instruments if it furthers the bank's primary mission of maintaining price stability.
James Savage, a fellow at the United States Institute of Peace and author of a book about the creation of the euro zone, said there is no cap on how far the central bank can go under that provision, and he said he could see it allowing the bank to back Italy's bond market, if needed.
''There's no prohibition; there's no level; there's no constraint,'' Mr. Savage said. ''If price stability is your goal, it's really a matter of how you can argue that your policies are leading to that outcome.''
As it purchases government bonds, the central bank has been taking steps to try to remove any possibility of causing inflation through that action. The bank has taken in greater deposits from banks alongside its bond purchases, though it is not clear the bank needs to do that to justify further purchases.
If European officials concluded that the central bank could not substantially increase its role in Italy without a change in its mission, that would require approval from each member of the European Union, undoubtedly a slow and possibly politically unfeasible process.
Economists also emphasize that, if the amount of interest Italy pays on its debt is excluded, the country is running not a deficit but a surplus, one that is expected to be 2.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2012, the highest of any major developed economy.
But the positive spin goes only so far.
In the view of Peter Bofinger, a German economist who advises the finance ministry in Berlin, the longer Germany insists on segregating the debts and deficits of individual euro area countries as opposed to adding them all together across the euro zone, the sooner such distinctions will become meaningless. ''When Italian interest rates go above 7 percent, that turns a liquidity crisis into a solvency crisis,'' he said. In other words, if rates continue to increase, Italy might have to exit the debt markets as Greece and Ireland did, and resort to a bailout.
''Europe either stands united and survives,'' he said, ''or stays divided and falls.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Olli Rehn of the European Union called structural changes a ''sine qua non for restoring confidence in the Italian economy.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGES GOBET/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 Italians watched screens displaying index and share prices outside a bank in Milan on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GIUSEPPE CACACE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EURO (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); FUTURES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); DEBT FINANCING (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); APPOINTMENTS (68%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (85%); CME GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (52%) EUROPE (99%); ITALY (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); GERMANY (92%); GREECE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



506 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1793 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Banks Lost a Refuge In Debt Crisis

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN and SUSANNE CRAIG; Liz Alderman reported from Paris and Susanne Craig from New York.

 BODY:
PARIS -- As the bets that European banks made on United States mortgage investments went bust a few years ago, bankers piled into what they saw as a safe refuge: bonds issued by countries in Europe's seemingly ironclad monetary union.
Now, the political and financial crisis engulfing the Continent has turned much of that European sovereign debt into the latest distressed asset, sending tremors through global financial markets not seen since the demise of the investment bank Lehman Brothers more than three years ago.
This week, shortly after European leaders formally conceded that Greece could not pay its debts and forced banks to accept losses, the shock waves reached Italy, the third-largest economy in the euro zone after France and Germany. And despite frantic efforts by politicians to contain the damage, market analysts said that France, one of the strongest countries in the euro zone, may soon feel the impact.
''When people started buying more European sovereign debt, there was not a cloud in the sky,'' said Yannis Stournaras, director of the Foundation for Economic and Industrial Research, based in Athens. Now, he said, ''This crisis is going to last because the perceptions of risk have changed dramatically.'' 
European banks face tens and possibly hundreds of billions of dollars in losses on loans to nations that use the euro. Worried about even greater losses if the crisis worsens, the banks have been scrambling to reduce their holdings of an investment that, like triple-A-rated subprime mortgage bonds, was once thought to be bulletproof.
The French bank Societe Generale, for instance, this week marked down 333 million euros of its Greek sovereign debt holdings and in October slashed its exposure to that country to 575 million euros, from 2.4 billion euros at the beginning of 2011. Another French bank, BNP Paribas, has cut its holdings of Italian government debt 40 percent since July, to 12.2 billion euros.
How European sovereign debt became the new subprime is a story with many culprits, including governments that borrowed beyond their means, regulators who permitted banks to treat the bonds as risk-free and investors who for too long did not make much of a distinction between the bonds of troubled economies like Greece and Italy and those issued by the rock-solid Germany.
Banks had further incentive to overlook the perils of individual euro zone countries because of the fees they earned for underwriting sovereign debt sold to other investors. Since 2005, several dozen banks in Europe and the United States have earned $1.1 billion in fees from selling bonds for European governments, according to Thomson Reuters and Freeman Consulting Services.
Like other investors, banks clung for a long time to the seemingly inviolable belief that all the countries using the euro would make good on their debts. For years, Greek and Italian bonds did not pay much more than German ones, but banks were always hungry to chase even a fraction of additional profit. For much of the last decade, they bought the higher-yield bonds, ignoring the growing political and fiscal problems of those countries as well as other peripheral euro zone nations like Ireland, Spain and Portugal.
Regulators bear much of the responsibility. Before 1999, when Europe forged its monetary union, regulators permitted banks to treat as risk-free the debt of any country that belonged to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a club of developed nations that includes the United States and most of Europe.
''There was encouragement from European authorities for banks to load up on more debt, because it was seen as safe,'' said Nicolas Veron, a senior fellow at Bruegel, a research firm in Brussels. ''In hindsight, it was unwise risk management.''
Some regulators realized that allowing banks to set aside no capital for sovereign defaults could be a problem and moved to address it in a 2006 accord known as Basel 2. They mandated that big, complex banks use their own models to determine if individual countries were at risk and hold some capital against them. But the European Union never enforced the stiffer regime. And amid the subprime mortgage crisis, Europe's regulators added to the problem by demanding that banks hold more safe assets, much of it sovereign debt.
As a result, banks were not discouraged from placing their most liquid assets ''into the worst possible government debt,'' Achim Kassow, a former Commerzbank board member, wrote in a study published by the European Parliament.
Now, Societe Generale, Commerzbank and other banks cannot get rid of the shaky debt fast enough. In the last several months, they have booked billions of euros in losses from unloading it, although their exposure remains substantial. Including the effect of hedges, European banks had a net exposure of about $120 billion to Greek government borrowings and private debt at the end of June, according to the Bank for International Settlements. Even more worrisome, analysts say, is the banks' exposure of $643 billion to Spain and $837 billion to Italy.
Banks in the United States are also caught in the crossfire. For Italy alone, they had $47 billion in net exposure to government borrowings and private debt at the end of June, the B.I.S. data show.
Goldman Sachs has $700 million in exposure to Italy, according to a regulatory filing released this week, and could feel the fallout if the bonds were marked down.
The loss from a write-down similar to that on the Greek debt -- 50 cents on the dollar -- would erase 10 percent of the $3.43 billion in profit Goldman earned in the first nine months of the year.
Regulators are requiring European banks to raise 106 billion euros in new capital by next summer to protect themselves against further losses.
Banks insist the risks are manageable. But the big fear is that they do not have enough capital to cover potential losses from the euro zone. That kind of crisis of confidence drove MF Global, the large New York brokerage firm, into bankruptcy last week after its $6.3 billion bet on European debt alarmed investors.
While the markets are now being brutally efficient in telegraphing the differing debt risks among European countries, they failed in that function for a long time, just as they failed to reflect the risks of subprime mortgage loans as a real estate bubble formed in the United States.
For most of the last decade, bond yields among Germany, Greece, Portugal, Ireland, Italy and Spain traveled in a tight pack. That meant investors buying and selling those bonds acted as if the countries were almost equally safe simply because they were members of the euro zone, despite shaky finances in Greece, real estate bubbles in Ireland and Spain and high debt in Italy.
The phenomenon rang alarm bells as far back as 2005, when banks, national treasuries and the European Commission held intense internal debates on why the spreads between Germany and other countries did not seem to reflect the differing risks, said a senior Brussels official involved with bank regulation.
When the subprime crisis started to buffet Wall Street in 2007, banks sought shelter by turning even more to European sovereign debt, especially countries with the best returns. The B.I.S. data show that bank lending to the governments of Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain, largely through bond purchases, rose faster than usual, by 24.2 percent, to $827 billion, between the second quarter of 2007 and the third quarter of 2009, when the crisis in Greece first started to taint European sovereign debt.
Banks across the world joined in this lending binge as they chased higher yields. Emblematic of those that took the plunge was Komercni Bank, a large bank in the Czech Republic that is majority-owned by Societe Generale.
As the subprime crisis in America began mounting, Komercni veered into the seemingly safe Greek government bonds. The bank's entire board, more than half of whom were long-time veterans of Societe Generale, signed off on Greek debt purchases from 2006 through 2008. Now the bank is expected to write down an additional 2 billion koruna, or $111 million, on its Greek debt this year, after taking a 1.66 billion koruna hit in the second quarter. That is a manageable amount, but the bank would have been barely affected if it had bought the safer German bonds.
A spokesman for Societe Generale refused requests for interviews with officials and declined to comment.
As the subprime crisis peaked on Wall Street, banks sharply increased their underwriting of European sovereign debt. In 2007, the world's big banks made $113.9 million in underwriting fees; by 2009, that number had more than doubled to $273 million.
Societe Generale went from issuing no Greek debt in 2005 to being the world's eighth-largest underwriter just a year later. The bank has made $61.5 million in fees from underwriting debt for euro zone countries since 2005, according to Thomson Reuters. Deutsche Bank, the top underwriter of euro zone debt in that period, took in $87 million in fees.
Banks in the United States also profited. Since 2005, Goldman Sachs has earned $44.5 million in fees underwriting euro zone debt, and Morgan Stanley has earned $47.4 million, according to Thomson Reuters.
Their special relationship with governments sometimes also presented a unique dilemma: it gave banks little incentive to publicize red flags even if they were suspicious about sovereign debt.
In 2005, Marc Flandreau was a senior adviser in Paris at Lehman Brothers, one of several banks selling sovereign bonds for the French government. He suddenly wondered whether France's finances were solid enough to merit the low interest rates at which it and the other members of the euro zone were selling their bonds. He wrote a memo to the French Treasury expressing his concerns.
''They went totally ballistic,'' Mr. Flandreau recalled. ''They said, 'You guys should shut up, you're selling our stuff.' ''
Benoit Coeure, an official at France's debt-issuing agency at the time, insisted that the policy was not to discourage the banks from analysis. But ''if it had a negative tone on French policies,'' he said bluntly, ''my role was to object to it.''
Today, with Europe's sovereign debt crisis seemingly spinning out of control, regulators are pressing governments and banks to divulge as much risk as they can and are asking banks to set aside billions of euros to protect against possible losses.
''Sovereign debt has lost its apparent risk-free status,'' Herve Hannoun, deputy director general of the Bank for International Settlements, said in a recent speech in which he called for an end to ''the fiction.''
To restore confidence, he concluded, the world needs to move ''from denial to recognition.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Komercni Bank in the Czech Republic bought Greek government bonds when the subprime mortgage crisis intensified. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VLADIMIR WEISS/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 The headquarters of Deutsche Bank, Commerzbank and UBS Germany in Frankfurt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RALPH ORLOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES) (B4) CHART: The Dangers of Contagion: As the European financial crisis has spread, it has strained banking institutions in Europe and around the world that hold large amounts of government and private debt. With Italy teetering, France's banks, which are among the largest holders of Italian debt, are now under pressure. (Source: Bank for International Settlements) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); BONDS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); BOND ISSUES (89%); EURO (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%)

COMPANY: SOCIETE GENERALE SA (91%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BNP PARIBAS SA (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (59%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (91%); GLE (BIT) (91%); BK (NYSE) (85%); BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (74%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (97%); GERMANY (94%); ITALY (94%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GREECE (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



507 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Thanksgiving As Day to Shop Meets Rejection

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
For the first time in years, Michelle Nyberg probably will not be standing in line when stores open for their Black Friday sales.
She still loves a good deal -- last year she spent a couple of thousand dollars on markdowns that day, the Friday after Thanksgiving -- but Ms. Nyberg says that she does not want retailers to ruin the holiday for her or their own employees.
Ms. Nyberg is drawing the line now that major chains like Target, Macy's, Best Buy and Kohl's say they will open for the first time at midnight on Thanksgiving, and Wal-Mart will go even further, with a 10 p.m. Thanksgiving start for deals on some merchandise. 
Retailers, eager to be the first to draw customers on one of the biggest shopping days of the year, are pulling the equivalent of the Republican primary shuffle by opening earlier and earlier than competitors.
Last year, a few stores, including Toys ''R'' Us, pushed into Thanksgiving.
But judging from the negative reaction among dedicated Friday after Thanksgiving shoppers on blogs, Twitter and Facebook, the wave of midnight openings this year has crossed a line.
Part of the objection is inconvenience. To be at or near the front of the line, shoppers say they will now have to leave home hours earlier -- in the middle of the turkey dinner for some. But the wider objections reflect sentiments like those of the Occupy Wall Street movement, including a growing attention to the rights of workers and a wariness of decisions by big business.
Either way, many in the shop-till-you-drop crowd have had enough with Black Friday creep.
''I just don't think that's good business, in a sense, to make your employees come in on one of the biggest holidays of the year and cut their family time short,'' said Ms. Nyberg, 31, a saleswoman in Villa Rica, Ga., for a molecular biology company. ''With the economy the way it is, no one's going to say, 'I'm not going to do that, I'm going to quit or get fired over it.' ''
One retail executive sounded sad about the decision to open earlier. Brian Dunn, the chief executive of Best Buy, said that the midnight opening ''became an operating imperative for us'' after competitors moved their openings back. ''I feel terrible,'' he said.
A handful of retailers are holding out, like J. C. Penney, which will open at its usual 4 a.m. on Friday. ''We wanted to give our associates Thanksgiving Day to spend with their families,'' said Bill Gentner, senior vice president for marketing.
Still, some of the big retailers making the switch said that the response from workers and customers had been positive.
''There are many associates who would prefer to work this time as they appreciate the flexibility it affords their schedules for the holiday weekend,'' Holly Thomas, a Macy's spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mail. A Target spokesman, Antoine LaFromboise, said that employees will get holiday pay for Thanksgiving work, and ''we've heard from our guests that they are excited.''
But even with increased pay, some retail workers said in interviews that the holiday hours were a raw deal.
Anthony Hardwick, 29, who works at a Target store in Omaha, said he would have to leave Thanksgiving dinner with his fiancee's family so he could sleep before starting a shift around 11 p.m. on Thanksgiving, followed on Friday by a shift at his other job, at OfficeMax.
Mr. Hardwick says he is glad to have a job, and does not mind the early hours on Friday, but ''cutting into our holidays is just a step too far.''
He added, ''Even though it's a desperate time doesn't mean that we should trade all the ground that our fathers and our grandfathers, everyone that came before us, fought really hard for.''
He has created an online petition urging Target to open at 5 a.m. Friday instead, which had attracted a handful of signatures as of Thursday.
The concern among customers about retail workers recalls an earlier era, when consumer advocates encouraged people to consider the impact of their shopping on sales clerks, said Lawrence B. Glickman, the chairman of the history department at the University of South Carolina.
In the late 19th century, as labor organizers pushed for eight-hour days and holidays off, consumer advocates told shoppers to ''watch out for their complicity in the exploitation of workers through shopping'' he said. That sentiment faded after the 1930s, he said, as consumer advocacy focused more on protecting shoppers.
For shoppers themselves -- and the stores hoping to profit from them -- the rush to midnight could have unintended consequences.
Last year, for instance, an adept shopper could be in the Toys ''R'' Us line for its 10 p.m. opening Thanksgiving Day, then line up at Wal-Mart to get a wrist band at 2 a.m. that assured a place in line for its sales starting at 5. In between, the shopper could swing by Kohl's at 3, and Target or Macy's at 4, and perhaps finish with Best Buy after its 5 a.m. opening.
''This year, people are going to have to pick and choose what store they're going to leave behind,'' said Jennifer Carr, 30, a homemaker in Jonesboro, Ga. She regularly hits the Friday sales, but says she is reconsidering that this year.
Wal-Mart said in a statement that ''customers told us they would rather stay up late to shop than get up early.'' But like Ms. Carr, many dedicated Black Friday shoppers say they are rethinking shopping on that day altogether.
Jill Paffrath usually attacks the Friday sales at Target like a ninja. After Thanksgiving lunch, she, her four sisters and two sisters-in-law study the Target ads and make a list of presents they want to buy. After dinner and card games, they drive to the Target in southeast Lincoln, Neb., four hours before it opens, ask a relative who is a police officer to drop off coffee, and bring a DVD player so they can watch ''Christmas Vacation'' every year.
As much as she loves that ritual, Ms. Paffrath said, she may now skip it.
''Where can it go from here?'' she said. ''We really don't want to wait in line and miss Thanksgiving.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jill Paffrath, with relatives at a Target store in Lincoln, Neb., said she may forgo bargain-hunting on Thanksgiving this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN LEHMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Shoppers entered a Target store in Spokane Valley, Wash., as it opened at 4 a.m. on the Friday after Thanksgiving last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSE TINSLEY/THE SPOKESMAN-REVIEW, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THANKSGIVING (95%); RETAILERS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (68%); FAMILY (67%); BIOCHEMISTRY (67%); SOCIAL MEDIA (66%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (53%); BIOLOGY (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LINCOLN, NE, USA (74%); SPOKANE, WA, USA (59%) NEBRASKA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



508 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Legends Of The Fail

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
This is the way the euro ends -- not with a bang but with bunga bunga. Not long ago, European leaders were insisting that Greece could and should stay on the euro while paying its debts in full. Now, with Italy falling off a cliff, it's hard to see how the euro can survive at all.
But what's the meaning of the eurodebacle? As always happens when disaster strikes, there's a rush by ideologues to claim that the disaster vindicates their views. So it's time to start debunking. 
First things first: The attempt to create a common European currency was one of those ideas that cut across the usual ideological lines. It was cheered on by American right-wingers, who saw it as the next best thing to a revived gold standard, and by Britain's left, which saw it as a big step toward a social-democratic Europe. But it was opposed by British conservatives, who also saw it as a step toward a social-democratic Europe. And it was questioned by American liberals, who worried -- rightly, I'd say (but then I would, wouldn't I?) -- about what would happen if countries couldn't use monetary and fiscal policy to fight recessions.
So now that the euro project is on the rocks, what lessons should we draw?
I've been hearing two claims, both false: that Europe's woes reflect the failure of welfare states in general, and that Europe's crisis makes the case for immediate fiscal austerity in the United States.
The assertion that Europe's crisis proves that the welfare state doesn't work comes from many Republicans. For example, Mitt Romney has accused President Obama of taking his inspiration from European ''socialist democrats'' and asserted that ''Europe isn't working in Europe.'' The idea, presumably, is that the crisis countries are in trouble because they're groaning under the burden of high government spending. But the facts say otherwise.
It's true that all European countries have more generous social benefits -- including universal health care -- and higher government spending than America does. But the nations now in crisis don't have bigger welfare states than the nations doing well -- if anything, the correlation runs the other way. Sweden, with its famously high benefits, is a star performer, one of the few countries whose G.D.P. is now higher than it was before the crisis. Meanwhile, before the crisis, ''social expenditure'' -- spending on welfare-state programs -- was lower, as a percentage of national income, in all of the nations now in trouble than in Germany, let alone Sweden.
Oh, and Canada, which has universal health care and much more generous aid to the poor than the United States, has weathered the crisis better than we have.
The euro crisis, then, says nothing about the sustainability of the welfare state. But does it make the case for belt-tightening in a depressed economy?
You hear that claim all the time. America, we're told, had better slash spending right away or we'll end up like Greece or Italy. Again, however, the facts tell a different story.
First, if you look around the world you see that the big determining factor for interest rates isn't the level of government debt but whether a government borrows in its own currency. Japan is much more deeply in debt than Italy, but the interest rate on long-term Japanese bonds is only about 1 percent to Italy's 7 percent. Britain's fiscal prospects look worse than Spain's, but Britain can borrow at just a bit over 2 percent, while Spain is paying almost 6 percent.
What has happened, it turns out, is that by going on the euro, Spain and Italy in effect reduced themselves to the status of third-world countries that have to borrow in someone else's currency, with all the loss of flexibility that implies. In particular, since euro-area countries can't print money even in an emergency, they're subject to funding disruptions in a way that nations that kept their own currencies aren't -- and the result is what you see right now. America, which borrows in dollars, doesn't have that problem.
The other thing you need to know is that in the face of the current crisis, austerity has been a failure everywhere it has been tried: no country with significant debts has managed to slash its way back into the good graces of the financial markets. For example, Ireland is the good boy of Europe, having responded to its debt problems with savage austerity that has driven its unemployment rate to 14 percent. Yet the interest rate on Irish bonds is still above 8 percent -- worse than Italy.
The moral of the story, then, is to beware of ideologues who are trying to hijack the European crisis on behalf of their agendas. If we listen to those ideologues, all we'll end up doing is making our own problems -- which are different from Europe's, but arguably just as severe -- even worse.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); EURO (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); CURRENCIES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); MONETARY POLICY (51%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (71%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); GREECE (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



509 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Review Expected to Delay Oil Pipeline Past the Election

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER and DAN FROSCH; John M. Broder reported from Washington and Dan Frosch from Denver; Ian Austen contributed reporting from Ottawa.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration, under sharp pressure from officials in Nebraska and restive environmental activists, announced Thursday that it would review the route of the disputed Keystone XLoil pipeline, effectively delaying any decision about its fate until after the 2012 election.
The State Department said in a statement that it was ordering a review of alternate routes to avoid the environmentally sensitive Sand Hills region of Nebraska, which would have been put at risk by a rupture of the 1,700-mile pipeline carrying a heavy form of crude extracted from oil sands formations in Alberta to refineries in Oklahoma and the Gulf Coast.
The move is the latest in a series of administration decisions pushing back thorny environmental matters beyond next November's presidential election to try to avoid the heat from opposing interests -- business lobbies or environmental and health advocates -- and to find a political middle ground. President Obamadelayed a review of the nation's smog standard until 2013, pushed back offshore oil lease sales in the Arctic until at least 2015 and blocked new regulations for coal ash from power plants. 
The proposed project by a Canadian pipeline company, TransCanada, similarly put the president in a political vise, squeezed between the demand for a secure source of oil and the thousands of jobs the project will bring, and the loud agitation of environmental advocates who threatened to withhold electoral support next year if he approved it.
Mr. Obama said in an interview with an Omaha television station last week that he would make the ultimate decision about the pipeline, but sought to portray Thursday's announcement as solely a State Department matter and not the result of political calculation.
''I support the State Department's announcement today regarding the need to seek additional information about the Keystone XL pipeline proposal,'' the president said in a statement. ''Because this permit decision could affect the health and safety of the American people as well as the environment, and because a number of concerns have been raised through a public process, we should take the time to ensure that all questions are properly addressed and all the potential impacts are properly understood.''
He said he remained committed to a politically balanced diet of increased domestic oil and gas production combined with incentives for the development of carbon-free alternatives.
While environmental groups welcomed their temporary victory on the pipeline project, some expressed skepticism about the president's motives. Glenn Hurowitz, an environmental activist and senior fellow at the Center for International Policy, said the delay could leave the final decision in the hands of Mr. Obama's Republican successor.
''This decision just puts off a green light for the tar sands by a year,'' Mr. Hurowitz said in an e-mailed statement. ''That's why I'm a little dismayed at suggestions that this kick-the-can decision means environmentalists will enthusiastically back President Obama in 2012. Is the price of an environmentalist's vote a year's delay on environmental catastrophe? Excuse me, no.''
Oil industry officials, some unions and the Canadian government said they were disappointed because the action delays what they call the economic benefits of the $7 billion project.
Jack N. Gerard, president of the American Petroleum Institute, said of the president's decision, ''This is all about politics and keeping a radical constituency, opposed to any and all oil and gas development, in the president's camp in 2012. Whether it will help the president retain his job is unclear but it will cost thousands of shovel-ready opportunities for American workers.''
Andrew MacDougall, a spokesman for Stephen Harper, the Canadian prime minister, said, ''While we are disappointed with the delay, we remain hopeful the project will be decided on its merits and eventually approved.''
TransCanada said that it would work with the State Department to find a new route, but warned that delay could kill the project, and with it tens of thousands of construction and related jobs and billions of dollars in tax revenues.
''If Keystone XL dies,'' said Russell K. Girling, the company's chief executive, ''Americans will still wake up the next morning and continue to import 10 million barrels of oil from repressive nations without the benefit of thousands of jobs and long-term energy security.''
The Sand Hills region has a high concentration of wetlands, a sensitive ecosystem and extensive areas of very shallow groundwater that could be endangered by an oil spill. The State Department, which is responsible for approving transboundary pipelines, said that it expected that the review could be completed early in 2013.
Public officials and citizens in Nebraska have been vocal about the proposed pipeline route, not only because of fears about the Sand Hills region but because it will cross the Ogallala Aquifer, a critical source of drinking water for the Great Plains. Gov. Dave Heineman of Nebraska, a Republican, has been pushing for the pipeline to be rerouted and recently called a special legislative session to focus on Keystone XL.
''I am pleased that Nebraskans have been heard,'' Mr. Heineman said in a telephone interview. ''We've tried to make it very clear that we support the pipeline but oppose the route over the Ogallala Aquifer,'' Mr. Heineman said, adding he was not expecting the State Department's decision. ''I hope we can find a common-sense solution, change the route and begin construction of the pipeline.''
The pipeline's opponents in Nebraska hailed the decision as a pivotal victory, at least for now.
''This is a game changer for our state,'' said Jane Kleeb, director of Bold Nebraska, a citizens' advocacy group that has been leading efforts to block the pipeline. ''We've been fighting this every day and night for almost two years.''
Kerri-Ann Jones in the State Department's Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs said the agency's decision to look for alternative routes was sparked by the significant outcry from Nebraska residents and officials.
''What we're hearing from the public and from comments across the nation is the concerns about it going through this fragile landscape,'' she said of the proposed pipeline. ''We've heard this loud and clear.''
Ms. Jones said that the previous environmental review of Keystone XL had not considered routes around the Sand Hills region in Nebraska, but rather routes that circumvented the state completely. New alternative routes for Keystone XL would still pass through Nebraska, but would seek to avoid or minimize any effect on the Sand Hills, she said.
The State Department's inspector general announced on Monday that he was looking into charges of a conflict of interest and improper political influence in the preparation of the project's environmental impact statement. Some have faulted the department for assigning the study to a company with financial ties to TransCanada.
Opponents of the project have organized two large protests outside the White House, including one on Sunday in which several thousand protesters encircled the mansion demanding that the president kill the pipeline. Earlier this year more than a thousand protesters were arrested in large demonstrations across from the White House.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Russell K. Girling is TransCanada's chief executive. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD KOROL/REUTERS) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL SANDS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%); AIR QUALITY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); SMOG (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (71%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (70%); OIL & GAS LEASES (70%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (67%); POWER PLANTS (66%); NUTRITION (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (78%) NEBRASKA, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (72%); ARCTIC (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



510 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Can Italy Put Berlusconi Behind It?

BYLINE: By MAURIZIO VIROLI. 
Maurizio Viroli, a professor of political theory at Princeton and the University of Italian Switzerland, in Lugano, is the author of ''The Liberty of Servants: Berlusconi's Italy.''

 BODY:
Princeton, N.J.
SILVIO BERLUSCONI's government may not be long for this world, but the prime minister is far from losing his grip on Italy.
The political crisis there is to a large degree the depressing story of a country where a majority of its political class has forgotten that to be a representative in a democratic republic means to serve the common good, not to serve one man. Even as it faces down a mounting economic crisis, Italy has a long way to go before it can be considered a reliably democratic country once again.
In the aftermath of a budget vote on Tuesday that made clear he no longer had a majority behind him, Mr. Berlusconi declared that he would resign as soon as Parliament passed a slate of economic reforms demanded by the European Union. That does not mean, however, that Mr. Berlusconi won't retain a considerable part of his power and continue to affect Italian political life. 
After the unity government under Mario Monti, a former European commissioner, arranges for new elections, Mr. Berlusconi could maneuver behind the scenes to place one of his most loyal servants, Angelino Alfano, the secretary of Mr. Berlusconi's party and the Dmitri A. Medvedev to his Vladimir V. Putin, as the next prime minister.
It's a realistic possibility because, though Mr. Berlusconi has fallen in popularity, his opponents are still quite divided: the Union of Christian and Center Democrats party, the center-left Democratic Party and the radical left are unlikely to form a working coalition.
And there can be little doubt that, to defeat his enemies, Mr. Berlusconi would fall back on an argument that he has successfully exploited in the past, namely that he, the people's choice as prime minister, would have succeeded if it weren't for a few malignant and ungrateful traitors. Indeed, he has already labeled as traitors the members of his own party who voted against him on Tuesday.
But this is more than a rhetorical tactic: Mr. Berlusconi's behavior and his own words eloquently reveal how his government is based on gaining loyalty through private favors. He truly feels betrayed that elected politicians would put the voters' interests over their loyalty to him.
He can be forgiven for feeling this way. Because of his enormous personal power -- built on an immense fortune, the proprietorship of a media empire, the rhetorical skills of a demagogue and the control of a political party that he created -- Mr. Berlusconi has been able to attain the loyalty of many people. The system he has built has the features of a lordly court: a signore sits at the center, surrounded by a large number of courtesans and servants who owe him their power, their wealth and their fame.
Many of the people Mr. Berlusconi has surrounded himself with are corrupt and servile, all the easier for him to dominate them. People with principles are regarded as dangerous enemies.
So why has he finally fallen from office? Such a system can work only as long as the courtesans and servants have faith that the signore will remain in power. Mr. Berlusconi long ago showed that he was unlikely to fall for domestic reasons. But now pressure from international markets and the European Union has convinced some of his courtesans that he can no longer guarantee their re-election and their privileges. As a result, some of them are looking elsewhere for more concrete opportunities for political survival.
This provides Italy with a chance to begin a process of civic and political regeneration. To do so it must liberate itself not only from Mr. Berlusconi, but also from his system of power, and from the political and moral bad habits that he has reinforced and relied on in the political elite and in large sectors of public opinion.
The first step should be to abandon the belief, promoted by Mr. Berlusconi's elite, that to be a free citizen means to be free from the law and civic duties. Italians must also reject the other fundamental dogma of Mr. Berlusconi's doctrine, namely that the people are not only the sovereign but the judge, and that politicians must therefore be responsible to the people, and not merely to the magistrates. And finally, Italians must rediscover a healthy republican and liberal wariness of any sort of enormous power.
This means going beyond a few necessary reforms. It must be a serious process of moral renewal inspired by the true principles of citizenship.
For this to be possible, it takes a political leader capable of uniting, inspiring and rekindling the passion for active citizenship. I may be wrong, but I fail to see a leader with those qualities in the country's political landscape. Until one emerges, it is premature to proclaim the end of Mr. Berlusconi's Italy.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARK PERNICE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); EURO CRISIS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (92%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) ITALY (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



511 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: To Save Our Economy, Ditch Taiwan

BYLINE: By PAUL V. KANE. 
Paul V. Kane, a former international security fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School, is a Marine who served in Iraq.

 BODY:
Washington
WITH a single bold act, President Obama could correct the country's course, help assure his re-election, and preserve our children's future.
He needs to redefine America's mindset about national security away from the old defense mentality that American power derives predominantly from our military might, rather than from the strength, agility and competitiveness of our economy. He should make it clear that today American jobs and wealth matter more than military prowess.
As Adm. Mike Mullen, then chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, declared last year, ''The most significant threat to our national security is our debt.'' 
There are dozens of initiatives President Obama could undertake to strengthen our economic security. Here is one: He should enter into closed-door negotiations with Chinese leaders to write off the $1.14 trillion of American debt currently held by China in exchange for a deal to end American military assistance and arms sales to Taiwan and terminate the current United States-Taiwan defense arrangement by 2015.
This would be a most precious prize to the cautious men in Beijing, one they would give dearly to achieve. After all, our relationship with Taiwan, as revised in 1979, is a vestige of the cold war.
Today, America has little strategic interest in Taiwan, which is gradually integrating with China economically by investing in and forming joint ventures with mainland Chinese firms. The island's absorption into mainland China is inevitable.
But the status quo is dangerous; if Taiwanese nationalist politicians decided to declare independence or if Beijing's hawks tired of waiting for integration and moved to take Taiwan by force, America could suddenly be drawn into a multitrillion-dollar war.
There will be ''China hawks'' who denounce any deal on Taiwan as American capitulation, but their fear of a Red China menacing Asia is anachronistic. Portraying the United States as a democratic Athens threatened by China's autocratic Sparta makes for sensational imagery, but nothing could be further from reality.
The battle today is between competing balance sheets, and it is fought in board rooms; it is not a geopolitical struggle to militarily or ideologically ''dominate'' the Pacific.
In fact, China and the United States have interlocking economic interests. China's greatest military asset is actually the United States Navy, which keeps the sea lanes safe for China's resources and products to flow freely.
China would want a deal on Taiwan for several reasons. First, Taiwan is Beijing's unspoken but hard-to-hide top priority for symbolic and strategic reasons; only access to water and energy mean more to Chinese leaders.
Second, a deal would open a clearer path for the gradual, orderly integration of Taiwan into China.
Third, it would undermine hard-line militarists who use the Taiwan issue to stoke nationalist flames, sideline pro-Western technocrats and extract larger military budgets. And finally, it would save China the considerable sums it has been spending on a vast military buildup.
Jeffrey Lewis, an East Asia expert at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, estimated that one-fourth to one-third of China's defense spending goes to forces in the vicinity of Taiwan -- at a cost of $30 billion to $50 billion a year. A deal for the resolution of Taiwan's status could save China $500 billion in defense spending by 2020 and allow Beijing to break even by 2030, while reducing America's debt and serving our broader economic interests.
The Chinese leadership would be startled -- for a change -- if the United States were to adopt such a savvy negotiating posture. Beyond reducing our debt, a Taiwan deal could pressure Beijing to end its political and economic support for pariah states like Iran, North Korea and Syria and to exert a moderating influence over an unstable Pakistan. It would be a game changer.
The deal would eliminate almost 10 percent of our national debt without raising taxes or cutting spending; it would redirect American foreign policy away from dated cold-war-era entanglements and toward our contemporary economic and strategic interests; and it would eliminate the risk of involvement in a costly war with China.
Critics will call this proposal impractical, even absurd. They will say it doesn't have a prayer of passing Congress, and doesn't acknowledge political realities. They might be right -- today.
But by pursuing this agenda, Mr. Obama would change the calculus and political reality. And Congress should see a deal with China as an opportunity to make itself credible again.
Debt is not in itself bad, when managed, but today's unsustainable debt will suffocate our economy, our democracy and our children's futures.
By tackling the issue of Taiwan, Mr. Obama could address much of what ails him today, sending a message of bold foreign policy thinking and fiscal responsibility that would benefit every citizen and be understood by every voter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); NAVIES (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); COLD WAR (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); ARMED FORCES (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (99%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011



512 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Mark Bittman)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: Get Yer Links Here

BYLINE: MARK BITTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Friday's must-read articles, culled from the blogosphere. 

 BODY:
New York lawmakers are not happy that soda ads have been shown to target minorities, and are looking for ways to change that. Here's a study that examines how school bans on sugar-sweetened beverages affect consumption.
The E.U. parliament will vote on using prophylactic antibiotics for farm animals. Meanwhile, the British government health agency suggests large factory farms are a health risk, which is obvious, but tell the U.S. government that.
Here's a piece about commodity speculation in food, and the toll it takes on the world's poor. Meanwhile, ethanol subsidies are inflating the price of corn, and driving up food chain costs; U.S. restaurant chains are not pleased. A study found that the people who eat fast food the most aren't the poor, but the almost-poor, or not-quite poor, or lower-middle class, or whatever you want to call them. Food stamp usage is up 70 percent among New Yorkers since the recession began, and of the 10 lowest paying jobs in the U.S., more than half are in the food industry.
Here's a map of the U.S., color-coded by distance to the nearest McDonald's. Bet you're close to one now!
The state department is considering rerouting the Keystone XL pipeline and, until they figure it out, delaying the decision until after the election. Here are some aerial photos of the Alberta Oil Sands, where the pipeline's oil originates.
Are cookbooks obsolete? (No, but a good piece.)
Here is a breakdown of the latest U.S.D.A. dietary guidelines in the New England Journal of Medicine. One of the authors is my hero David Ludwig.
Cooking in the classroom (we need it!).
Farmed fish are being fed more and more vegetable matter, which holds the risk of pesticide buildup. Scientists have developed a new test to check for contamination.
Genius: Run this fruit sticker under water and it dissolves into organic fruit soap that will wash the pesticides off your fruit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FACTORY FARMS (77%); ORGANIC FOODS (77%); NUTRITION (77%); ANIMALS (77%); PESTICIDES (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); POOR POPULATION (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); BIOFUELS (72%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (72%); ANTIBIOTICS (72%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (72%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); OIL SANDS (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); WRITERS (64%); ALCOHOLS (55%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (55%); AQUACULTURE (50%) farming and agriculture; Keystone XL; Oil Sands; Alberta (Canada)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALBERTA, CANADA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%) Alberta (Canada)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011



513 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Podcast: Europe, Pensions, Wealth and Phone Bills

BYLINE: JEFF SOMMER


HIGHLIGHT: A look at the latest Weekend Business podcast. 

 BODY:
For much of the past week, financial markets have fretted more about Italy than about Greece, which had been the main focus of worries for many weeks. 
While the markets were calmer on Friday, the problems in the euro zone were hardly over.
In the new Weekend Business podcast, Floyd Norris, a veteran financial reporter, says that Italy's sheer economic weight makes its problems quite threatening to the world's financial system. An impending change in political leadership in Italy and a shift that has already occurred in Greece took some of the financial pressure off both countries temporarily. But the stability of the euro zone remains very much in doubt, he says.

In the United States, a Congressional "supercommittee" has been charged with reducing the fiscal deficit by $1.2 trillion. In a separate conversation in the podcast, and in her column in Sunday Business, Gretchen Morgenson says the committee might want to focus on the taxpayer financing of military contractor pensions, which, she says, are underfunded by some $30 billion. Since defined-benefit pensions have been reduced in other sectors, she suggests, it may be worth considering whether taxpayers ought to bear this burden for defense contractors.
Questions posed by the Occupy Wall Street demonstrations are the focus of the Economic View column in Sunday Business by Tyler Cowen, a George Mason economics professor, who says he has a libertarian and conservative perspective. While he says in the podcast that he's sympathetic to the demonstrators' targeting of abuses by the "top 1 percent," he adds that the crucial distinction ought to be how you earn your money, not how much money you earn. The pursuit of wealth has long been valued in American society, he says, along with a culture of discipline and hard work, and in his view these values ought to be strengthened in the future. 
Outrageous cellphone bills have raised the hackles of the Haggler, as David Segal calls himself in his Sunday Business column. On the podcast, he discusses his efforts to adjudicate a bill that amounted to more than $25,000 in long-distance charges plus more than $1,000 in recovery fees. 
And Phyllis Korkki and Amy Cortese discuss the response of people in Saranac Lake, a small town in upstate New York, who realized that with the demise of a local store there would no longer be anyplace in town to buy underwear. They started a community-owned store, which sells assorted sundries, with the support of some local shopkeepers, who say that a variety of enterprises are needed to build customer traffic and keep the town's businesses alive. 
You can find specific segments of the podcast at these junctures: Floyd Norris on European debt (34:20); news headlines (25:37); Gretchen Morgenson on pensions (23:22); Amy Cortese on Saranac Lake (18:46); The Haggler on phone bills (13:14); Tyler Cowen on wealth (8:44); the week ahead (1:41).
You can download the program by subscribing from The New York Times's podcast page or directly from iTunes.

        
Podcast: European Debt, a Tax Plan and General Motors
        
Podcast: Eurobonds, Star Analysts and Productivity
        
Podcast: Debt Crises, Jobs, Gold and Hulu
        
Podcast: Jobs Report, European Debt and the Flat Tax
        
Podcast: European Debt, Settlement Talks, Fed Policy and Jim Collins

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PODCASTING (93%); US CONGRESSIONAL SUPER COMMITTEE (90%); TELEPHONE RATES (90%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); DEFENSE SPENDING (74%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (66%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%); RETAILERS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (62%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (61%); EXTERNAL DEBT (60%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%) cell phones; European debt crisis; federal budget; Income Inequality; Occupy Wall Street; pensions; podcast; retail; supercommittee; Tyler Cowen; Weekend Business; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Federal Budget (US); Pensions and Retirement Plans; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Shopping and Retail; Telephones and Telecommunications; Saranac Lake (NY)

ORGANIZATION: Occupy Wall Street

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); ITALY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (88%) Saranac Lake (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011



514 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: In Rain, an Omen of War

BYLINE: JIM WILSON


HIGHLIGHT: A class of cadets suffers several losses in Iraq and one member wonders if it was worth it. 

 BODY:
"No ma'am!"
"It means your class is going to war! Let me see your war face!"
"Aaaaaaarrrrrgh!"
PUB-DATE: June 29, 2000,
Not only did it pour on my R-Day, but the rain continued relentlessly for much of the summer. It was such a formative part of my class's experience, that we designed a storm cloud into our class crest as a symbol of the trials and tribulations we had to overcome to become commissioned officers. Little did I know that rain would come to symbolize for me something much deeper.
Just over a year later on Sept. 11 - a beautiful fall day ironically - the world and our lives changed forever. While my class had not yet committed to military service at this time (that occurs in your junior year), there was not a large exodus. We became more focused as cadets, particularly as operations began in Afghanistan and talk of Iraq began to percolate. We graduated in May 2004, excited and anxious for the challenges that came with joining an Army that was very much at war. But, like most of America, I did not yet fully appreciated what being at war meant.
While announcements of members of the Long Grey Line killed in action were made during midday meals, the wars still had failed to touch me personally. That changed in November 2005, when I returned from a morning work out session at Fort Huachuca in Arizona to an e-mail from a classmate, Duane, that began "I f***ing don't know how to f***ing say it, and I don't really even f***ing believe it. Dennis was killed in a roadside bomb yesterday." I sat there numb, not really sure what to do or think. Dennis Zilinski, my good friend and fellow B-3 Bandit, was the first member of my class killed in combat. The wars became very real that day.
Less than a year later, in October 2006, I arrived at Camp Taji, north of Baghdad, as the intelligence officer for First Air Cavalry Brigade, First Cavalry Division. The situation in Iraq was dire - casualties were mounting for American forces, and levels of violence among the populace were at an all-time high. Within my first 90 days in country, four more classmates were killed in action. Our class total stood at eight.
I became numb to the news of another death. While by most measures my experience as a staff officer for an aviation unit in Iraq was safe and with amenities, it did not come without a toll. While the situation on the ground in Iraq vastly improved over the course of my tour due to a number of different factors, I was mentally and emotionally exhausted after 15 months when my unit returned home in December 2007.
I left active duty in the summer of 2009, upon the completion of my service obligation, and headed to graduate school. I soon realized how easily you detach from the events of Iraq and Afghanistan. I better understood the "rest of America's" story and people's seeming ambivalence toward the wars. The numbness began to wear off, and I was hit hard in July 2010 when my plebe-year roommate, Jason Holbrook, was killed by an improvised explosive device in Afghanistan. Of those who entered West Point that rainy summer of 2000, Jason was the 13th killed in combat in Iraq and Afghanistan, the most of any class. 2 As we were told we would on our Reception Day, my class very much went to war. 
For me, that storm cloud in our crest stands not for the trials and tribulations posed by the weather that first summer, but rather for those resulting from the loss of friends and comrades and the challenge of honoring the sacrifice those lost in combat have made.
The other day, as President Obama announced that all American forces would be out of Iraq by the end of the year, I could not help but feel mixed emotions. On one hand, I felt excitement hearing of the drawdown and hope that Iraqis can take their country in a positive direction. On the other hand, I felt sadness and wondered if it was all worth it. Was it worth 4,400 killed, 32,000 wounded, according to the Department of Defense, and $800 billion? Is Iraq better off, America better off, or the world a safer place due to our efforts? Why was our military at war, but not the rest of America? Did I make a difference? Could I have done more? 
As I begin life outside of the military, I am faced with a constant inner struggle. Having been in Iraq during "the surge" and studied at Stanford where we are challenged to "change the world," the projects of the private sector often feel uninspiring. I went to West Point because I wanted to be a leader and have a significant impact, and the same holds true today. However, the experience of these wars has taught me that more important than the size of the impact is where you have it. While each passing rainstorm elicits some painful memories of fallen comrades, it also promotes an introspective review of my life choices. I need to do something Jason or Dennis would be proud of, something worthy of their sacrifice.
1. "100 hours to kick the ass of the world's fourth largest army" quote comes from a speech by General Schwarzkopf to the corps of cadets in May 1991.2. There are officially 12 members of the class of 2004 killed in Iraq. I include a 13th, Jacob N. Fritz, in the total because he was originally a member of the 2004 class, though he graduated with the class of 2005.

        
From Home Fires: A U.S. Veteran Revisits Baghdad as a Civilian
        
A Veteran Will March With Thoughts of Fellow Soldiers and Country
        
For Soldiers, the End of the Mail Means the End of the War
        
Study on 'Burn Pits' Cites Inadequate Evidence of Health Effects
        
New Data on High Unemployment Among Recent Veterans

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (91%); ARMIES (90%); IRAQ WAR (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%); WEATHER (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%) Iraq; Veterans; Veterans Day; Defense and Military Forces; Iraq War (2003- ); Veterans Day (US); United States Military Academy; A Soldier Writes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (91%) United States Military Academy

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (54%) ARIZONA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); GERMANY (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011



515 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: In Rain, an Omen of War

BYLINE: JIM WILSON


HIGHLIGHT: A class of cadets suffers several losses in Iraq and one member wonders if it was worth it. 

 BODY:
"No ma'am!"
"It means your class is going to war! Let me see your war face!"
"Aaaaaaarrrrrgh!"
PUB-DATE: June 29, 2000,
Not only did it pour on my R-Day, but the rain continued relentlessly for much of the summer. It was such a formative part of my class's experience, that we designed a storm cloud into our class crest as a symbol of the trials and tribulations we had to overcome to become commissioned officers. Little did I know that rain would come to symbolize for me something much deeper.
Just over a year later on Sept. 11 - a beautiful fall day ironically - the world and our lives changed forever. While my class had not yet committed to military service at this time (that occurs in your junior year), there was not a large exodus. We became more focused as cadets, particularly as operations began in Afghanistan and talk of Iraq began to percolate. We graduated in May 2004, excited and anxious for the challenges that came with joining an Army that was very much at war. But, like most of America, I did not yet fully appreciated what being at war meant.
While announcements of members of the Long Grey Line killed in action were made during midday meals, the wars still had failed to touch me personally. That changed in November 2005, when I returned from a morning work out session at Fort Huachuca in Arizona to an e-mail from a classmate, Duane, that began "I f***ing don't know how to f***ing say it, and I don't really even f***ing believe it. Dennis was killed in a roadside bomb yesterday." I sat there numb, not really sure what to do or think. Dennis Zilinski, my good friend and fellow B-3 Bandit, was the first member of my class killed in combat. The wars became very real that day.
Less than a year later, in October 2006, I arrived at Camp Taji, north of Baghdad, as the intelligence officer for First Air Cavalry Brigade, First Cavalry Division. The situation in Iraq was dire - casualties were mounting for American forces, and levels of violence among the populace were at an all-time high. Within my first 90 days in country, four more classmates were killed in action. Our class total stood at eight.
I became numb to the news of another death. While by most measures my experience as a staff officer for an aviation unit in Iraq was safe and with amenities, it did not come without a toll. While the situation on the ground in Iraq vastly improved over the course of my tour due to a number of different factors, I was mentally and emotionally exhausted after 15 months when my unit returned home in December 2007.
I left active duty in the summer of 2009, upon the completion of my service obligation, and headed to graduate school. I soon realized how easily you detach from the events of Iraq and Afghanistan. I better understood the "rest of America's" story and people's seeming ambivalence toward the wars. The numbness began to wear off, and I was hit hard in July 2010 when my plebe-year roommate, Jason Holbrook, was killed by an improvised explosive device in Afghanistan. Of those who entered West Point that rainy summer of 2000, Jason was the 13th killed in combat in Iraq and Afghanistan, the most of any class. 2 As we were told we would on our Reception Day, my class very much went to war. 
For me, that storm cloud in our crest stands not for the trials and tribulations posed by the weather that first summer, but rather for those resulting from the loss of friends and comrades and the challenge of honoring the sacrifice those lost in combat have made.
The other day, as President Obama announced that all American forces would be out of Iraq by the end of the year, I could not help but feel mixed emotions. On one hand, I felt excitement hearing of the drawdown and hope that Iraqis can take their country in a positive direction. On the other hand, I felt sadness and wondered if it was all worth it. Was it worth 4,400 killed, 32,000 wounded, according to the Department of Defense, and $800 billion? Is Iraq better off, America better off, or the world a safer place due to our efforts? Why was our military at war, but not the rest of America? Did I make a difference? Could I have done more? 
As I begin life outside of the military, I am faced with a constant inner struggle. Having been in Iraq during "the surge" and studied at Stanford where we are challenged to "change the world," the projects of the private sector often feel uninspiring. I went to West Point because I wanted to be a leader and have a significant impact, and the same holds true today. However, the experience of these wars has taught me that more important than the size of the impact is where you have it. While each passing rainstorm elicits some painful memories of fallen comrades, it also promotes an introspective review of my life choices. I need to do something Jason or Dennis would be proud of, something worthy of their sacrifice.
1. "100 hours to kick the ass of the world's fourth largest army" quote comes from a speech by General Schwarzkopf to the corps of cadets in May 1991.2. There are officially 12 members of the class of 2004 killed in Iraq. I include a 13th, Jacob N. Fritz, in the total because he was originally a member of the 2004 class, though he graduated with the class of 2005.

        
From Home Fires: A U.S. Veteran Revisits Baghdad as a Civilian
        
A Veteran Will March With Thoughts of Fellow Soldiers and Country
        
For Soldiers, the End of the Mail Means the End of the War
        
Study on 'Burn Pits' Cites Inadequate Evidence of Health Effects
        
New Data on High Unemployment Among Recent Veterans

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (91%); ARMIES (90%); IRAQ WAR (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%); WEATHER (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%) Iraq; Veterans; Veterans Day; Defense and Military Forces; Iraq War (2003- ); Veterans Day (US); United States Military Academy; A Soldier Writes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (91%) United States Military Academy

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (54%) ARIZONA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); GERMANY (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011



516 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Free Chicken Wings, and Other Thank-You's, for Veterans

BYLINE: MEREDITH HOFFMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Happy Veterans Day: Food franchises and other businesses have treats for soldiers. 

 BODY:
As small tokens of appreciation, restaurants and other businesses around the city are offering perks to veterans on Friday, as long as they present a military ID or other proof of service.
To start the day, veterans can pick up a free doughnut at Krispy Kreme or at Tim Horton's, where the doughnuts will be decorated with star-shaped sprinkles.
For lunch or dinner, they can head to a variety of franchises across the city.
Grab-and-go options include Subway delis' free six-inch sandwiches (though only some locations are participating) and Little Caesar's Pizza's free "crazy bread" bread sticks.
Veterans who are not bashful can grab 10 free chicken wings at Hooters - as long as they buy a beverage (it can be a nonalcoholic one, like "just pop," said one local server, who is most likely not from here). Some Hooters locations nationwide are offering a free meal as well, but the New York branches are offering wings only.
Outback Steakhouse is giving away "bloomin' onions" and nonalcoholic drinks, and Applebee's is offering free entrees. Olive Garden offers a free entree, with options that include seafood alfredo and chicken parmigiana, along with salad and bread sticks to start.
Other restaurants are promoting "buy one get one free" meals, including T.G.I. Friday's, Uno's Chicago Grill for pizza and entrees, and Sizzler for six-ounce steaks - with any side dish included.
The offers come the day after the Food Bank for New York City released a sobering report about veterans, poverty and hunger in New York City. According to the report, 25 percent of families with military veterans are struggling to pay for food. Their struggle is expected to continue, with nearly one-third of veterans' households worried they will need food assistance sometime during the next year. In addition, rates of homelessness and unemployment among veterans are higher than in the general population, the report found.
The free food choices on offer Friday are not necessarily the most nutritious ones. The military recommends a diet with no more than 35 percent of its calories from fat, for instance, but the Hooter's wings are a high-fat option, as are many of the other Veteran's Day deals. 
For vets looking for other bargains, Dollar General, Lowe's and Home Depot are all offering 10 percent discounts to veterans today. Other perks include free car washes at Soft Touch Car Wash in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, and a 20 percent discount on making stuffed animals at the Build-a-Bear Workshop.

        
Esprit de Corps at a Shelter for Veterans
        
Madison Square Park, 11:20 A.M.
        
Fewer Veterans to Honor on Their Day
        
On Holiday, Considering the Plight of Homeless Veterans
        
On Veterans Day, Movies and Poignant Memories

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FRANCHISING (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); POULTRY (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); VETERANS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); BAKED GOODS (89%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (74%); NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (73%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (68%); NUTRITION (68%); FAMILY (68%); HOMELESSNESS (68%); OILS & FATS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (62%) Veterans Day; Veterans; Applebee's International; Dollar General Corp; Hooters; Krispy Kreme Doughnuts Inc; Olive Garden Italian Restaurants; Subway Restaurants; Dollar General Corp|DG|NYSE; Krispy Kreme Doughnuts Inc|KKD|NYSE; Food and Drink

COMPANY: OSI RESTAURANT PARTNERS LLC (55%); DOLLAR GENERAL CORP (51%); BUILD-A-BEAR WORKSHOP INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Applebee's International; Dollar General Corp; Hooters; Krispy Kreme Doughnuts Inc; Olive Garden Italian Restaurants; Subway Restaurants

TICKER: DG (NYSE) (51%); BBW (NYSE) (50%) Dollar General Corp; DG; NYSE; Dollar General Corp; DG; NYSE; Krispy Kreme Doughnuts Inc; KKD; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (55%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (55%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (51%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (51%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (50%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011



517 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: #OccupyWallSt Roundup, Day 56

BYLINE: JILLIAN DUNHAM


HIGHLIGHT: Military veterans spoke out, and Joan Baez performed at Foley Square. 

 BODY:
Although many veterans have joined Occupy Wall Street, some believe the 99 percent are "blissfully unaware of the daily triumphs and tragedies" of those serving abroad in the military. [Washington Post]
After being denied permission to play a concert at Washington Square Park, where she performed in the 1960s, Joan Baez played at Foley Square in support of Occupy Wall Street on Friday afternoon. "How magnificent to see a mixed crowd gluing itself into a movement," she said afterward on Twitpic. [Washington Square Park Blog, Twitpic]
Jay-Z's clothing label Rocawear began selling "Occupy All Streets" T-shirts on Friday, but it had no plans to share profits with the movement. [Hollywood Reporter] 
Protesters walking from New York City to Washington held a general assembly at Rutgers Thursday night and marched for veterans in New Brunswick, N.J., on Friday morning. [Elizabeth Flock via Twitter] 
Will recent fights in Zuccotti lead to its evacuation? After a man was shot and killed after an argument outside the Occupy Oakland encampment, Mayor Jean Quan told protesters to leave the encampment there. [Mercury News, The Lede]
Occupy Burlington's encampment was closed after a protester shot himself in City Hall Park. [Burlington Free Press]
Police continue to confront questions of crowd control at Zuccotti. Two revelers were arrested after failing to disperse following a 50-person square dance. [Daily News]
A federal judge in New York's Southern District balked at a Securities and Exchange Commission settlement with Citigroup over mortgage-backed assets. Occupy Wall Street protesters had been critical of such deals. [Matt Taibbi]
Former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell was hesitant to criticize Wall Street on Thursday evening, but he told Piers Morgan that protests like Occupy Wall Street are "as American as apple pie." [CNN]
After several of her campaign events were interrupted by Occupy Wall Street hecklers, the Republican presidential candidate Michele Bachmann called the protesters "ignorant and disrespectful." [CBS News]
Why are the unemployed not flocking to Occupy protests? One survey found that 70 percent of Occupy Wall Street participants had jobs, compared with 56 percent of Tea Partiers. [The Nation,Accelerated-Degree.com via We Party Patriots]
A reporter following the Occupy Wall Street protests for Salon questioned an article in The New York Post suggesting that protesters may have been linked to vandalism of the Sept. 11 Memorial.
On Friday, protesters in Zuccotti plan to observe the opening of Crystal Bridges, a modern art museum founded by the Wal-Mart heiress Alice L. Walton, with a teach-in with Wal-Mart workers. [Occupy Wall St.]
And protesters will meet at Brooklyn Borough Park beginning Saturday morning for a rally and community events. The effort is coordinated with Occupy Your Block, an offshoot that encourages protesters to organize local events. [Occupy Your Block]

        
Protester Arrested During Bomb Scare Evacuation
        
#OccupyWallSt Roundup, Day 52
        
Protesters Arrested Outside Goldman Sachs Building
        
Reports of Unreported Crime at Zuccotti Park Bother Bloomberg
        
#OccupyWallSt Roundup, Day 47

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); VETERANS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); CALENDARS (88%); MAYORS (78%); RIOTS (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); CITIES (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); SHOOTINGS (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); CLOTHING LABELS (70%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); ARRESTS (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (64%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (62%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); VANDALISM (50%) demonstrations; Occupy Wall Street; protests; Baez, Joan; Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; New York City; Zuccotti Park (NYC); #OccupyWallSt Roundup

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%); BURLINGTON FREE PRESS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%) Occupy Wall Street

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: JAY-Z (57%); MICHELE BACHMANN (50%) Baez, Joan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; Zuccotti Park (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011



518 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: DealBook's Week in Review

BYLINE: ERIC OWLES


HIGHLIGHT: A look back on our reporting of the past week's highs and lows in finance. 

 BODY:
 A look back on our reporting of the past week's highs and lows in finance.
Mergers & Acquisitions
ENERGY SECTOR "BP's plan to sell its majority stake in the Argentine oil producer Pan American Energy for $7.1 billion collapsed on Sunday after the would-be buyer, the Bridas Corporation, backed out," Michael J. de la Merced of DealBook reported. 
Investment Banking
EUROPEAN DEBT CRISIS A few years European bankers thought bonds in European Union countries would provide a safe refuge, Liz Alderman of The New York Times and Susanne Craig of DealBook reported. Now sovereign debt has become the latest distressed asset, "sending tremors through global financial markets not seen since the demise of the investment bank Lehman Brothers more than three years ago."

        
The Jefferies Groupcut its holdings of some European sovereign debt by approximately half, Kevin Roose of DealBook reported.
        
Banco Santander, Deutsche Bank and others are trying to sell assets and loan portfolios to reduce their exposure to sovereign debt, Mark Scott of DealBook reported. "It is an extraordinary fire sale. Europe's financial sector is expected to sell or write down more than $1.8 trillion in loan assets in the next decade."
BONUSES "Wall Street bonuses are set to fall by an average of 20 to 30 percent this year from a year ago, according to a closely watched compensation survey," Ms. Craig reported. 
INVESTOR ANGER Wal-Mart has benefited from consumer anger over high bank fees by "quietly building up a la carte financial services, becoming a force among the unbanked and "unhappily banked," as one Wal-Mart executive put it," reported Andrew Martin and Stephanie Clifford of The New York Times. 
Labor unions are "starting to embrace some of the bold tactics and social media skills of the Occupy movement," Steven Greenhouse of The New York Times reported.
HEWLETT-PACKARD'S STUMBLES While Hewlett-Packard's board has taken the brunt of the criticism, Wall Street banks - which received $81 million in compensation for advice - have so far escaped scrutiny, wrote Andrew Ross Sorkin in his DealBook column.
THIRD-QUARTER EARNINGS HSBC's investment banking unit disappointed some analysts despite net income rising some 66 percent to $5.22 billion. The European bank said that troubles at its North American mortgage business reemerged as some customers stopped interest payments.
Private Equity
RACE TO GET BIGGER Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Apollo Global Management each announced that it would receive $3 billion from the Teacher Retirement System of Texas to manage in separate accounts devoted solely to the pension fund, Mr. Merced reported.
I.P.O./Offerings
YELP HIRES BANKERS The online reviews site for local businesses "has hired Goldman Sachs and Citigroup to lead its initial public offering of stock," Evelyn M. Rusli of DealBook reported.
Venture Capital
TECHNOLOGY SECTOR Reid Hoffman, the start-up whisperer of Silicon Valley, made his name and fortune as the co-founder of LinkedIn. "But he has also emerged as something else - as the man whom Internet entrepreneurs call when they dream of becoming the next, well, Reid Hoffman," DealBook's Evelyn M. Rusli reported from Mountain View, Calif. 
Legal/Regulatory
MF GLOBAL FALLOUT The hits just keep on coming for the former home of Jon S. Corzine.

        
Most of accounts held by MF Global's former customers were transferred to new firms, but these clients will have to post additional money to maintain their trading positions, according to notices sent out over the weekend.
        
The collapse of MF Global is sad proof that that America's financial institutions are not impervious to Euro-shocks. And "when those problems reach our shores, they usually ride in on a wave of derivatives," wrote Gretchen Morgenson, in her "Fair Game" column.
        
Last week, Gary Gensler, chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, "stepped away from the investigation amid questions over his relationship to Mr. Corzine, his former boss at Goldman Sachs and a fellow Democrat. Now, the worry is that the commission will stumble in its rare turn on center stage without its star leading the way," Ben Protess and Azam Ahmed of DealBook reported.
        
DealBook's Deal Professor, Steven M. Davidoff, said that "MF Global was torpedoed not only by Mr. Corzine but by its board."
        
Many of MF Global's clients are aiming their anger at one of the brokerage firm's primary regulators: the CME Group, Mr. Ahmed and Mr. Protess reported.
        
In MF Global's wake, "federal regulators have ordered an audit of every American futures trading firm," Mr. Protess reported.
OLYMPUS SCANDAL The revelation that Olympus of Japan used more than $1 billion in merger payouts to hide years of losses on investments could make this one of the biggest accounting-fraud cases in corporate history, Hiroko Tabuchi of The New York Times reported. 

        
As shares dropped, the company scrambled for answers.
        
"The Tokyo Metropolitan Police has begun an investigation into the cover-up," Ms. Tabuchi reported. "A Tokyo police unit that handles organized crime is also involved with the investigation."
FINANCIAL FRAUD Nearly all of the biggest financial companies "have settled fraud cases by promising that they would never again violate an antifraud law," only to have the Securities and Exchange Commission conclude they did it again a few years later," according to a New York Times analysis.
GALLEON INVESTIGATION "A federal judge on Tuesday ordered the convicted hedge fund titan Raj Rajaratnam to pay a $92.8 million penalty, the largest ever assessed against a person in a Securities and Exchange Commission insider trading case," Peter Lattman of DealBook reported.
TAX EVASION As part of a U.S. effort to crack down on tax evasion, the Swiss government ordered Credit Suisse to turn over account data on American clients.
MADOFF SCANDAL The Justice Department has decided not to pursue an investigation into the role played by David M. Becker, a former top lawyer at the S.E.C., in the calculation of payouts to victims of Bernard L. Madoff's Ponzi scheme, Louise Story of The New York Times reported.
CITIGROUP MORTGAGE SETTLEMENT A federal judge overseeing the bank's $285 million settlement with the S.E.C. expressed concerns about the agency's enforcement practices, Mr. Lattman reported. "The settlement would effectively close the book on regulators' accusations that the bank deceived investors in the sale of mortgage securities."
Whine and Dine
BITING THE HANDS HE FEEDS Mario Batali has apologized, but many financiers are still steamed about being compared to Hitler and Stalin.
If you have any brunch recommendations that involve a particularly strong Bloody Mary, please share them with DealBook in the comments below. Anything that doesn't involve a McRibs would be acceptable.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); PUBLIC DEBT (91%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); MERGERS (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); EURO CRISIS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (76%); BONDS (76%); PRIVATE EQUITY (76%); DEBT CRISIS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); SOCIAL MEDIA (67%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (66%); SALARY SURVEYS (64%) Top Headline 2; Week in Review

COMPANY: BRIDAS CORP (72%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%); KKR & CO LP (61%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); BANCO SANTANDER SA (57%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); JEFFERIES GROUP INC (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (72%); KKR (NYSE) (61%); GS (NYSE) (58%); SANT (LIS) (57%); SANT (BIT) (57%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (57%); SAN (NYSE) (57%); SAN (MCE) (57%); SAN (BMV) (57%); BNC (LSE) (57%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%); JEF (NYSE) (56%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%); APO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (72%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (61%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011



519 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1942 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
Vivendi in $1.9 Billion EMI Deal | After a drawn-out auction, Citigroup has sold the recorded music division of the EMI Group to Vivendi, owner of the Universal Music Group, for $1.9 billion, according to a person briefed on the situation.
The deal caps a process that lasted months, in which it appeared that the unit of EMI, which counts the Beatles among its artists, might sell for around $1.5 billion, less than the $1.7 billion to $1.8 billion Citigroup was said to be seeking. Universal became the front-runner after the billionaire Len Blavatnik, whose company owns Warner Music, reportedly walked away from the bidding process late last month.
This week, The New York Times reported that EMI would be sold in two pieces, splitting the recorded music and publishing divisions. The Sony Corporation is said to be considering the publishing unit.
DEALBOOK | NEW YORK TIMES | FINANCIAL TIMES
DEAL NOTES
Rich Americans' Days on Top Are Numbered | North America has only 20 more years to enjoy the distinction of being home to more ultra-rich individuals than Asia, according to a new study, Bloomberg News reports.
"North America is so far ahead thanks to its entrepreneurship," Mykolas Rambus, chief executive of Wealth-X, which released the study, told Bloomberg. "It will take time for Asia's millionaires to build up their wealth into the ultra-affluent bracket, but when the switch happens, it is likely to be permanent."
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Irish Business Titan Goes Bankrupt | Sean Quinn, once considered Ireland's richest man with a net worth of about $3.8 billion, has declared bankruptcy over debts to Anglo Irish Bank, much of which he disputes, BBC News reports.
BBC NEWS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Sinopec Expands in Brazil With Stake in Energy Company | China's energy companies have spent billions of dollars in recent years to gain access to new energy resources.
DealBook 
E*Trade Calls Off Its Efforts to Sell Itself | E*Trade withdrew its efforts to sell itself following recommendations from its adviser, Goldman Sachs, and public dismissals of interest from potential buyers like TD Ameritrade.
DealBook 
Caterpillar to Buy Mining Machine Maker | Caterpillar has struck a deal to buy ERA Mining Machinery, a Chinese company that manufactures coal mining equipment, for $886 million, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES | BLOOMBERG NEWS
Exchanges Are Said to Work on New Plan for Merger | After failing to allay regulators' concerns about a merger, NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Borse are working on concessions before a deadline later this month, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Goldman's Fee in Energy Deal: $20 Million | Goldman Sachs is set to collect a tidy $20 million fee for advising the El Paso Corporation in its sale to Kinder Morgan, a deal that would create the nation's biggest natural gas pipeline network, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Two Strategies for Prospective Yahoo Buyers | While buyout shops like Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and TPG Capital have signed confidentiality agreements to get access to information, other firms, like the Blackstone Group and Bain Capital, are refraining from signing the documents that would limit their ability to team up with other partners, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Ahead of New Rules, Europe's Banks Go on a Selling Spree | European banks are shedding assets to cut their exposure to debt and refocus on their home markets as they prepare to follow new financial rules.
DealBook 
Accounting Obscures What's Really Going On | Banks are fighting to stay profitable, but that's not always obvious in their financial statements, which appear rosier because of a collection of accounting rules, The New York Times's Floyd Norris writes.
NEW YORK TIMES
Italian Banks Borrowing More | As Italian bond yields soar, the country's banks are tapping the European Central Bank for money, borrowing $152 billion as of the end of October, or 19 percent of the total European Central Bank lending, Bloomberg News reports.
"The Italian banks are trapped," Roger Doig, an analyst at Schroders, told Bloomberg. "They are where they are and that's with the Italian sovereign."
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Allianz Profit Hit by Greek Debt | Third-quarter profit at the German insurance company Allianz fell to $350 million, a nearly 80 percent drop from a year earlier, as the bank took losses on Greek debt, The Associated Press reports.
ASSOCIATED PRESS | BLOOMBERG NEWS
HSBC Employees Get Laid Off | The bank, which has about 4,700 employees in New York, gave pink slips to 100 workers this week, The New York Post reports.
NEW YORK POST
Out of Work, and Out of Options | Laid-off bankers in Asia are finding few opportunities for new employment, with the entire industry undergoing a period of retrenching, Reuters reports.
"There are plenty of resumes going around in the market right now, just not too many takers," Joe Neitham, a recruiter at the TRC Group in Singapore, told Reuters. 
REUTERS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Barclays Buyout Shop Gets Management Buyout | Barclays Private Equity is being bought by its management team, which plans to rename it Equistone Partners Europe and sell about $70 million in assets, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
McDonald's as Distressed Property Investor | The fast food giant, which owns about 45 percent of the land and 70 percent of the buildings for its restaurants, is looking to take advantage of the down market and buy more of those assets, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
California Firm Has Reversal of Fortune | The private equity firm Blum Capital, whose clients include public pension funds in California, has experienced a slide in the value of its investments amid volatile markets, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
British Firm to Cut Jobs | 3i, the British buyout shop, plans to cut 10 percent of its work force, or about 45 jobs, as its shares trade at a steep discount to its net asset value, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
HEDGE FUNDS 
Nobel Winner Calls Hedge Fund Work 'Academic' | Thomas J. Sargent, who recently won the Nobel prize in economics, tells Bloomberg BusinessWeek about his new job advising the hedge fund Hutchin Hill.
"For me, this is essentially academic work," Mr. Sargent said. "What I do is I go down to their offices, they ask me some questions, and I go to the blackboard. It's almost like a seminar. We talk about what makes the macroeconomy tick."
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK
Hedge Fund to Profit on European Woes | A former analyst at the Portuguese bank Banco Espirito Santo plans to start a hedge fund early next year that will bet on banks' restructuring, FINalternatives reports.
FINALTERNATIVES
Green Mountain Still Relatively Expensive | Even after its stock plunged amid the hedge fund manager David Einhorn's bet against it, Green Mountain Coffee Roasters is still nearly twice as expensive as the median company in the S&P 500 index, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Betting on R.I.M. | The hedge fund manager Leon Cooperman, of Omega Advisors, recently bought 1.43 million shares of the BlackBerry maker Research In Motion, which have plummeted this year, Dow Jones Newswires reports.
DOW JONES NEWSWIRES | ALLTHINGSD
A New China Fund | Rega Technologies, based in Hong Kong, plans to start a new $40 million fund in January, focused on Chinese equities, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Zynga: Bully or Meritocracy? | Mark Pincus, Zynga's chief, said in an internal e-mail that a Wall Street Journal article about clawing back shares ahead of its I.P.O. had cast the company in a "false and skewed light."
DealBook 
Groupon Being Shorted About as Much as Possible | When traders were first allowed to bet against Groupon this week by borrowing shares and then selling them, nearly 100 percent of the shares available to be loaned out were shorted, The Financial Times reports.
"Investors are prepared to pay the highest fee to borrow the stock before shorting it," Alex Brog, an analyst at Data Explorers, which gathered the data, told the newspaper.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Weighing In on Groupon | Bloomberg BusinessWeek has a round-up of opinions from technology and finance professionals on Groupon's I.P.O., with some praising the company and others expressing skepticism. Brad Feld, managing director at the venture capital firm Foundry Group, had this to say: "Groupon went public?"
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Fact-Checking London's Tech Success | Despite Prime Minister David Cameron's praise of the British government's efforts to promote a London neighborhood as a start-up hub, the local technology scene may not be as booming as it's made out to be, GigaOm reports.
GIGAOM
Cloud Services Company Raises $3 Million | Standing Cloud, which offers cloud-based computing services, raised $3 million in a round of financing, despite that the market seems to be saturated with its product, GigaOm reports.
GIGAOM
Online Music Start-Up Expands | TechCrunch profiles the start-up Shuffler.fm, which allows users to listen to music culled from various blogs, and which said it recently raised $700,000 in a round of financing.
TECHCRUNCH
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
In MF Global's Wake, Regulators to Audit All Futures Firms | Federal regulators have ordered an audit of every American futures trading firm to verify that customer money is protected, a move that comes after roughly $600 million in client money was discovered to be missing from MF Global, the bankrupt brokerage firm once run by Jon S. Corzine. The decision is meant to restore calm to a jittery industry.
DealBook 
Consumer Groups Question Capital One's HSBC Deal | Capital One's planned takeover of HSBC's American credit card business would face tougher scrutiny from regulators if consumer groups have their way.
DealBook 
France Not Happy About S&P Error | Standard & Poor's sent an alert that suggested it was cutting France's sovereign credit rating, but then clarified - nearly two hours later - that the whole thing was a mistake.
France's finance minister, Francois Baroin, called S&P's error "quite shocking," according to Reuters.
REUTERS | WALL STREET JOURNAL
Executive Perks Draw S.E.C. Inquiry | The Securities and Exchange Commission is looking into the executive perks at Nabors Industries, whose chairman is set to receive $100 million, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Morgan Stanley Agrees to Follow Foreclosure Rules | The bank struck a deal with the State of New York in which it agreed to refrain from "robo-signing," or the approval of foreclosure documents without reading them, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
European Nations Try to Tap Mom and Pop | The governments of strapped countries like Ireland, Spain and Italy are turning toward retail investors for money, offering interest rates lower than what institutional investors demand, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Regulator Considers Disciplining Swiss Banks | A regulator in Switzerland found problems with the way four of the country's banks handled money from officials connected to the former governments of Tunisia, Egypt and Libya, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
UBS Agrees to $8 Million Settlement | The Securities and Exchange Commission had accused the bank of keeping inaccurate logs of short-selling, saying the behavior was "pervasive, extending to every security handled by the lending desk," The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (92%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); MERGERS (88%); PUBLISHING (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (67%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (64%); COAL MINING (60%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: EMI GROUP LTD (96%); VIVENDI (91%); CITIGROUP INC (85%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (83%); BLOOMBERG LP (82%); EL PASO CORP (82%); SONY CORP (69%); UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (58%); RAMBUS INC (55%); IRISH BANK RESOLUTION CORP LTD (IBRC) (53%); CHINA PETROLEUM & CHEMICAL CORP (53%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (53%); TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (52%); ERA MINING MACHINERY LTD (51%); KINDER MORGAN INC (50%); NYSE EURONEXT INC (50%)

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (91%); VIV (BIT) (91%); C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%); SON (LSE) (69%); SNE (NYSE) (69%); 6758 (TSE) (69%); RMBS (NASDAQ) (55%); SNP (NYSE) (53%); SNP (LSE) (53%); 0386 (HKSE) (53%); GS (NYSE) (53%); AMTD (NYSE) (52%); KMI (NYSE) (50%); NYX (PAR) (50%); NYX (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (96%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (96%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (82%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (82%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (82%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (82%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (69%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (55%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC5064 ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES (51%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

PERSON: LEONARD BLAVATNIK (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); IRELAND (54%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011



520 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: Kraft Gives Plum Assignment to Crispin Porter & Bogusky

BYLINE: STUART ELLIOTT


HIGHLIGHT: The agency has been a recent favorite of the packaged-food giant, which has started working with shops that are known for their distinctive creative output. 

 BODY:
Kraft Foods, the largest American marketer of packaged foods, is expanding its relationship with a new favorite agency, Crispin Porter & Bogusky, awarding it plum assignments in connection with the introduction of a Kraft product in the United States.
Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners, will be the lead creative agency for belVita Breakfast biscuits, which are already sold in markets like Britain and Europe and will be brought out in February in the United States.
The ads created by Crispin Porter for belVita will run in traditional and digital media outlets as well as social media. Some promotions and events could begin in January.
The agency began working for Kraft in March 2010 when it was awarded the Kraft Macaroni and Cheese account from DraftFCB, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
Pleased with the offbeat, humorous work for that brand, Kraft has subsequently given Crispin Porter the creative accounts for Jell-O (in November 2010) and Triscuit (August).

The hiring of Crispin Porter is part of an effort by Dana Anderson, senior vice president for marketing strategy and communications at Kraft, to shake up the Kraft agency rosterand start working with shops that are known for their distinctive creative output.
Other such agencies that Ms. Anderson has started working with include the Martin Agency, also part of Interpublic; Droga5; Wieden & Kennedy; and Taxi, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands unit of WPP.
For belVita, Kraft is also assigning additional tasks to other agencies. They are: MediaVest, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group unit of the Publicis Groupe, for media planning and strategy; DraftFCB, for promotions in stores and with consumers; Edelman, for public relations; and Pierce, for sampling and what is known as experiential marketing.
The new belVita line will be composed of biscuits made with whole grains and vitamins in flavors like blueberry. Each package will contain five packs, each with four biscuits. The retail price will be around $3.69.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FOOD INDUSTRY (94%); FOOD MFG (91%); PACKAGED GOODS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); MARKETING STRATEGY (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (71%) Anderson, Dana; Advertising and Marketing; Crispin Porter & Bogusky; Kraft Foods Inc; Kraft Foods Inc|KFT|NYSE; advertising

COMPANY: CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (93%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (92%); DRAFTFCB INC (91%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (85%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (83%); MDC PARTNERS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Crispin Porter & Bogusky; Kraft Foods Inc

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (92%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (85%); PUB (PAR) (83%); MDZ.A (TSX) (58%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (58%) Kraft Foods Inc; KFT; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%)

PERSON: Anderson, Dana

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011



521 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: In Ad Agency Merger, Vitro Takes on Skinny

BYLINE: STUART ELLIOTT


HIGHLIGHT: The two smaller agencies, which are owned by MDC Partners, will form a single entity with offices on the East and West Coasts. 

 BODY:
Two smaller advertising agencies owned by MDC Partners are merging to form a single agency with offices on the East and West Coasts.
The agencies are Skinny, founded in New York in 2008, and Vitro, which was known as Vitro Robertson when it opened in San Diego in 1992.
The agencies will be combined under the Vitro name and the principals of the new Vitro will be based in San Diego and New York.
The merger is indicative of efforts by agencies to seek more efficient and effective ways to operate in a challenging economy.
For instance, twice last year, MDC merged smaller agencies into larger ones. One merger gave a New York agency, Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners, an office in Atlanta; another provided a Toronto office for Crispin Porter & Bogusky, which is based in Miami and Boulder, Colo.
"The most important thing in this merger is that we can go after bigger and better" accounts, said Jonas Hallberg, a chief creative officer at Skinny, who becomes a chief creative officer at the merged Vitro.
Skinny has not prevailed in some account reviews because the potential clients said "we're small and don't have a two-coast presence," he added. "Now, we will be a true contender."
Tom Sullivan, a principal at Vitro who becomes chief executive of the new Vitro, said his agency had often been told by advertisers on the East Coast "that they don't want to talk to a California shop."
"When we asked them what do we need to do to get to the next level," he added, they replied, "Scale."
All the employees of Vitro and Skinny, and all the clients, will be part of the new Vitro, the principals said.
Skinny had more than 20 employees and the premerger Vitro had more than 80, giving the combined agency more than 100 employees.
The clients for the merged Vitro will include Asics, from the previous Vitro; P. F. Chang's China Bistro, also from the previous Vitro; Diageo, from Skinny; Newcastle Brown Ale, from the previous Vitro; Nokia, from Skinny; Target, from Skinny; and Wired, from Skinny.
It is safe to say that the addition of Skinny's resources will help Vitro as it seeks to keep the Asics account in a review that Asics announced recently.
The other principals of the merged Vitro are: John Vitro, executive creative director of the previous Vitro, who is creative chairman; and Liron Reznik, a chief creative officer at Skinny, who remains a chief creative officer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); EXECUTIVES (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (78%); DIVESTITURES (74%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%) Advertising and Marketing; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; MDC Partners Incorporated; MDC Partners Incorporated|MDZ.DB|TORONTO; advertising

COMPANY: CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (70%); P F CHANG'S CHINA BISTRO INC (64%); MDC PARTNERS INC (58%); DIAGEO PLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: MDC Partners Incorporated

TICKER: MDZ.A (TSX) (58%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (58%); DGE (PAR) (52%); DGE (LSE) (52%); DEO (NYSE) (52%) MDC Partners Incorporated; MDZ.DB; TORONTO

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (64%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (64%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (52%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (52%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (52%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); WEST USA (91%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011



522 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: Opinion Report: A Good Day for Menhaden Fish

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page. 

 BODY:
The only European institution still potentially capable of halting the cascading crisis is the European Central Bank, which can print unlimited Euros and use them to buy enough Italian bonds to lower interest rates. Unfortunately, European leaders are still preaching hard-line austerity.
It's great news that the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission has moved to protect the menhaden fish, an essential link in the ocean food chain whose numbers have plummeted over the last half-century.
When Congress passed a law directing the State Department to record Israel as the place of birth for American citizens born in Jerusalem, it interfered with the president's power to recognize foreign governments.
Penn State's board was right to dismiss Joe Paterno, whose failure to act had tragic consequences for Jerry Sandusky's victims. Now the University should try to better explain the situation to the angry, misinformed students who rioted in the streets when they heard of the coach's dismissal.
A Los Angeles Times editorial also broaches the topic of Penn State's "moral lapses." The students, the LA Times argues, "have a right to be angry, but not about losing their beloved coach. Rather, their ire should be focused on the university and those who did too little to protect endangered children."

        
Opinion Report: Penn State
        
Opinion Report: Tobacco Warnings
        
He Wants to Retire?
        
Opinion Report: Unemployment Benefits and Pensions
        
Opinion Report: Fixing Tickets and Punishing the Poor

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); CHILDREN (76%); FISHERIES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); RIOTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%) opinion report; Pennsylvania State University; Paterno, Joe

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (82%)

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (93%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); ATLANTIC STATES MARINE FISHERIES COMMISSION (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%)

PERSON: JOE PATERNO (92%); JERRY SANDUSKY (54%) Paterno, Joe

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (55%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (91%); ISRAEL (55%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011



523 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: The European Car Wreck

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: What if the Republicans were in charge in Italy and Greece? 

 BODY:
As I watched the governments in Italy and Greece change hands from the politicians who helped create the current disasters to little-known technocrats who will be conveniently blamed for not fixing them right away, I couldn't help but wonder - with a shudder - what would happen if one of the crop of Republican presidential hopefuls were put in charge there.
Mitt Romney would denounce bailouts (even though they are unavoidable) and announce that homeowners and the jobless could just pull themselves up by their bootstraps.
Ron Paul would denounce government in general.
Michele Bachmann would blame the whole mess on government meddling and demand that the European banks be left alone, never mind that the problem has not been too much regulation, but lax regulation.
(As the Times has reported, several dozen banks in Europe and the United States have earned $1.1 billion since 2005 in fees from selling bonds for European governments. The banks acted as though Greece's debt was the same as Germany's, and regulators encouraged it by permitting banks to treat the debt of any country in the club of developed nations as risk free.)
Rick Perry would just start disbanding government agencies, if he could remember their names.
But enough with hypotheticals. Will the new leaders of Italy and Greece do any better than their predecessors. Will they encourage growth over austerity to avert further calamity?
I asked David C. Unger, who covers the European crisis for the editorial board, what we should make of the new Greek prime minister, Lucas Papademos, and the likely new Italian leader, Mario Monti.
His answer was a wildly enthusiastic "we have nothing against them."
David went on, "Both are capable and fair-minded economists likely to carry out overdue reforms, but for their reforms and market-calming achievements to last beyond their brief, transitional terms in office, they will need help."
They are not likely to get it from either country's established political leaders, who will spend this transitional period regrouping and hoping that they can slide back into office when reforms prove unpopular.
The help they need, as the editorial board noted today, is from the European Central Bank, which is the only European institution capable of halting this cascading crisis. The bank can print euros and use them to buy enough Italian bonds to bring down interest rates on Italian debt (currently at more than 7 percent). That can't guarantee an end to the fire sale on Italian bonds, but there are not a lot of options left.
Wouldn't it be nice if Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President Nicholas Sarkozy of France would publicly urge the bank's president, Mario Draghi, to do just that? Unfortunately that's about as unlikely as the Congressional Republicans suddenly deciding to forget obstruction and actually help the president with our own economic problems.

        
Opinion Report: Jobs and Bankers
        
Papandreou Scraps the Referendum
        
Readers Respond: Greece on the Brink
        
Opinion Report: Crisis Management
        
The G-20 Blues

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (72%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) European debt crisis; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- )

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); RON PAUL (58%); RICK PERRY (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%); ANGELA MERKEL (51%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREECE (94%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011



524 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Do Presidential Candidates Need to Be Good Debaters?

BYLINE: HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Do debate errors and gaffes raise questions about a candidate's ability to be a good president, or are can they be easily overlooked? 

 BODY:
As Jeff Zeleny and Ashley Parker report, Governor Perry is trying to recover from his embarrassing moment:
A day after an embarrassing stumble raised new questions about his presidential candidacy, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas said Thursday that he had no intention of leaving the race, and he tried using humor to deflect a fresh round of stinging Republican criticism. 
"You bet I'm going to continue on," Mr. Perry said in an interview on NBC's "Today." He added, "Going through that long list of government agencies is really what this campaign's all about. I'm human like everyone else."
As Mr. Perry sought to reassure his supporters and contributors, his campaign tried to turn his mind lapse at a Republican presidential debate into an opportunity. He struggled to name the three agencies of government that he would like to eliminate, so he started a contest on his Web site, asking: "What part of the federal government would you like to forget about the most?"
"This campaign is about ideas," Mr. Perry said. "It's not about who's the slickest debater or whether anyone's made a mistake or not. We're all going to make mistakes."
Mr. Perry arrived at the Republican presidential debate here on Wednesday night on a mission to get his candidacy back on track. He left Michigan on Thursday morning facing a new burden of trying to prove to Republicans that he remains a top-tier candidate.
The first hour of the debate passed without incident. The second did not. He declared that he planned to eliminate three government agencies in Washington. But as he began to explain, he could think of only two.
"Commerce, Education," Mr. Perry said before pausing for an uncomfortable moment as he looked from side to side, counting on his fingers and flipping through his notes. As his rivals volunteered suggestions, a moderator asked Mr. Perry if he could name the third agency.
"The third one, I can't," he finally said, a sad look on his face, after 53 seconds had gone by. "Sorry. Oops."
Students: Tell us what you think about Mr. Perry's candidacy with respect to his debate performances. Do you think gaffes like his memory lapse raise questions about his ability to be a good president? Or do you think they are something to overlook? Is it evidence that Mr. Perry does not truly believe in his own positions? Or just a "human" error? Should debate performance be a prime factor in determining who should represent a political party in a presidential race? 
Students 13 and older are invited to comment below. Please use only your first name. For privacy policy reasons, we will not publish student comments that include a last name.

        
Nov. 8, 1960 | Kennedy Is Elected President
        
Nov. 4, 2008 | Obama Is Elected President
        
Nov. 2, 1976 | Carter Defeats Ford in Presidential Election
        
Help Wanted? Debating Unemployment Legislation
        
Christie Will Not Run for President

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (50%) debate; presidential election; Student Opinion

PERSON: RICK PERRY (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011



525 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Why Do the Republican Debates Seem to Matter So Much?

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: More people are tuning in than ever before. The question is, Why? 

 BODY:
There have been nine Republican presidential debates this year, and each one seems to have more influence over the course of the campaign than the last one.
More people are tuning in than ever -- the debate was the most popular program in its time slot on all of cable on Wednesday night -- and the fortunes of each candidate seem to be determined by their performances under the glare of the lights.
The question is, Why? 
To speculate on the answer -- and to help assess the impact of the debates on the course of the Republican contest -- The Caucus called up Ron Klain, a former chief of staff to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and one of the few people who have experience serving as a debate coach to numerous presidential and vice-presidential candidates.
Mr. Klain, a veteran Democratic adviser and strategist who is now president of Case Holdings, a technology firm founded by the former AOL chief Steve Case, offered several helpful suggestions:
1. No Democratic Debates.
Why are more people watching Republican gatherings on television this time around? Maybe it's because Democrats don't have anything else to do in the evening. Without Democratic debates to fill their time, curious liberals are tuning in to get their fill of televised political combat. 
"I'm watching more Republican debates than I did in 2008," Mr. Klain said, chuckling. 
Of course, he might be watching for strategic reasons; it's possible that President Obama might soon call on Mr. Klain to help him prepare for debates against whoever becomes the Republican nominee.
2. The Media Darlings. 
It's also the case, Mr. Klain notes, that the Republican candidates are not the typical collection of middle-aged, somewhat boring governor or senators. Instead, many of them are genuine media personalities who know how to use the television camera to their advantage.
Representative Michele Bachmann gained national attention even before her presidential bid by being good on television. Herman Cain spent years as a radio talk show host and giving speeches -- good preparation for the debate spotlight. Newt Gingrich made a post-Congressional career out of opining on television programs.
"The Republican field is more of a collection of media figures than it is actual candidates," Mr. Klain noted. "They are highly telegenic. If your job was to cast a reality series called 'The Republican Presidential Debates,' this is the group that you would want cast for that program."
3. The J.J. Abrams Effect.
People, Mr. Klain notes, like to watch a narrative that plays out over the course of several episodes. (Very much, The Caucus thinks, like the television series that J.J. Abrams created: "Lost" or "Alias.") The debates this year have had that kind of feel for viewers, Mr. Klain said.
"The up and down of all the non-Romney candidates have given people a reason to tune in to see who's up and who's down," he said. "There's a drama."
Will Michele Bachmann do better? Will Mitt Romney and Rick Perry fight? Can Mr. Perry bounce back? Will Mr. Cain get 'The Question?' Tune in next time!
Mr. Klain recalled the advice of Harry Thomason, a close friend of former President Bill Clinton, who advised Mr. Clinton in 1992 not to think of each debate like a stand-alone event that was disconnected to the others.
"You need to think about the debates as like a miniseries," Mr. Klain recalled Mr. Thomason saying two decades ago. "There had to be a narrative for why you would tune in, week after week to watch these things. The Republicans have given a reason to tune in."
4. A Late Start.
Maybe more people are watching the debates because the campaign started so much later this year. By the time debates started in 2007, the candidates had been running full-tilt for months, so Americans already felt like they had heard it all.
That sounds right, Mr. Klain said, though he added that it's also true that the decline of network news and the rise of the Internet means that fewer people see video of the candidates every night on television.
"In the olden days, people were watching the nightly news," Mr. Klain recalled, giving his age away a little bit. The debates, he said, are "a convenient, one-stop place to see these people."
It's also easier for people to be drawn into the debates even as they are underway. Anyone with a Twitter account who had forgotten about Wednesday night's debate on CNBC no doubt raced to turn on their television sets after Mr. Perry's stumble lit up the tweeting universe.
5. Serious Times.
And, of course, Mr. Klain notes that the Republican debates are playing out against the backdrop of tough economic times. Surveys suggest that people are engaged with the political process because they are worried about the future of the country. 
"We are in a time of some social upheaval, with protests on the left and the right," Mr. Klain said. "They think it's important. It's an important time."
So do the debates matter more now? 
At the simplest level, Mr. Klain said, if there are more people watching the debates, they will matter more. But he cautioned that there had been important debate moments in previous campaigns. He recalled that John Kerry virtually erased a huge lead by President George W. Bush after the first debate of that general election campaign.
But there may be something to the idea that the debates matter even more now, he said. The proliferation of political commentary on blogs, news Web sites and even Twitter has made it possible to experience the political campaigns entirely through the eyes of other people. 
But that may make people even more eager to find out for themselves.
"We're a little more in a 'see it yourself, judge for yourself' moment," he said. "The debates are hugely impactful that way because people want to judge for themselves."
The more people read or hear about the campaign, he said, "the less they are willing to outsource this."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL DEBATES (92%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (77%); REALITY TELEVISION (72%); LIBERALISM (71%) Klain, Ronald A; Debates (Political); Presidential Election of 2012; CNBC; United States; Elections; The Caucus; The White House

ORGANIZATION: CNBC

PERSON: RON KLAIN (90%); STEVE CASE (68%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); HERMAN CAIN (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); J J ABRAMS (51%) Klain, Ronald A

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011



526 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Romney Hosts Veterans Round Table in S.Carolina

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney spent Veterans Day with a table full of veterans, discussing ideas for improving conditions facing the nation's service members as they return from war. 

 BODY:
MAULDIN, S.C. - Mitt Romney spent Veterans Day with a table full of veterans on Friday, sharing plastic plates of barbecue as well as ideas for improving conditions facing the nation's service members as they return from war.
He also briefly floated the idea of using a voucher system to help veterans get reliable and quality health care, an option that echoed portions of a Medicare plan he recently rolled out at the Americans for Prosperity Foundation's summit.
After listening to several men talk about problems they had encountered with their Veterans Affairs benefits and health care, Mr. Romney mused that it sounded like some free-market competition might help.
"When you work in the private sector and you have a competitor, you know if you don't treat this customer right, they're going to leave me and go somewhere else, so I'd better treat them right," he said. "Whereas if you're the government, they know there's nowhere else you guys can go. You're stuck."
He added, "Sometimes you wonder if there would be some way to introduce some kind of sector competition, somebody else who could come in and say, you know, each soldier gets X thousands of dollars attributed to them, and then they can choose whether they want to go with the government's system or a private system."
Sitting among roughly a dozen veterans at Mutt's BBQ, Mr. Romney also reassured the group that while he was concerned about cutting the budget, he would not make cuts in defense spending. 
"I'm not going to cut the military," he said. "In fact, I'm going to add to our military commitment. I believe our military continues to be critical to protect our freedom. I do not see the world as a safer place. I see the developments around the world as calling for continued investment in our military."
But, Mr. Romney added, he did see "waste in our military system" that could be eliminated to make the system more efficient.
"I do not want to take that money to pay for social programs or even to balance the budget," Mr. Romney said. "I want to take the funds that are being wasted and use them to rebuild our Navy and Air Force, use them to have additional active-duty personnel - about 100,000 troops - use them to give the care to our veterans that our veterans deserve. And so I will not look to the military as a place to balance our budget."
Later, he reiterated the same point, explaining that one way to help improve veterans' care would be to divert the money saved by eliminating inefficiencies in the military to agencies such as the V.A.
"As we find savings - and we will in the inefficiencies of government - we should apply the proceeds of those savings to help assure that we're providing for our veterans in the way they deserve to be treated," he said.
Mr. Romney began the afternoon event by reminiscing about his visit to the beaches of Normandy as a young man.
"When I went to the cemetery and saw the row upon row, acre upon acre, of service men and women who had lost their lives, it was overwhelming," he said. "It is a sad and constant reminder that the price of liberty is extraordinarily high and to those who put themselves in harm's way to protect our freedoms, we owe the greatest debt of gratitude."
The round table had a conversational feel, with Mr. Romney peppering the men with questions - How did their V.A. care compare to other health care alternatives? Had they found any companies that were particularly receptive to hiring veterans? What had their experience returning home been like?
Mr. Romney also used the opportunity to criticize President Obama's decision to remove troops from Iraq by the end of 2011.
"It is my view that the withdrawal of all of our troops from Iraq by the end of this year is an enormous mistake, and failing by the Obama administration," Mr. Romney said. "The precipitous withdrawal is unfortunate - it's more than unfortunate, I think it's tragic. It puts at risk many of the victories that were hard won by the men and women who served there."
He did, however, have some praise for Mr. Obama, referring to the president's incentives to encourage companies to hire veterans.
"I also recognize that something the president has put on the table - I think it's a good idea - which is providing a credit to employers who hire veterans, hire those veterans in particularly who have been out of work for a while, and those who are coming home," Mr. Romney said. "It's a temporary measure but given the high level of unemployment among veterans and given the large influx of them coming into back into the country, I think it's an idea that has merit."
When a woman asked about how, as president, Mr. Romney would boost the morale of people in the military and their families, Mr. Romney called for a return of the fireside chats of World War II.
"I think when you're at war, and you have men and women at war, you expect the president of the United States to address the nation on a regular basis, to bring the people up to date as to what's happening, and to have the people of America know that you're at war, and why you're at war, and where the successes are and where the problems are," he said. "If you're president of the United States, the people of America deserve a regular briefing."
But despite the focus on military issues, Mr. Romney frequently returned to his experience in the private sector and the need to fix the economy.
"The economy is the biggest single problem facing the returning soldiers," Mr. Romney said. "And we've got to do a better job of helping those coming home find the jobs they deserve."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VETERANS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ARMED FORCES (86%); MILITARY BENEFITS (78%); POLITICS (74%); AIR FORCES (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); MEDICARE (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (70%); BUDGET CUTS (69%) Romney, Mitt; Politics and Government; Veterans; South Carolina; Elections

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011



527 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: Cain's Paine

BYLINE: SOPHIA ROSENFELD


HIGHLIGHT: Who knew that all you need to be president of the United States is a modicum of common sense? 

 BODY:
Who knew that all you need to be president of the United States is a modicum of common sense? All year, the candidates for the Republican nomination have been touting their intimate relationship with this humdrum way of seeing the world. Michele Bachmann claimed that "everything I needed to know in life I learned in Iowa," which she left at the age of 12. Rick Perry told Iowans that unlike the current president, he doesn't have a lot of interest in "studies" when it comes to restoring economic health. "We know what the problem is," he said. "It's not magic, it is actually common sense." We shouldn't "spend all the money." Even decidedly unfolksy Mitt Romney announced this week at a gathering of Americans for Prosperity, "I believe we can save Social Security with a few common-sense reforms."
But no candidate has tried harder to link himself to this everyday pragmatism than Herman Cain, the former C.E.O. of Godfather's Pizza, whose "Common Sense Solutions" bus tour functions as the centerpiece of his "unconventional" campaign. And no one has been pushing the connection longer. More than a decade before his fellow Tea Party star, Glenn Beck, offered up his best-selling "Glenn Beck's Common Sense," a 2009 rewrite of Thomas Paine's great pamphlet, Cain had already published a how-to book called "Leadership is Common Sense." He had also granted himself the title "President of the University of Common Sense" on his radio show in Atlanta. For Cain, common sense has come close to a mantra, one that is regularly repeated by his fans as well.
The tagline is showing more than a little wear and tear at the moment - despite Cain's best efforts to keep it alive. Over the past few days, he's tried hard to contrast himself not only with with political strategists, who have turned choosing a president into "an absurd game," but also with "a troubled woman" whose "false accusations," he claimed, "exceed common sense and certainly the standards of decency in America." 
It's been a problem for a while. First came Cain's catchy 9-9-9 tax plan, which upon closer analysis seemed less like basic common sense than a giant obfuscation intended to benefit the very rich. Next there was that loony web ad featuring Cain's tobacco-compromised campaign manager. Nor should we forget Cain's perplexing claim that China be about to develop nuclear weapons. And at the very least, the sexual harassment allegations against him suggest anything but commonsensical workplace behavior.
And yet, according to many polls, Cain remains at the top of the G.O.P. field. A USA Today Poll conducted November 2-6 shows Romney and Cain in a dead heat. Quinnipiac University's first Swing State Poll of the year, released on Thursday, has Cain in first place among Republican voters in Florida and Ohio and tied with Romney in Pennsylvania. His supporters seem, if anything, energized by the intense media scrutiny of their candidate, ready and eager to turn the story line to Cain's favor. The Des Moines Register, for example, reported that a majority of Cain's Iowan fans are standing by their candidate, casting blame instead on the liberal media for stirring up a story of no consequence and dubious veracity, and reaffirming their faith in Cain's straight-talking ways. Asked to explain his enduring loyalty, Robert Kramer, 70, an Iowan Tea Party supporter, told the Register, "I have nothing against Mitt Romney, but I think Herman Cain has more common sense."
So what do Cain's supporters - and the candidate himself - actually mean when they repeat these seemingly empty claims? Despite his past as a successful Washington lobbyist, Cain entered the arena hoping to make a virtue of his ordinary-guy status. Not for him the self-interested doubletalk of the professional politician or the Washington insider. He similarly rejects the complex and often arcane findings of experts. "Manmade global warming is poppycock," announced the former math and computer science student this summer, dismissing climate change in his characteristic mode as an invention of "scientists who tried to concoct the science" and "were busted because they manipulated the data." 
What Cain promises instead, with all his talk of "common sense solutions," is the practicality and simplicity of the business world, itself imagined not as the realm of Wall Street finance or multinational Fortune 500 companies (both of which Cain also knows up close), but rather as the place where everyday know-how and the logic of the kitchen table prevail. Is the government low on funds? Then it should spend less. The dismissal of "Ubeki-beki-beki-beki-stan-stan"- as Cain famously described a nation of 28 million in an interview with the Christian Broadcasting Network - is a signal that, like anyone else outside the political arena, he knows better than to worry about the pronunciation of such irrelevant places. 
Cain makes it sound as if this were a refreshing change of pace. But it's really only garden-variety populism, a form of pandering and anti-intellectualism that has a long history in America, from Andrew Jackson to Sarah Palin, and which has often been used against comparatively cerebral political opponents, from John Quincy Adams to Barack Obama.
Traditionally, common sense has come in both right and left varieties. Cain's signature accomplishment has been to attach the concept to the full range of contemporary conservative touchstones. In Cain's telling, it is not just business executives and management types who embody "common sense leadership" and "common sense solutions." It is also the Founding Fathers, whose Constitution set forth a limited number of "first principles" to which government should return. Ditto for Cain's own father, a chauffeur in the Jim Crow South, who had little formal education but "a Ph.D. in common sense." 
Even Jesus receives a shout-out from the candidate. In a widely circulated blog posted last year on Red State, Cain casts the son of God as a prophet of contemporary conservatism who "taught without a script" and espoused "common sense parables" that "filled people with promise and compassion, his words forever inspiring"- without the benefit of a universal healthcare system, food stamps, unemployment benefits or any other government program. 
But in the hands of Cain, common sense also signals a second populist theme, one that seems to run directly counter to his deeply partisan and often fiery political message. That is transcendence. Common sense also means those basic principles and assumptions upon which we can all agree - or would agree if we only got all the self-proclaimed experts and professional politicians out of the way. Cain wants us to believe he is espousing nothing more than the everyday wisdom that is the shared property of all genuine Americans, regardless of differences of class, religion, and, most significantly in his case, race. He may be a black man ranting against the government, a position that, history suggests, would likely land him on the political left. But his appeal to nothing more than common sense, when punctuated with humorous quips and blatant "misstatements" delivered in the cadences of a preacher, suggests that Cain refuses to think in today's divisive terms.
The attraction of common sense as the foundation for political wisdom has long been that it says we're all in this together - yet we can figure it out on our own, with only the basic resources we all naturally possess (another of Cain's many self-help books is "C.E.O. of Self: You are in Charge"). And when that happens, we won't need politics any longer. Sounding a populist chord that actually does go all the way back to Paine and 18th-century America, Cain offers up a radical political philosophy and promises it is the self-evident conclusion of a "professional problem solver." Like Paine, he is the ordinary but singular man (and gifted rhetorician) who will finally get us beyond all our great divisions - rich and poor, white and black, right and left - and tell us how to fix a broken system.
Cain will not be our next president. Even without the sexual harassment scandal, he has neither the necessary funds nor the establishment clout. Plus he is profoundly unprepared for the job. But his strong appeal to a large sector of the American electorate is worth considering precisely because it reveals the strange state of populist politics in this moment of economic crisis and anti-government fervor. 
Much of the Republican base remains angry, ready for a fight, and at the same time deeply utopian. Conservative pundits and politicians like Cain have gone a long way toward convincing much of the country that if it fights hard enough now, we might soon be back to first principles - and done with politics once and for all. 

        
How Obama Can Win Ohio Again
        
The Cain Scrutiny
        
Who Believes Herman Cain?
        
The Politics of Austerity
        
Other Stops: Let the Popular Vote Count

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (71%); CELEBRITIES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) Herman Cain; Michele Bachmann; Mitt Romney; Presidential Campaign; Republican Party; Rick Perry; Thomas Paine; Bachmann, Michele M; Beck, Glenn; Cain, Herman; Paine, Thomas; Presidential Election of 2012; Tea Party Movement; United States Economy

COMPANY: COMMON SENSE SOLUTIONS (55%); GODFATHER'S PIZZA INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (55%)

PERSON: HERMAN CAIN (91%); MICHELE BACHMANN (90%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); GLENN BECK (86%); RICK PERRY (72%) Bachmann, Michele M; Beck, Glenn; Cain, Herman; Paine, Thomas

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011



528 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: Equalizing Payments for Medical Care

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: In an &#8220;all payer&#8221; system, all insurers would pay providers the same amount for the same care, ending price discrimination and helping lower the nation&#8217;s health-care costs, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
 3:19 p.m. | Updated to restore missing "not" in a reference to hospital payments.
Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton. He has some financial interests in the health care field. 
For some time now, health policy makers around the world and the analysts who advise them have been exploring reforms of the methods by which the providers of health care are paid or, as the latter prefer to call it, are "reimbursed" - an unfortunate, mind-altering expression on which I have already commented in an earlier post. 
Several papers in the current issue of Health Affairs are devoted to that topic. They include one by me, another by David Miller that addresses large variations in Medicare payments for surgery and one by Peter Hussey about bundled payments for treatments of an entire episode of illness. 
My paper focuses on the fact that every private health insurer in this country pays different physicians, hospitals and other providers of health care different prices for identical services. The flip side of this practice is that a given provider charges different payers - insurers or patients - different prices for identical health service. Economists call that practice "price discrimination."

Figure 1 below illustrates this phenomenon from the insurer's perspective for colonoscopies in New Jersey. Figure 2 shows payments in 2007 by one large private insurer for appendectomies (then code DRG 107) and coronary bypass grafts with cardiac catheterization (code CABG, then DRG 107) in California at what are known as "tertiary hospitals" - those with the ability to support medical specialists in medicine, pediatrics, obstetrics and gynecology, surgery, their subspecialties and ancillary services. 
While there evidently is pervasive price discrimination within the private health-care sector, there are also sizable price differentials between public payers on the one hand and private payers on the other. Figure 3 illustrates this phenomenon by means of the so-called payment-to-cost ratio paid to hospitals by Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurers. This ratio is calculated as a fraction of the full costs that hospitals report to have incurred for patients covered by these three payers. 
We can see that in many years, hospitals report that the two public payers have not covered the full cost (including presumably allocated fixed-overhead costs) of the care for the patients covered by these programs. Private payers, on the other hand, pay a sizable margin on top of the full costs of treating their covered clients. 
Private health insurers and their principals, private employers, deplore this phenomenon as a "cost shift" from public payers to them. Of course, by similar reasoning, private insurers and individual self-paying patients who pay relatively high prices for given services can lament that they are the victims of a cost shift from private insurers with stronger market power vis  vis hospitals, which enables them to bargain for lower prices for identical services.
Many economists do not buy into this contention, asserting that price discrimination can exist without a cost shift. Explaining how economists arrive at that conclusion goes beyond the limit of this post. Interested readers, however, might consult my previously cited paper in Health Affairs, or, if they are not daunted by more formal economic analysis, read Austin Frakt's critique of the cost-shift theory.
Whether or not one accepts the cost-shift premise, the question arises of whether price discrimination in health care has served the United States well. On this point, the business school professors Michael Porter and Elizabeth Teisberg have this to say in their book "Redefining Health Care": 
This administrative complexity of dealing with multiple prices [for the same service] adds costs with no benefit. The dysfunctional competition that has been created by price discrimination far outweighs any short-term advantages individual system participants gain from it, even for those participants who currently enjoy the biggest discounts. The lesson is simple: skewed incentives motivate activities that push costs higher. All these incentives and distortions reinforce zero-sum competition and work against value creation.
Similarly, in commenting critically in The New England Journal of Medicine on another study of administrative costs of Canadian and American health care, Henry Aaron of the Brookings Institution offered this preamble to his critique:
I look at the U.S. health care system and see an administrative monstrosity, a truly bizarre mlange of thousands of payers with payment systems that differ for no socially beneficial reason, as well as staggeringly complex public systems with mind-boggling administered prices and other rules expressing distinctions that can only be regarded as weird.
Other nations with multiple insurance carriers - for example, Germany and Switzerland - avoid price discrimination in health care through negotiations over prices between regional associations of health insurers and counterpart associations of health care providers, subject to some overall budget constraint informed by macroeconomic conditions (e.g., growth of the payroll on which premiums are based or per capita income). The negotiated prices then apply uniformly to all insurers and all providers in a region (states in Germany and cantons in Switzerland). In the United States, Maryland has operated such an "all payer" system for hospitals for several decades. 
An all payer system has the potential to reduce health care costs in several ways, including the discipline of a fee schedule on providers, the schedule to be negotiated with providers on a regional basis, and a reduction in the enormous complexity and high administrative costs of the current system.
If it is desired, an all payer system can also serve as a way to constrain the future growth of health care to some desired path - e.g., with total national health spending growing annually only 0.5 percentage points faster than the growth of the rest of gross the domestic product, rather than the traditional two percentage points faster that prevailed over the last four decades. A two percentage point differential is simply not sustainable.
In my above-cited paper, I advocate an all payer system for the United States to eliminate the pervasive price discrimination inherent in American health care and, to the extent it exists, the much-lamented cost shift. For readers of this blog, Health Affairs has graciously provided access to the paper until Nov. 16. I invite readers to take a look at my argument for an all-payer approach and share with us their reaction to it.
Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this post omitted the word "not" from the following sentence: "We can see that in many years, hospitals report that the two public payers have not covered the full cost (including presumably allocated fixed-overhead costs) of the care for the patients covered by these programs."

        
Shocked, Shocked, Over Hospital Bills
        
Reader Response: Medicare Options and Quality of Care
        
The Complexities of Comparing Medicare Choices
        
Medicare Spending Isn't Out of Control
        
The Fork in the Road for Health Care

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); PRICE DISCRIMINATION (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (77%); HEART DISEASE (74%); MEDICARE (74%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (73%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (73%); ENDOSCOPY (66%); MEDICAID (58%) Health Affairs; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Health Affairs

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2013



529 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Happy to Call the City Home, More Now Move In Than Out

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Juan Rosales had tired of his predictable life in Chicago, where he worked in City Hall. ''I had reached a point in my life when I, essentially, wanted to reboot and start over,'' Mr. Rosales said, ''and wanted to do so in a city that would make such a big decision worth the risk.''
So two years ago, Mr. Rosales, 33, moved to New York City, and after a tough first year of hunting for a job and draining his savings, he is now a planner for the city's Education Department. ''I have found love, new friends, a new job, and a whole new world to explore and grow in,'' he said. 
For Mr. Rosales and many others, New York, even in the midst of an ailing economy, has become an irresistible magnet, producing a benchmark demographic shift.
For the first time in several decades, more people moved to the city last year than left it, according to census data.
While much of the city's population growth in recent years has been fueled by the influx of immigrants and more people being born than dying, there have been new waves of arrivals from other parts of the country and fewer New Yorkers leaving. In 2010, 252,000 people moved to New York -- 157,000 from elsewhere in the country -- while 220,000 left, according to the Census Bureau's American Community Survey. That contrasts sharply with 2006, when 230,000 arrived and 341,000 left.
The economy has been a factor in the movement in both directions. Some people coming to New York are economic refugees from places, like the Rust Belt and the Southwest, hit worse by the recession and still struggling to recover. For those people, New York offers a chance to start over.
In 2010, as an example, more people moved to the city from California, Minnesota, New Hampshire and Oregon than left the city for those states -- reversing a trend.
Meanwhile, some New Yorkers find themselves stuck here, unable to sell their homes in a depressed real estate market. In past recessions, by contrast, many New Yorkers fled to other parts of the country, particularly the Sun Belt, where real estate was cheap and job opportunities abundant.
New Yorkers are also moving to the suburbs in smaller numbers than in the past as the lure of owning a home has lost some of its appeal.
Compared with 2006, the number of New York City residents moving to Florida last year fell by 40 percent, to 53,000; the number to Georgia plunged 56 percent, to 12,000; the number to New Jersey fell by 33 percent, to 40,000; and the number to Pennsylvania declined by 32 percent, to 31,000.
''The city's migration uptick in the last year is most certainly related to the mortgage meltdown, which has stifled movement to the suburbs of potential homeowners and the broader recession, which has put a damper on Sun Belt migration,'' said William H. Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution.
Erin Laviola, 23, moved to New York from Ohio during the summer after graduating from journalism school and has worked at a bar and as a $9-an-hour clothing saleswoman while searching for a television broadcasting job.
''Walking through Times Square is usually a pick-me-up, because it reminds me that I came here to pursue a dream,'' Ms. Laviola said. ''I've always wanted to be a producer for a major TV network and work on stories that affect a large number of people. Even if I fail at reaching that dream, I wanted to at least be able to say that I tried. I didn't just dream it, I went after it.''
Indeed, despite its many challenges, especially the high cost of living here, New York retains an undeniable pull. After graduating from Cornell, Randee Mia Berman attended Columbia and moved to Greenwich Village in 1981. She hopes to remain in the city even after her landlord recently raised the rent 60 percent for her basement apartment.
''I'm still addicted and not leaving New York City,'' said Ms. Berman, who works for the state government. ''I host an Internet radio show, 'Mia's World,' from a local restaurant in Greenwich Village, and nothing compares to the beat of New York City.''
Pinpointing when people arrived in New York and when they left is difficult because of how the Census Bureau has tried to quantify such migration. In the last decade, the bureau's annual American Community Survey asked respondents where they had lived the year before. Before that, the decennial census asked people where they had lived five years earlier. By that measure, more people had been leaving the city than arriving for at least a half-century.
Michael Anatole left New York not once, not twice, but three times and has always come back.
''I finally had to surrender that there is no other place I'd rather live than my hometown,'' said Mr. Anatole, 47, an information technology consultant who grew up in Brooklyn. ''I understand it and it understands me.''
''Culturally I could not adjust to other cities,'' added Mr. Anatole, who tried making a new life in Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington. ''Other cities maintain that they are 'a city of neighborhoods.' Have they ever been to Brooklyn? How is it I can live in an area such as Sunset Park and not hear a word of English and feel right at home?
''I am a first-generation American of Caribbean descent. The word 'home' has an almost mystical, spiritual connotation for us. New York City is home. I can travel, but as soon as I see the skyline, I am home.''
Others were equally unequivocal. ''I was lucky enough to be born in New York City,'' said Dr. Ira Leviton, 52, who lives on the Upper West Side, ''and I've stayed because it's the most fascinating place in the world, the easiest to get around thanks to its public transportation, and there's more to do -- and more things to do -- than any place else.''
''I'll leave as soon as I'm done seeing all of it,'' he said, ''but that probably won't happen for a few hundred years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DR. IRA LEVITON: Professor at Albert Einstein College of Medicine (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEATRICE DE GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 MICHAEL ANATOLE: Information technology consultant (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: Bigger Apple: More people moved to New York City than left last year, according to census data, a reversal in net migration. (Source: Census Bureau, via Queens College)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); CENSUS (74%); TRENDS (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); REFUGEES (67%); IMMIGRATION (66%); SUBURBS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



530 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Woes Pose New Peril To U.S. Growth

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- For the second time in two years, European debt troubles threaten to slow the momentum of the fragile recovery in the United States.
Although American financial institutions have taken steps to protect themselves from Europe's long-simmering problems, the likely slowdown in Europe could damage consumer and business confidence in America and strengthen the dollar, making United States exports less competitive.
''Financial contagion can lead to the very rapid global spread of recession,'' said Chris Varvares, senior managing director for Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting company. ''If trouble intensifies and spills over to equities and other U.S. risk assets, we could see a soft patch.''
Economists say Europe's troubles would need to worsen significantly before putting the United States economy, which has been strengthening lately, at risk of a new recession. 
The European Union and United States economies are the two biggest in the world and their financial institutions are deeply intertwined. They have the single largest bilateral trade relationship, together accounting for nearly a third of global trade flows.
On Thursday, the European Commission announced that it foresaw little or no growth in the European Union in the fourth quarter of the year, and a slight 0.1 percent contraction for the euro zone, the 17 countries using the euro currency. It forecast a scant 0.5 percent annual growth in 2012 for the union and warned that the Continent might be slipping into a ''deep and prolonged'' recession. As recently as this spring, the commission forecast that Europe would grow 1.75 percent for 2012.
Speaking on Thursday at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit meeting in Hawaii, the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, said: ''The crisis in Europe remains the central challenge to global growth. It is crucial that Europe move quickly to put in place a strong plan to restore financial stability.''
He added, ''We are all directly affected by the crisis in Europe.''
United States financial institutions have tried to inoculate themselves by drastically cutting risk to the euro zone debt markets, partly in response to urging from policy makers. For instance, prime money-market funds -- a common and higher-yielding alternative to bank deposits, and the site of a freeze in the financial markets in October 2008 -- have reduced their exposure to euro zone banks by more than half since May, according to a JPMorgan analysis released this week. ''Most prime fund managers are allowing existing euro zone exposures to run off,'' the analysts wrote.
But these measures may not be enough in the event of a bank failure or bond market panic, which could have broad and unpredictable effects on global markets.
''I don't think we'd be able to escape the consequences of a blow-up in Europe,'' Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said Thursday in Texas while answering questions after a speech.
Even with the recent moves, the United States financial system still has billions at risk to European institutions.
In an extensive report to lawmakers in September, the Congressional Research Service estimated that the exposure of banks to Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, and Spain -- some of the most heavily indebted euro zone economies -- amounted to $641 billion. It added, ''a collapse of a major European bank could produce similar problems in U.S. institutions.''
It further estimated American banks' exposure to German and French banks at in ''excess of'' $1.2 trillion, equivalent to about 10 percent of total commercial banking assets in the United States. Similarly, the Bank for International Settlements reports that at midyear banks in the United States had $757 billion in derivatives contracts and $650 billion in credit commitments from European banks.
''Europe is very clearly in a Bear Stearns environment,'' said Stephen Wood, chief market strategist at Russell Investments, referring to the investment bank that collapsed in early 2008 without setting off broader financial panic.
''The question is: 'Do they get to a Lehman environment?' They're not there yet, but the dark clouds are beginning to gather. Right now, we're seeing the U.S. dollar and U.S. markets benefiting, relatively, as safe havens,'' Mr. Wood said. ''But that wild card, that sword of Damocles, is going to be what the capital market implications are if there is a major credit event in Europe.''
Because Europe's troubles have been developing for more than two years, financial firms have had more time to prepare than they did for the 2008 crisis, when the collapse of Lehman Brothers almost caused credit markets to freeze. This preparation could prevent a repeat of the 2008 global crisis, even if the European troubles deepen.
Still, the woes in the euro zone will probably weigh on the broader American economy, economists say. Consumer confidence has nearly returned to its lows during the worst of the recession and financial crisis, in late 2008 and early 2009.
''If stock prices start falling, consumers are likely to cut back on spending, which would be sufficient to grind the recovery to a halt,'' said Ryan Sweet, a senior economist at Moody's Analytics. ''And business confidence is very fragile. Any weight on confidence could hurt hiring and lift the unemployment rate.''
Europe's troubles, including the possibility that the euro zone could break up, has caused the dollar to rally against the euro, which makes American exports more costly. On Wednesday, the euro hit a one-month low against the dollar before recovering slightly by the end of the week.
For the euro, ''the downside risk is considerable and the current level doesn't do a great job of exhibiting the extent of risk there,'' says Omer Esiner, chief market analyst at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange in Washington. ''I'd argue there's a lot more risk'' that dollar-denominated goods will become relatively expensive.
In an interview Thursday with Reuters, John E. Bryson, the commerce secretary, said, ''We've had such strong exports to Europe and now, with the European financial crisis, those will come down, appear to be coming down.''
In the last few weeks, several companies with major European operations have lowered earnings forecasts because of the tumult. In a research note this week, Tobias Levkovich, Citigroup's chief equity strategist, called some falling early sales indicators a ''worrisome sign'' for companies with significant business in Europe. Such companies include General Electric and McDonald's. The most at-risk sectors included auto components and automobile companies, which generate nearly 30 percent of their sales in Europe, as well as food and tobacco firms.
General Motors said Wednesday that it expected to go into the red in the region this year. Daniel F. Akerson, the chief executive of G.M., blamed the European ''morass'' for a lowered outlook.
In light of the risk the European crisis poses to the United States, policy makers have urged Europe to deal with the issues immediately.
Mr. Geithner said Thursday that European leaders had developed a ''good framework'' for dealing with the crisis late last month.
''But we need to see it put in place with the speed that markets require and with the force that restores confidence,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Timothy F. Geithner, center left, and Mario Draghi, right, the European Central Bank president, with others in Cannes, France. (POOL PHOTO BY TOBY MELVILLE) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); RECESSION (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); BOND MARKETS (65%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



531 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: City Opera's Growth Plan Is Dependent On Donors

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
When New York City Opera faced a financial emergency early this year, its leadership promised to overhaul finances and live firmly within the company's means. Last spring City Opera even decided to move out of its prestigious home at Lincoln Center to save money. But an internal planning document that lists a creeping deficit shows how hard it is to stick to such intentions in the costly world of opera.
The document, which was provided this week by the orchestra's union, also outlines a strategy of overwhelming reliance on donated income for many years to come, even if City Opera manages to increase its number of full productions, which this season total four, in 16 performances. 
This season's budget is $13.3 million, with a projected deficit of $400,000, according to the document. George Steel, City Opera's general manager and artistic director, said that budgeting was still in flux and that the deficit would be eliminated, once a final budget was approved. He also said contract talks with the company's unions were to blame for more than half of the deficit on paper, because of unplanned health insurance costs for unionized employees as the negotiations drag on.
''It would be irresponsible to report that City Opera's planning a deficit,'' he said in an interview on Friday. ''That's inaccurate.''
The document, titled ''Plan for Phased Growth,'' lays out a vision of gradually increasing productions, arriving at 10, with 40 performances. Under the most conservative predicted growth rate in unearned revenue -- 5 percent a year -- the company would reach the 10-production benchmark by 2025. At 10 percent growth a year, the date would be 2019; at 15 percent, 2017.
''Even 5 percent in this economy is an achievement,'' Mr. Steel acknowledged, ''but we've done better in the past.''
The budget would arrive at about $25 million. At its peak in the last decade, the budget was $46 million, and performances numbered roughly 100.
Mr. Steel has long said that he views the company's optimal number of productions as 8 to 10. He acknowledged that getting there was taking longer than expected.
''Our central priority is to stabilize the company,'' he said. Mr. Steel said 45 percent of donated income this season had been received or had come in the form of solid pledges. The company's fund-raisers have identified sources for all but $500,000 of the remaining amount needed, he said.
Only about 10 percent of revenue this season is predicted to come from the box office, with the rest mainly provided by donors. The ratio does not change much over the phased growth plan, meaning that only $1 or $1.50 out of $10 will come from ticket purchases.
The company and its two main unions, one representing the orchestra and the other representing the chorus, singers and stage managers, are engaged in contract talks. The unions bitterly opposed the move out of the David H. Koch Theater at Lincoln Center and are fighting efforts by City Opera to turn the orchestra and chorus into essentially freelance jobs. Company members also criticize Mr. Steel for what they consider his failure to mount productions that would sell more tickets.
Mr. Steel defends his model, saying too many opera performances -- because of the high costs and City Opera's mission to provide relatively inexpensive tickets -- can end up eroding the bottom line at an unsustainable rate.
''To look to ticket revenue as an indicator is looking in the wrong place,'' he said. ''The thing that drives our ability to grow is the ability to raise money.''
On Nov. 4 the unions made a contract proposal under which they would perform free this season in exchange for a say in management and future programming. Alan Gordon, the executive director of the American Guild of Musical Artists, which represents the singers and stage managers, said working free was ''anathema, but it's a last-ditch alternative to a management plan that would drive City Opera out of existence.''
The company rejected that offer, saying that cost savings would be minimal, given that it still had to pay for rehearsals and health care. It also said the proposal would violate labor law.
City Opera's season opens on Thursday with a concert by the singer and songwriter Rufus Wainwright and others performing his songs at the Rose Theater. Opera performances begin in February and will take place at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, the Gerald W. Lynch Theater at John Jay College and the theater at El Museo del Barrio.
Mr. Steel has said that he wants to take opera to people in other parts of the city and to find smaller spaces more suitable for some works.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George Steel, general manager and artistic director of City Opera. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); BUDGET FORECASTS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); FUNDRAISING (70%); APPROVALS (69%); TICKET SALES (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (51%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



532 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (HBO) THE CHRONICLES OF NARNIA: THE VOYAGE OF THE DAWN TREADER (2010) Lucy Pevensie (Georgie Henley, above, with the lion Aslan) and her brother, Edmund (Skandar Keynes), joined by their chatterbox cousin Eustace Scrubb (Will Poulter), are lured back into Narnia by a maritime painting that turns into a Niagara Falls, sweeping the children out to sea in this franchise's third installment, directed by Michael Apted. Soon they've been rescued by their old comrade in arms, King Caspian (Ben Barnes), and brought aboard his ship, now armed with a crew of clean-cut men and talking beasts, including a mouse-kateer named Reepicheep (voiced by Simon Pegg). ''Though there are times when the movie turns into a congested mess, as in a climactic battle that washes the screen in gray, there are moments when you also see a quieter, less industrial production,'' Manohla Dargis wrote in The New York Times. ''Such is the case after Eustace is turned into a grand, ungainly, unhappy dragon. When he lies forlornly on a beach, or as forlornly as dragons do, and a monstrous-size tear slides down his scaly face, you don't just see the wizardry magic, you also see the human touch behind it.'' 
10:30 A.M. (13) RELIGION & ETHICS NEWSWEEKLY Lucky Severson reports from the United States Army Chaplain Center and School at Fort Jackson, S.C., where counseling is available to help members of the clergy.
NOON (13) RICHARD HEFFNER'S OPEN MIND Ira Millstein, a senior partner at the law firm Weil, Gotshal & Manges in New York, continues his analysis of the country's financial crisis, including what he describes as ''short-termism,'' the failure to value long-run growth over immediate gains.
8 P.M. (CBS) A SOUTH CAROLINA REPUBLICAN DEBATE Scott Pelley, the anchor and managing editor of the ''CBS Evening News,'' and Major Garrett, the congressional correspondent for National Journal, will moderate this debate focusing on national security and foreign policy, hosted by Wofford College in Spartanburg, S.C.
8 P.M. (Logo) OUTRAGE (2009) Kirby Dick uses previously classified documents, court testimony, audio tapes and interviews in this documentary to question whether some elected officials who have bolstered their reputations through antigay legislation are secretly homosexual themselves.
8 P.M. (Lifetime) WE HAVE YOUR HUSBAND (2011) In this adaptation of a real-life story, Teri Polo plays Jayne Valseca, the American-born wife of Eduardo (Esai Morales), the son of a newspaper publisher who, in the summer of 2007, was kidnapped from the couple's ranch in Mexico and held for millions of dollars in ransom. Then Jayne started making demands of her own.
9 P.M. (Starz) BATTLE: LOS ANGELES (2011) Aaron Eckhart, right, stars as Staff Sgt. Michael Nantz, who has just filed his retirement papers after a 20-year career, only to find himself part of a band of Marines fending off aliens that have staged a blitzkrieg from the waters off the Santa Monica beaches. ''As the 'Saturday Night Live' parody version of Miley Cyrus might say: pretty cool,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The Times -- until Act III, that is, when this ''reveals itself to be a lousy movie.''
9 P.M. (Investigation Discovery) GONE: THE DISAPPEARANCE OF AERYN GILLERN (2011) On Oct. 31, 2007, Kathy Gilleran, a retired policewoman from upstate New York, received a call from Vienna that her 34-year-old son, Aeryn, an employee of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization and a former Mr. Gay Austria, was missing. Ms. Gilleran (who uses the original spelling of her family surname) went in search of her son, encountering a homophobic police force, language barriers and suspicious circumstances. Eventually, Mr. Gillern's disappearance was ruled a suicide, but no corpse was recovered. In this documentary, which was shown at the Tribeca Film Festival, the filmmakers Gretchen and John Morning follow Ms. Gilleran's trail.
9 P.M. (BBC America) PRIMEVAL Dark secrets begin to surface in this sci-fi series's fifth season, pushing relationships to the brink. In ''The Graham Norton Show,'' at 10, Mr. Norton chats up Johnny Depp, Ricky Gervais, Carey Mulligan and Ed Byrne. Snow Patrol performs.
10 P.M. (Animal Planet) PIT BULLS & PAROLEES Six paroled felons find redemption caring for 200 pit bulls at the Villalobos Rescue Center in Canyon Country, Calif., where man and dog help each other rebuild their lives. Tia Maria Torres oversees them all and, in this Season 3 premiere, a move to a new building.
11:30 P.M. (NBC) SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE Emma Stone hosts for a second time. Coldplay performs. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY FOX 2000 PICTURES AND WALDEN MEDIA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); BEACHES (71%); ETHICS (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); LEGISLATION (68%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (68%); LAWYERS (68%); ARMIES (67%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (67%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (66%); POLITICAL DEBATES (66%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (64%); RELIGION (64%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (53%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (68%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



533 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: High Yield, With Caveats

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
These days, the odds of finding a savings account that carries a 5.1 percent interest rate are almost as good as your chances of, say, stumbling across a pot of gold.
But such an account does indeed exist, with some caveats: it's attached to the new Union Plus prepaid card, which is available to members of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which represents more than 12 million union members. But any worker can join Working America, an affiliate of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., to get access to the program.
There's another catch: the attractive interest rate only applies to the first $5,000 of savings. Anything above that amount will earn 0.10 percent. Still, the entire package compares favorably with many other prepaid cards on the market, which are known for charging fees at every turn. 
''We wanted to create a debit card for working America,'' said Leslie Tolf, president of Union Privilege, the consumer benefits arm of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''We are trying to avoid, as Elizabeth Warren would say, the 'tricks and traps' of bank fees.''
But that doesn't mean it's completely free of fees.
Users can avoid the $2 monthly maintenance fee if they use direct deposit to load the card (and Ms. Tolf said users have the option of loading only a portion of their paycheck). You can also escape the fee if you had at least $500 on the card the month before, which you can also load for free via PayPal or a bank account.
You can put cash on the card, too, but it will cost you $4.95 each time. To do that, you need to buy a GreenDot MoneyPak at a retailer that sells them. Withdrawing cash from an A.T.M. costs $1.50 (plus anything the bank providing A.T.M. charges), while a balance inquiry costs 50 cents. But cardholders can retrieve cash at no charge at certain retailers.
Meanwhile, there are no activation charges, inactivity fees or any charges to make a purchase. And you can pay bills through their Web site, but it will cost you $1 for each transaction. Using the card outside the United States, meanwhile, will cost 2 percent of the transaction amount.
The savings account is fully insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. And a spokesman for Rev Worldwide, the processor and distributor of the card, says that the 5.1 percent interest rate is not an introductory offer. It is subject to fluctuation, as with any interest rate, but he said that there are no plans to make changes anytime soon. Let's hope it stays that way.
Ms. Tolf said that members can use the savings account as a personal Christmas club savings program, or simply use the card for day-to-day transactions.
When it comes to fraud, she said that cardholders are only responsible for up to $25 if someone managed to figure out their PIN and use the card.
If you'd like to open up an account but are not a member of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., you can join Working America. You will be required to make a donation to the cause, though it can be for as much or as little as you wish, and you are only obliged to donate once.
What do you think of the new prepaid card and its savings account?
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); PREPAID CARDS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); DEBIT CARDS (73%); RETAILERS (72%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (71%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (62%); PAYPAL INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (62%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (62%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



534 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
U.N. OFFICIALS ACCUSE SUDAN
OF BOMBING CIVILIAN CAMP
Senior United Nations officials sided with newly independent South Sudan in accusing Sudan of bombing a southern civilian encampment. One United Nations official called for an investigation, suggesting a war crime may have been committed. Page A4
CHINA RULES FOR REPORTING 
Chinese authorities announced tighter regulations governing journalists, one of several recent actions aimed at controlling rumors and diluting the influence of the nation's growing microblogs. Page A7
DISSIDENT TO FIGHT TAX DEBT
Ai Weiwei, the artist and political dissident, has decided to contest an unpaid tax assessment of about $2.4 million that is due, and he will use donations from thousands of Chinese supporters for the appeal, Mr. Ai's wife said. Page A7
SYRIANS PROTEST VIOLATIONS
Thousands of Syrians took to the streets, urging the Arab League to suspend the membership of the Syrian government, which they say has violated an initiative the league brokered to end the armed crackdown on the political uprising. Page A9
YEMEN FORCES KILL CIVILIANS
Yemeni government forces attacked protesters and residential areas in the southern city of Taiz, killing at least 15 civilians and wounding dozens of others, residents said. Page A9
JAPAN TO JOIN TRADE TALKS
In a contentious move that could make or break his government, Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda said that Japan would join talks toward an ambitious pan-Pacific free trade pact. Page A6
National
TREASURED HUNTING GROUNDS
NOW DRILLED FOR NATURAL GAS
Some of Pennsylvania's most prized hunting grounds lie atop the Marcellus Shale, a vast reserve of natural gas. Nine wells have cropped up on this land of roughly 7,000 wooded acres in Potter County, and permits have been issued for 19 more. Page A12
SOME SUPPORT DRY SUNDAYS
After years of debating whether to do away with a law that banned selling alcohol on Sundays, Georgia politicians decided to let the people vote. The results were resounding: 105 chose to end the restriction, but 22 did not. Page A12
INMATE SUES OVER SOY DIET
One too many bouts of flatulence and cramping has prompted a Florida inmate to sue the Department of Corrections, arguing that the prison's soy-based turkey dogs and sloppy Joes amount to cruel and unusual punishment. Page A13
New York
YANKEES MAKING HEADLINES
AWAY FROM THE DIAMOND
The Yankees have long been famous for making news, even in the off-season. But lately, the team has been turning up in unlikely places outside the sports pages: Indictments. Testimony. Transcripts. Ethics rulings. Page A16
Obituaries
HENRY D. OWEN, 91
He was an influential diplomat who helped institutionalize global economic summitry in the 1970s and who was considered an intellectual framer of the elite round table known as the Trilateral Commission. Page A20
Business
FUTURE FARMERS OF AMERICA
WORKS TO EXPAND ITS SCOPEhttp://cms.em.nytimes.com/content/edit/article/article!bodyText?contentId=100000001167584
Although the nation has shifted ever further from its agrarian roots, the Future Farmers of America is thriving. Begun 83 years ago and now known simply as the F.F.A., it is the largest vocational student group in the country, with more than half a million members and still growing by adding fields like genetics and logistics. Page B1
A PUSH TO BUY MOVIES
Desperate to raise home entertainment profits, studios want people to start buying movies outright again, either digitally or on little silver discs. Many of them are backing a free service that will allow people to buy a movie once and watch it anywhere, on a computer, mobile device or Web-ready TV. Page B1
BP WINS SUIT IN SIBERIA
BP won the backing of a Siberian court in its battle against $16 billion in claims brought by a minority shareholder in TNK-BP, the oil company's Russian joint venture. Page B4
1,000 LAID OFF AT MF GLOBAL
The court-appointed trustee overseeing the liquidation of MF Global's brokerage unit laid off 1,066 employees, the biggest wave of job cuts at the firm since it filed for bankruptcy. Page B6
Sports
COLLEGE BASKETBALL RIVALS
MEET ON A NEW BATTLEFIELD
The premise seemed closer to fiction than reality: holding a basketball game on an aircraft carrier. North Carolina and Michigan State kicked off their respective seasons on the deck of a 95,000-ton, Nimitz-class aircraft carrier, from which fighter jets normally scream into the sky. Page B9
Arts
A NEW MUSEUM IN FRANCE
BRINGS THE GREAT WAR HOME
The newly opened Museum of the Great War in Meaux, France, bears a considerable historical burden, writes Edward Rothstein. It is on the site of the Battle of the Marne, where war was waged against the German army. Its attempt to chronicle the war is not an abstract project: this was not just a world war, it was a local war. Page C1
OP-ED
Joe Nocera PAGE A19
Charles M. Blow PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ETHICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INDICTMENTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); POLITICS (75%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); WAR CRIMES (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (66%); PRISONS (66%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); CRUEL & UNUSUAL PUNISHMENT (61%); TRANSCRIPTS (60%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (56%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%)

PERSON: YOSHIHIKO NODA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIZ, YEMEN (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); SYRIA (93%); YEMEN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



535 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA DECODER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Advertising: Two Units of MDC Partners Are Merging

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Two smaller advertising agencies owned by MDC Partners are merging to form a single agency with offices on the East and West Coasts.
The agencies are Skinny, founded in New York in 2008, and Vitro, which was known as Vitro Robertson when it opened in San Diego in 1992. 
The agencies will be combined under the Vitro name and the principals of the new Vitro will be based in San Diego and New York.
The merger is indicative of efforts by agencies to seek more efficient and effective ways to operate in a challenging economy.
For instance, twice last year, MDC merged smaller agencies into larger ones. One merger gave a New York agency, Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners, an office in Atlanta; another provided a Toronto office for Crispin Porter & Bogusky, which is based in Miami and Boulder, Colo.
''The most important thing in this merger is that we can go after bigger and better'' accounts, said Jonas Hallberg, a chief creative officer at Skinny, who becomes a chief creative officer at the merged Vitro.
Skinny has not prevailed in some account reviews because the potential clients said ''we're small and don't have a two-coast presence,'' he added. ''Now, we will be a true contender.''
Tom Sullivan, a principal at Vitro who becomes chief executive of the new Vitro, said his agency had often been told by advertisers on the East Coast ''that they don't want to talk to a California shop.''
''When we asked them what do we need to do to get to the next level,'' he added, they replied, ''Scale.''
All the employees of Vitro and Skinny, and all the clients, will be part of the new Vitro, the principals said.
Skinny had more than 20 employees and the premerger Vitro had more than 80, giving the combined agency more than 100 employees.
The clients for the merged Vitro will include Asics, from the previous Vitro; P. F. Chang's China Bistro, also from the previous Vitro; Diageo, from Skinny; Newcastle Brown Ale, from the previous Vitro; Nokia, from Skinny; Target, from Skinny; and Wired, from Skinny.
It is safe to say that the addition of Skinny's resources will help Vitro as it seeks to keep the Asics account in a review that Asics announced recently.
The other principals of the merged Vitro are: John Vitro, executive creative director of the previous Vitro, who is creative chairman; and Liron Reznik, a chief creative officer at Skinny, who remains a chief creative officer.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (87%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%)

COMPANY: MDC PARTNERS INC (90%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (70%); P F CHANG'S CHINA BISTRO INC (63%); DIAGEO PLC (52%)

TICKER: MDZ.A (TSX) (90%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (90%); DGE (PAR) (52%); DGE (LSE) (52%); DEO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (90%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (90%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (63%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (63%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (52%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (52%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (52%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); WEST USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



536 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2490 words

HEADLINE: Rich Subsidies Powering Solar and Wind Projects

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON and CLIFFORD KRAUSS; Eric Lipton reported from Washington and Clifford Krauss from Houston.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Halfway between Los Angeles and San Francisco, on a former cattle ranch and gypsum mine, NRG Energy is building an engineering marvel: a compound of nearly a million solar panels that will produce enough electricity to power about 100,000 homes.
The project is also a marvel in another, less obvious way: Taxpayers and ratepayers are providing subsidies worth almost as much as the entire $1.6 billion cost of the project. Similar subsidy packages have been given to 15 other solar- and wind-power electric plants since 2009.
The government support -- which includes loan guarantees, cash grants and contracts that require electric customers to pay higher rates -- largely eliminated the risk to the private investors and almost guaranteed them large profits for years to come. The beneficiaries include financial firms like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, conglomerates like General Electric, utilities like Exelon and NRG -- even Google.
A great deal of attention has been focused on Solyndra, a start-up that received $528 million in federal loans to develop cutting-edge solar technology before it went bankrupt, but nearly 90 percent of the $16 billion in clean-energy loans guaranteed by the federal government since 2009 went to subsidize these lower-risk power plants, which in many cases were backed by big companies with vast resources. 
When the Obama administration and Congress expanded the clean-energy incentives in 2009, a gold-rush mentality took over.
As NRG's chief executive, David W. Crane, put it to Wall Street analysts early this year, the government's largess was a once-in-a-generation opportunity, and ''we intend to do as much of this business as we can get our hands on.'' NRG, along with partners, ultimately secured $5.2 billion in federal loan guarantees plus hundreds of millions in other subsidies for four large solar projects.
''I have never seen anything that I have had to do in my 20 years in the power industry that involved less risk than these projects,'' he said in a recent interview. ''It is just filling the desert with panels.''
From 2007 to 2010, federal subsidies jumped to $14.7 billion from $5.1 billion, according to a recent study.
Most of the surge came from the economic stimulus bill, which was passed in 2009 and financed an Energy Department loan guarantee program and a separate Treasury Department grant program that were promoted as important in creating green jobs.
States like California sweetened the pot by offering their own tax breaks and by approving long-term power-purchase contracts that, while promoting clean energy, will also require ratepayers to pay billions of dollars more for electricity for as long as two decades. The federal loan guarantee program expired on Sept. 30. The Treasury grant program is scheduled to expire at the end of December, although the energy industry is lobbying Congress to extend it. But other subsidies will remain.
The windfall for the industry over the last three years raises questions of whether the Obama administration and state governments went too far in their support of solar and wind power projects, some of which would have been built anyway, according to the companies involved.
Obama administration officials argue that the incentives, which began on a large scale late in the Bush administration but were expanded by the stimulus legislation, make economic and environmental sense. Beyond the short-term increase in construction hiring, they say, the cleaner air and lower carbon emissions will benefit the country for decades.
''Subsidies and government support have been part of many key industries in U.S. history -- railroads, oil, gas and coal, aviation,'' said Damien LaVera, an Energy Department spokesman.
A Case Study
NRG's California Valley Solar Ranch project is a case study in the banquet of government subsidies available to the owners of a renewable-energy plant.
The first subsidy is for construction. The plant is expected to cost $1.6 billion to build, with key components made by SunPower at factories in California and Asia. In late September, the Energy Department agreed to guarantee a $1.2 billion construction loan, with the Treasury Department lending the money at an exceptionally low interest rate of about 3.5 percent, compared with the 7 percent that executives said they would otherwise have had to pay.
That support alone is worth about $205 million to NRG over the life of the loan, according to an analysis performed for The New York Times by Booz & Company, a strategic consulting firm that regularly performs such studies for private investors.
When construction is complete, NRG is eligible to receive a $430 million check from the Treasury Department -- part of a change made in 2009 that allows clean-energy projects to receive 30 percent of their cost as a cash grant upfront instead of taking other tax breaks gradually over several years.
Californians are also making a big contribution. Under a state law passed to encourage the construction of more solar projects, NRG will not have to pay property taxes to San Luis Obispo County on its solar panels, saving it an estimated $14 million a year.
Assisted by another state law, which mandates that California utilities buy 33 percent of their power from clean-energy sources by 2020, the project's developers struck lucrative contracts with the local utility, Pacific Gas & Electric, to buy the plant's power for 25 years.
P.G.& E., and ultimately its electric customers, will pay NRG $150 to $180 a megawatt-hour, according to a person familiar with the project, who asked not to be identified because the price information was confidential. At the time the contract was awarded, that was about 50 percent more than the expected market cost of electricity in California from a newly built gas-powered plant, state officials said.
While neither state regulators nor the companies will divulge all the details, the extra cost to ratepayers amounts to a $462 million subsidy, according to Booz, which calculated the present value of the higher rates over the life of the contracts.
Additional depreciation tax breaks for renewable energy plants could save the company an additional $110 million, according to Christopher Dann, the Booz analyst who examined the project.
The total value of all those subsidies in today's dollars is about $1.4 billion, leading to an expected rate of return of 25 percent for the project's equity investors, according to Booz.
Mr. Crane of NRG disputed the Booz estimate, saying that the company's return on equity was ''in the midteens.''
NRG, which initially is investing about $400 million of its own money in the project, expects to get all of its equity back in two to five years, according to a statement it made in August to Wall Street analysts.
By 2015, NRG expects earnings of at least $300 million a year before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization from all of its solar projects combined, making these investments some of the more lucrative pieces in its sprawling portfolio, which includes dozens of power plants fueled by coal, natural gas and oil.
NRG is not the only company gobbling up subsidies. At least 10 of the 16 solar or wind electricity generation projects that secured Energy Department loan guarantees intend to also take the Treasury Department grant, and all but two of the projects have long-term agreements to sell almost all of their power, according to a survey of the companies by The Times.
These projects, in almost all cases, benefit from legislation that has been passed in about 30 states that pushes local utility companies to buy a significant share of their power from renewable sources, like solar or wind power. These mandates often have resulted in contracts with above-market rates for the project developers, and a guarantee of a steady revenue stream.
''It is like building a hotel, where you know in advance you are going to have 100 percent room occupancy for 25 years,'' said Kevin Smith, chief executive of SolarReserve. His Nevada solar project has secured a 25-year power-purchase agreement with the state's largest utility and a $737 million Energy Department loan guarantee and is on track to receive a $200 million Treasury grant.
Because the purchase mandates can drive up electricity rates significantly, some states, including New Jersey and Colorado, are considering softening the requirements on utilities.
Brookfield Asset Management, a giant Canadian investment firm, will receive so many subsidies for a New Hampshire wind farm that they are worth 46 percent to 80 percent of the $229 million price of the project, when measured in today's dollars, according to analyses for The Times performed by Booz and two other two industry financial experts. (The wide range reflects a disagreement between the experts on the future price of electricity in New Hampshire.)
Richard Legault, the chief executive of Brookfield Renewable Power, the division that oversees the Granite Reliable project in New Hampshire, declined to discuss his profit expectations in detail, but said the project might not have happened without government assistance.
''When everything has come together, it is a good investment for Brookfield, it is no doubt,'' Mr. Legault said. ''We are quite happy with it.'' (Brookfield is also the owner of the small park in Manhattan that is home to the Occupy Wall Street protesters.)
Even companies whose business has little to do with energy or finance, like the Internet giant Google, benefit from the public subsidies. Google has invested in several renewable energy projects, including a giant solar plant in the California desert and a wind farm in Oregon, in part to get federal tax breaks that it can use to offset its profits from Web advertising.
Industry executives and other supporters of the subsidies say that the public money was vital to the projects, in part because financing for renewable energy projects dried up during the recession. They also note that more traditional energy sectors, like oil and natural gas, get heavy subsidies of their own. For example, in the 2010 fiscal year, the oil and gas producers got federal tax breaks of $2.7 billion, according to an analysis by the Energy Information Administration.
''These programs just level the playing field for what oil and gas and nuclear industries have enjoyed for the last 50 years,'' said Rhone Resch, president of Solar Energy Industries Association. ''Do you have to provide more policy support and funding initially? Absolutely. But the result is more energy security, clean energy and domestic jobs.''
Michael E. Webber, associate director of the Center for International Energy and Environmental Policy at the University of Texas, Austin, said renewable energy subsidies were a worthy investment. ''It is a form of corporate welfare that is consistent with other social goals like job creation, clean air and boosting a domestic source of energy,'' he said.
Overflowing Breaks
Obama administration officials said the subsidies were intended to help renewable-energy plants that were jumbo-sized or used innovative technology, both potential obstacles to getting private financing. But even proponents of the subsidies say the administration may have gone overboard.
Concerns that the government was being too generous reached all the way to President Obama. In an October 2010 memo prepared for the president, Lawrence H. Summers, then his top economic adviser; Carol M. Browner, then his adviser on energy matters; and Ronald A. Klain, then the vice president's chief of staff, expressed discomfort with the ''double dipping'' that was starting to take place. They said investors had little ''skin in the game.''
Officials involved in reviewing the loan applications said that Treasury Department officials pressed the Energy Department to respond to these concerns.
Officials at both agencies declined to discuss the anticipated financial returns of the clean-energy projects the federal government has agreed to guarantee, saying the information was confidential.
But Energy Department officials said they had carefully evaluated every project to try to calculate how much money the developers and investors stood to make. ''They were rejected, if they looked too rich or too risky,'' Mr. LaVera, the Energy Department spokesman said.
In at least one instance -- NRG's Agua Caliente solar project in Yuma County, Ariz. -- the Energy Department demanded that the company agree not to apply for a Treasury grant it was legally entitled to receive. The government was concerned the extra subsidy would result in excessive profit, NRG executives confirmed.
In other cases, the agency required that companies use most of the Treasury grants that they would get when construction was complete to pay down part of the government-guaranteed construction loans instead of cashing out the equity investors.
''The private sector really has more skin in the game than the public realizes,'' said Andy Katell, a spokesman for GE Energy Financial Services, which like Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and other financial firms has large investments in several of these projects.
But there is no doubt that the deals are lucrative for the companies involved.
G.E., for example, lobbied Congress in 2009 to help expand the subsidy programs, and it now profits from every aspect of the boom in renewable-power plant construction.
It is also an investor in one solar and one wind project that have secured about $2 billion in federal loan guarantees and expects to collect nearly $1 billion in Treasury grants. The company has also won hundreds of millions of dollars in contracts to sell its turbines to wind plants built with public subsidies.
Mr. Katell said G.E. and other companies were simply ''playing ball'' under the rules set by Congress and the Obama administration to promote the industry. ''It is good for the country, and good for our company,'' he said.
Satya Kumar, an analyst at Credit Suisse who specializes in renewable energy companies, said there was no question the country would see real benefits from the surge in renewable energy projects.
''But the industry could have done a lot more solar for a lot less price, in terms of subsidy,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 18, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Saturday about public subsidies for renewable energy projects described incorrectly the earnings that the utility company NRG projected by 2015 from its solar projects. The company told investors that it expected the projects to generate $354 million annually in Ebitda, or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization; it did not project ''more than $300 million a year in profits.'' (While Ebitda is one common method of viewing profitability, ''profits'' is more typically used to describe pretax income, which the company said would be $49 million a year.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Now under construction, the California Valley Solar Ranch is expected to supply 250 megawatts of power. Below, the Granite Reliable project in Coos County, N.H. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
JOSEPH SYWENKYJ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 DAVID W. CRANE: Chief executive of NRG (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B7) CHART: Stacking Subsidies: Since 2009, extensive federal and state subsidies have been offered for solar power. An analysis by Booz & Company shows the ways in which government subsidies have turned one such project -- NRG's California Valley Solar Ranch -- into an almost surefire investment. (Source: Booz & Company analysis of materials provided by NRG, Department of Energy, and state public utility commissions) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (92%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); WIND ENERGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); TAX LAW (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); MISC NONMETALLIC MINERAL MINING (73%); JOB CREATION (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); GOOGLE INC (56%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%); GS (NYSE) (56%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

PERSON: DAVID W CRANE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2011



537 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Future Farmers Look Ahead

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
INDIANAPOLIS -- Gamaliel Rizzo grew up in a brownstone apartment in Brooklyn and is studying to become a doctor. Still, he spent his high school years learning how to raise chinchillas, goats and alpaca and growing radishes, sunflowers and cilantro. He even worked on a dairy farm in the summer, all as a member of the Future Farmers of America.
Although the nation has shifted ever further from its agrarian roots, the organization is thriving. Begun 83 years ago and now known simply as the F.F.A., it is the largest vocational student group in the country, with more than half a million members and still growing.
Although farm employment accounts for less than 1 percent of all jobs in the United States, the Agriculture Department says that one in 12 jobs is agriculture-related. And during the deep downturn and rocky recovery, these workers have actually fared better than most. 
That gives the F.F.A. a calling card as an organization that actually prepares students for viable careers. About 70 percent of its members live in rural areas, and 19 percent live in small towns. The fastest growing segment, however, is in urban and suburban areas, now making up 10 percent of the membership.
''You would think that something called Future Farmers of America would have come to a screeching halt by at least the 1960s in most parts of the country,'' said Pamela Riney-Kehrberg, a historian at Iowa State University. ''What amazes me is the degree to which they have made themselves relevant when by all expectations they should have simply ceased to exist.''
The group has succeeded in part by expanding well beyond agricultural science while also broadening that field to include genetics, logistics, landscape gardening and alternative fuels.
Now, the group's chapters aim to teach students leadership and job readiness as much as the finer points of cattle care or corn fertilization. Mr. Rizzo said that although he learned about farm life, he spent more time honing skills like public speaking and developing business budgets, which he believes will improve his job prospects someday.
''A lot of these sales tactics will help,'' said Mr. Rizzo, 18, who graduated from the John Bowne High School in Queens last summer and is now a freshman at Rutgers.
''Medicine is more of a business,'' he added. ''And to get patients in this economy you have to understand the market and how it works.''
Last month, he joined about 45,000 teenagers clad in blue corduroy jackets with yellow stitching for the F.F.A.'s annual convention here. Between panel discussions like ''Learning to Lead,'' ''Banking Tips for Students,'' and ''How Many Lawyers Does It Take?'' they competed in events to identify cuts of meat and species of plants, along with contests of extemporaneous speaking and presenting business marketing plans.
At a time when many employers complain about the lack of basic communication and interpersonal skills among job candidates, the F.F.A. emphasizes work on group projects and old-fashioned presentations in essays and speeches at many of its events. Even in the purely agricultural contests like the judging of livestock, students defended their positions before the judges as if they were trial lawyers in court.
''The common misconception is that we are trying to teach our kids to be farmers and rooting, tooting cowboys,'' said Greg Rystad, an agricultural teacher and F.F.A. faculty adviser from El Paso, Tex., who had stopped by the booth of the biotechnology firm Syngenta to observe a biochemist testing corn leaves for proteins that would repel worms. ''We are training professionals, even if they are not in the agriculture field.''
In one of the large exhibit halls, representatives of Toyota, CSX and Carhartt, the maker of work wear, mingled at a career fair with those of more obvious agricultural services companies like John Deere and the animal health division of Pfizer, the pharmaceutical giant.
At times, the convention simply reflected typical teenage interests and concerns. A laser show and pounding rock music accompanied the opening ceremony, as well as a music video produced to the convention's theme, ''I Believe.'' A speaker who described himself as a ''farm boy from Kansas'' warned against drugs, displaying the third- and fourth-degree burns he had incurred during a methamphetamine lab accident. And at the career fair, many students were more interested in playing video games, singing with karaoke machines, taking goofy photos and winning prizes than talking to recruiters.
Still, the organization is a bit of a throwback that stresses wholesome values. Most of the conventioneers were neatly groomed, shunning wild hairstyles or flashy jewelry, and there were frequent invocations of God and country.
Some of the business-oriented projects seemed a bit out of sync with the times. During the finals of the contest for best marketing plan, a team from Shoshoni, Wyo., described an advertising campaign for a small firm using direct mail and road signs, but made no mention of Facebook, Twitter or other social media. A judge pointedly asked why they had budgeted $1,200 just for radio time.
F.F.A. members must enroll in agricultural courses at school, but they do much of their work after school preparing for speaking and business competitions, or tending vegetable plots or animals. They also take apprenticeships on farms, in nurseries and at biotechnology firms. The group draws many students whose parents and grandparents were members, even if they are no longer on the farm. Kaylen Baker, a 17-year-old from Yukon, a suburb of Oklahoma City, said she joined F.F.A., as her father did, and likewise raised pigs. But she had come to the convention as a finalist in prepared public speaking, which she won with a speech on the virtues of miniature cows. She hopes to pursue a career in veterinary medicine.
Part of the group's appeal may be that the expanded field of agriculture, which includes forestry and fishing, added jobs between 2008 and 2011, a period when total employment in the United States fell about 3.5 percent, according to the Labor Department.
''There is an unlimited future in agriculture,'' said Tom Vilsack, the United States secretary of agriculture, citing the demand being created by a growing global population and changing diets in developing countries. Plenty of the children of farmers who have joined the group realize that farming itself may no longer support a family. Thor Pearson, who grew up on the cattle ranch started by his great-great-grandfather in Stanwood, Wash., said his father had turned it into a ''hobby farm,'' and now worked at a technology firm.
Mr. Pearson, 17, raised 50 head of cattle and competed at livestock judging and agricultural sales in F.F.A., but he said his career ambitions were elsewhere, perhaps in sales.
Whether a bit of denial or confidence was at work, Mr. Pearson said he was unworried about his economic prospects. ''You can get pretty far with a good attitude and a good work ethic,'' he said as he took a break to listen to a fellow member sing on a talent stage in the convention center atrium. ''No matter what the economy is, that is still going to prevail.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Austin Lee, center, with other members of F.F.A., previously the Future Farmers of America, at their annual convention. (B1)
About 45,000 members of the F.F.A. gathered for the annual convention at Conseco Fieldhouse in October in Indianapolis.
 Mechanics and auto repair, top, were covered at the convention, and David Walden, above, a member of the F.F.A., spoke on labor law and the role of migrant workers in farming. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER W. STEVENSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); MAMMALS (89%); HISTORY (78%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); AGRICULTURE (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); FARM LABOR (77%); AGRONOMY (74%); DAIRY FARMING (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); SUBURBS (51%); LAWYERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FFA ORGANIZATION (93%); IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (93%) INDIANA, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



538 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Plan Would Delay Sales Of Generic For Lipitor

BYLINE: By DUFF WILSON. 
James B. Stewart, whose Common Sense column normally appears on this page, is away.

 BODY:
The biggest introduction of a generic drug in pharmaceutical history is being met with tough business strategies by Pfizer and pharmacy benefit companies, according to recent letters to pharmacists.
Many drugstores are being asked to block prescriptions for a generic version of Pfizer's Lipitor starting Dec. 1, when the company loses its patent for the blockbuster cholesterol drug and generic competition begins.
Medco Health Solutions, among the nation's largest pharmacy benefit managers, is one of the companies issuing instructions, seeking to have pharmacists keep filling prescriptions with the more expensive Lipitor for six months. 
Pfizer has agreed to large discounts for benefit managers that block the use of generic versions of Lipitor, according to a letter from Catalyst Rx, a benefit manager for 18 million people in the United States. The letters have not previously been made public.
A pharmacy group and an independent expert say the tactic will benefit Pfizer and benefit managers at the expense of employers and taxpayers, who may end up paying more than they should for the drug.
Pharmacy benefit managers are middlemen between drug companies (the sellers) and insurers and employers that sponsor insurance plans (the buyers).
''I'm stunned,'' said Geoffrey F. Joyce, an associate professor of pharmaceutical economics and a health policy expert at the University of Southern California, after reviewing the letters. ''This is just an egregious case. Clearly there's been some negotiation between Pfizer and the large P.B.M.'s saying we're going to make this cost-beneficial to them, but the plan sponsors are going to eat it.''
As for the people who actually take Lipitor, after Nov. 30, they will typically see their co-payment for a 30-day supply drop to the $10 level of the generic substitute, according to one of the pharmacy letters. The co-payment for Lipitor now is often $25 or more.
When patients submit a prescription for a generic version of Lipitor, though, they are to be given Lipitor instead.
Lipitor is the best-selling drug ever, accounting for $106 billion sales over the last decade, or almost one-quarter of Pfizer's total. Pfizer has told analysts it is preparing for the loss of Lipitor's patent with a variety of business moves to preserve market share.
Two generic drug makers are set to compete starting Dec. 1. Watson Pharmaceuticals is making a generic version authorized by Pfizer under a profit-sharing agreement. Pending federal approval, Ranbaxy Laboratories of India also plans to sell a generic version. When a drug's patent protection expires, the law permits only limited generic competition in the first six months.
After May 31, other generic versions of Lipitor are expected to flood the market, lowering prices sharply. Then, according to the letter from Catalyst Rx, the generic block lifts, Lipitor's co-payment rises and drugstores are told to fill Lipitor prescriptions with the cheaper generic versions.
Objections to the deal were raised publicly on Thursday in a news release from a group called Pharmacists United for Truth and Transparency, which opposes some tactics of pharmacy benefit managers. The statement called the move ''a blatant attempt'' by benefit managers to keep Pfizer's discount while employers still have to pay the full price of the brand-name drug.
David Marley, an independent pharmacist in Winston-Salem, N.C., and spokesman for the group, said the benefit companies and Pfizer would profit at a cost to employers, the government and health care overall.
''That's why this is unique: We're talking about blocking a truly less expensive drug, which is why the employers have got to be on top of this,'' Mr. Marley said. ''This is the most aggressive I've seen where they are trusting the employer is not going to figure out the whole game.''
Paul M. Bisaro, chief executive of Watson, said the Pfizer discounts would undercut its generic price and raise overall health care costs while enriching pharmacy benefit managers.
''It's not a good event,'' he said in an interview. ''And consumers are going to be confused. They're not going to understand why they can't get a generic.''
Raymond F. Kerins, a Pfizer vice president and spokesman, issued a statement saying Pfizer was committed to supporting patients' continued access to Lipitor. He declined to answer further questions Friday afternoon.
In another statement, Melissa Mackey, manager of public affairs for Medco, said its letter described ''a custom plan design, which is not a new concept,'' in which clients could ''tailor their formulary to maximize value.'' Asked in an e-mail specifically whether Medco would pocket the Pfizer discounts while employers and taxpayers paid more than the generic price for brand-name Lipitor, Ms. Mackey declined further comment.
James H. Golden, a spokesman for Catalyst Rx, said in a statement: ''As patents expire and generic forms of medications become available, Catalyst evaluates the market on a case-by-case basis to determine the appropriate measures to drive the lowest cost for our clients.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pfizer's patent for the best-selling cholesterol drug Lipitor will expire on Nov. 30. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. B. REED/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACY BENEFITS (92%); GENERIC DRUGS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACISTS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (90%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (90%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (89%); PHARMACIES (89%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (78%); PATENT LAW (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PATENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); INSURANCE (71%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); APPROVALS (60%); CHOLESTEROL (57%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (92%); RANBAXY LABORATORIES LTD (84%); MEDCO HEALTH SOLUTIONS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (54%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (92%); PFEB (BRU) (92%); PFE (NYSE) (92%); RANBAXY (NSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (92%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (92%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (57%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



539 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Flock to U.S. Envoy, but Leaders Are Ruffled

BYLINE: By SHARON LaFRANIERE; Li Bibo contributed research from Guangzhou and Edy Yin from Beijing.

 BODY:
GUANGZHOU, China
AS the powerful Communist Party chief of Guangdong Province waited in an ornate conference room last week for the arrival of the new American ambassador, Gary Locke, the banter with his aides naturally turned to Mr. Locke's Chinese roots. Mr. Locke had stopped in Guangzhou to talk to the party chief, Wang Yang, en route to a visit to his ancestral village.
Mr. Wang put a quick end to that topic. ''He's no hometown folk,'' he told aides as they shifted in a reception line. ''He should clearly realize he is an American.''
Just a few months ago, some Chinese media outlets were offering Mr. Locke as a role model for China's stuffy political leaders -- an American bigwig who flew economy class and shunned having a retinue of underlings, like those who attend to the needs of politicians here. 
As Mr. Wang's remark suggests, those days are over. Propaganda authorities, apparently worried that Mr. Locke makes Chinese leaders look out of touch, have imposed restrictions on media coverage of Mr. Locke, the former two-term governor of Washington State and commerce secretary, and the first Chinese-American ambassador here.
Some news organizations have even suggested in commentaries that his man-of-the-people style is an act, an American plot to stir citizens' resentment of their own leaders.
Two Chinese journalists covering Mr. Locke's visit last week to Guangzhou and his ancestral village said propaganda officials had issued a directive not to ''hype'' the trip. That meant that they would write straightforward articles of about 1,000 Chinese characters and that their work would be kept off newspaper front pages.
''They don't like him,'' one reporter, who insisted on anonymity, said of the propaganda authorities. ''They think he is too high-profile and he is embarrassing Chinese leaders.''
But somehow, the word has not gotten to ordinary Chinese.
As Mr. Locke traveled on Nov. 4 to his ancestral village, Jilong, a cluster of gray-brick homes two and a half hours from this provincial capital, hundreds of people gathered on the streets of the city of Taishan, to watch as he stopped at a local kindergarten and -- if they were lucky -- to have their picture taken with him.
Mr. Locke was typically obliging about posing for snapshots. ''He likes to be with common people,'' said Wu Qiang, a 35-year-old factory worker, as he waited patiently for the ambassador's motorcade. ''He has Chinese blood, but American characteristics.''
Taishan, a spawning ground for hundreds of thousands of Chinese immigrants to the United States, seems to be the rule, not the exception. Three months into Mr. Locke's tenure in China, his popularity among the masses separates him from his predecessors.
His immediate predecessor, Jon M. Huntsman Jr., although steeped in China policy and, unlike Mr. Locke, able to converse in Mandarin, never generated such hoopla. Nor did those before him.
As Mr. Locke touched down in Beijing in August, Chinese microblogs were buzzing with reports about how he had bought his own coffee, carried his own backpack, hauled his own luggage and traveled in an ordinary vehicle instead of a limousine.
Ordinary Chinese continue to be fascinated by reports of Mr. Locke and his family waiting in line for an hour to catch a cable car while visiting the Great Wall or flying economy class. Coach plane travel, the ambassador has repeatedly explained, is United States government policy.
In no small part, Chinese are riveted -- and proud -- that one of their own has joined the ranks of the powerful in a nation they still regard with respect. Mr. Locke makes the most of this anyone-can-succeed-in-America narrative.
His grandfather left Jilong village for the United States in the 1880s, washing dishes and mopping floors in exchange for English lessons, and brought his children and relatives over to America one by one. Mr. Locke says his father, who immigrated at age 12 or 13, worked every day of the year and taught him respect for family, education and hard work.
ONE of Gary Locke's best speech lines, delivered here in Guangzhou to applause, is that it took the Locke family 100 years to move one mile, from the house where his grandfather toiled as a servant to the Washington governor's Georgian-style mansion.
Truth be told, Mr. Locke could play the part of a Chinese leader, one with graying temples, and some might say, a sharper haircut. But in a nation where political fortunes are almost exclusively determined in secret deliberations, Mr. Locke's career trajectory is prototypically American -- and to some, an implicit rebuff to Beijing's assertions that the Chinese masses are not ready for democracy.
Mr. Locke says he draws from both cultures. In China, he said last week, he hopes to show that ''Americans are very easygoing people.'' He added: ''If the added attention and great visibility that I have been able to generate can help open doors and expose more Chinese to American values and the American way of life, that is great.''
But while his ordinary-folks image has gone down well with many Chinese, the state-run news media have at times been lacerating.
China Daily, a state-run English-language newspaper, at first applauded his Everyman image, suggesting, ''Perhaps it is time for Chinese dignitaries to follow the example of humble Locke.''
But Guangming Daily, an influential Communist Party newspaper, charged that Mr. Locke's appointment ''reveals the despicable intention of the United States to use a Chinese to control the Chinese and incite political chaos in China.''
The English-language edition of Global Times, a nationalistic party newspaper, advised Mr. Locke to stick to policy and not pretend to be ''a mirror'' for Chinese officials. ''A U.S. ambassador becoming a political star in China cannot be interpreted as U.S. respect for China,'' a September editorial chided.
Mr. Locke's visit last week drew a generally cautious response from the official news media. Jiangmen Daily, a small local newspaper, ran a question-and-answer article with the ambassador as well as a front-page article on his visit. But the Saturday edition of Guangzhou Daily, a Communist Party-run publication that reaches far more readers, devoted a mere 620 characters on Page 10 to Mr. Locke.
While China News Service, a government-owned news agency, provided some coverage, the bigger and more influential outlets, like the official Xinhua news service, stayed away.
THIS week, an op-ed article in Global Times suggested that Mr. Locke had acted improperly in 2003 when, as governor of Washington, he visited a Chinese company that had formed a partnership with his in-laws. By contrast, the article said, China appoints only ''pure'' ambassadors with no conflicts of interest. Richard Buangan, the American Embassy's spokesman, said Mr. Locke had no financial interest in the partnership and never advocated on its behalf.
Chinese propaganda authorities have long dictated news coverage of foreign diplomats and visiting dignitaries, tuning reports to meet government purposes. If he is now a target, Mr. Locke said, it is of no concern to him.
''I don't know what is in the mind of the government's newspapers,'' he said last week. ''I am not here to make a statement about the lifestyle of Chinese leaders.''
Nonetheless, he does. Headed back to Beijing last weekend, Mr. Locke sauntered to the back of the plane to chat with a reporter. So many passengers got up to snap photos that the ambassador was forced to return to his seat in the first row of economy class so others would sit down and let the plane take off.
Disappointed, one passenger pleaded with the reporter to summon Mr. Locke back. ''Chinese officials are V.I.P.'s,'' said the man, who asked for anonymity because his job is government-related. ''There is a great fervor about him because of what he represents.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GARY LOCKE (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIN CHEUNG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography; News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (77%); NEWS REPORTING (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); WRITERS (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); GOVERNORS (66%)

PERSON: GARY LOCKE (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGZHOU, CHINA (90%) SOUTH CHINA (94%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



540 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Pledges to Fight Joblessness Among Minority Youths

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
SAN JUAN, P.R. -- Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, in a speech aimed at reaffirming his standing with the Hispanic community, vowed on Friday that in the next legislative session he would take on joblessness among young people in New York's State's minority communities.
Addressing a conference here of Hispanic lawmakers from New York, Mr. Cuomo emphasized that his administration was committed to serving Hispanic communities. As proof, he offered his appearance at the conference, known as Somos el Futuro, his first official trip outside New York as governor. 
He has stayed at home because ''there is no reason to leave the State of New York,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''The one exception has been to come here to Somos.''
Mr. Cuomo used the speech to highlight the success of what he described as his social-justice agenda, which he said amounted to his proudest achievement as governor.
Mr. Cuomo said his administration had doubled the state's goal for businesses owned by women and for minorities receiving state contracts. And he said his appointments of minorities to posts in his administration had made it the most diverse in the state's history.
The governor also highlighted his closing of prisons and juvenile justice facilities across the state. He said he was the first chief executive in decades to reduce the number of prison beds across the state, and declared that doing so ''made a statement that prison incarceration is not an employment program'' for prison workers -- reprising one of the most memorable lines of his first State of the State address.
But most of all, Mr. Cuomo focused on the scourge of joblessness, a message that was warmly received by legislators and others at the conference, held at the Conrad San Juan Condado Plaza. He noted that the unemployment rate among young Hispanic men in New York State was 35 percent, and described joblessness among young minority men as a problem ''that has gone on year after year.''
''That's what we have to fix when we come back next year,'' the governor said, referring to the legislative session that begins in January. Speaking to reporters later, Mr. Cuomo declined to provide more details on what measures he planned to pursue.
In his remarks, the governor also spoke of the state's increasingly worrisome financial condition, saying that next year was going to be a ''tough year'' when it came to balancing the state's budget.
The governor's office is now more than a week past the deadline for releasing an update on the state's finances; it has said the instability in the financial markets has prevented it from completing the report.
Earlier Friday, the state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, who was also attending the conference, said that there was ''nothing fatal about there being a delay'' in budget projections from Mr. Cuomo, but that he hoped the governor's office would release its figures early next week.
In a panel discussion, Mr. DiNapoli, who estimated next year's budget gap at nearly $3 billion, worried that poor financial prospects for Wall Street and expected layoffs in the securities industry could make Albany's budget picture even gloomier.
''The outlook, I think, is still one of a very sluggish and a very slow economic recovery,'' Mr. DiNapoli said, adding that the difficult economy would create ''some very tough choices out there for government to make.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's message on joblessness was warmly received by legislators at the conference in Puerto Rico. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL VALENTIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); PRISONS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (77%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (70%); MEN (67%); HISTORY (66%); BUDGETS (63%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (52%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); PUERTO RICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



541 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: A Bid to Get Film Lovers Not to Rent

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Hollywood has had enough of the sharp consumer shift toward renting movies through Netflix. Desperate to raise home entertainment profits, studios want people to start buying movies outright again, either digitally or on little silver discs.
But what's the best way to force that pendulum to swing?
Every studio is grappling with that question, but one of the more aggressive and risky bets is being made by Warner Brothers. The studio, which is owned by Time Warner and commands a 20 percent share of the DVD and Blu-ray market, has decided to center its buy-not-rent hopes on Flixster, a small social network for movie buffs that it bought in May for about $75 million.
Warner last month introduced technology that makes Flixster the home base for a new movie storage service called UltraViolet. The free service, backed by most of the big studios, allows people to buy a movie once and watch it anywhere -- on a computer, mobile device or Web-ready television. The strategy is to make owning more compelling than renting by loading digital portability into purchases. 
''We must move consumers in mass numbers toward collecting movies digitally, and this is a path,'' said Kevin Tsujihara, president of Warner Home Entertainment.
Retailers like Wal-Mart are working on UltraViolet access sites, but the only way to use the cloud-based service for now is via Flixster. Once consumers buy an UltraViolet-enabled DVD or Blu-ray set -- say, ''Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2,'' which arrived in stores on Friday -- they can set up an account on Flixster and type in a code provided on the disc packaging to claim their digital rights.
That may seem complicated for consumers in the age of Netflix and iTunes. ''We recognize that the product is not perfect today,'' Mr. Tsujihara said. ''We don't have the luxury of waiting a year until we have everything perfect.''
Some analysts say Warner is moving too quickly. Rank-and-file consumers are still hazy about what cloud storage even means. There will be only 10 or so titles for UltraViolet by Christmas. And large swaths of the UltraViolet system are still incomplete.
''It remains far, far easier for DVD-buying consumers to pirate a digital copy of their movie,'' said Richard Greenfield, an analyst for BTIG Capital, adding that, ''moving forward with UltraViolet before it is ready for prime time risks pushing consumers increasingly toward rental-priced options where they do not need to deal with the hassles.''
Warner and other studios are racing ahead for a variety of reasons. Purchases provide margins for the studios that are typically three times greater than rentals -- and the rise of Netflix, Redbox and video-on-demand rental services have severely cut into purchases. And the down economy has also taken a toll. Sales of DVDs in the United States last year totaled $7.8 billion, a 43 percent decline from the industry's 2006 peak of $13.7 billion, according to the media-tracking firm IHS Screen Digest.
At the same time, the sale of movies online, hampered by the lack of interoperability that UltraViolet is intended to fix, has been ''a complete failure to date,'' Mr. Greenfield said. In the first three quarters of 2011, electronic sales increased about 7 percent to $406 million, according to the Digital Entertainment Group.
Warner has bigger ambitions for Flixster. In the coming months, Flixster will start offering a service called Disc to Digital that will allow people to pay a small fee per disc to convert their existing DVD collections into digital copies. The idea is to train consumers to manage their movie libraries online, much the way they do digital music or photos.
Flixster already offers a service called Collections that allows users to tie together their iTunes, Hulu and Netflix accounts to show any films that they have rented or bought online.
Flixster will also transform itself into a film retailer, allowing users to buy digital movies through what it calls a ''studio agnostic'' storefront. That positions Flixster as a competitor to Apple's iTunes and Wal-Mart's Vudu, a strategy that some other studios see as foolhardy. What does it know about retail? Won't retail partners -- especially Wal-Mart -- see the move as turf infringement?
The plan ''hasn't caused any problems,'' Mr. Tsujihara said, indicating that Warner intends to tread carefully. He added, ''We didn't buy Flixster as a retail outlet.''
Still, building a direct relationship with consumers was one of the primary reasons Warner bought the site. Flixster Collections allows the studio to see users' movie purchases, for instance. If Warner sees that a user has bought five of its eight Harry Potter films, the studio can try to sell the other three. ''It's a huge opportunity from a marketing perspective,'' Mr. Tsujihara said.
The question that remains, of course, is whether Warner had a choice -- did the studio step in because it's a forward thinker? Or was no retailer willing to stick its neck out for the UltraViolet locker?
Flixster.com had only about 1.2 million unique visitors in September, according to comScore. Most of the company's muscle comes from a free what's-in-theaters-now app that works on Apple, Android and BlackBerry devices. The app, which Warner says attracts about 25 million unique users a month on a global basis, includes information from RottenTomatoes.com, the review aggregation site that is also owned by Flixster.
(The studio dismisses industry worries that owning Rotten Tomatoes is a conflict because the site will be reviewing Warner films. ''It's completely independent, and if you looked at some of Warner's scores, you would know I'm serious,'' Mr. Tsujihara said.)
Flixster was founded in 2006 by two Silicon Valley entrepreneurs. Initial backers included the LinkedIn founder Reid Hoffman. The idea was to create a network for movie fans to share ratings and reviews. It quickly became part of the studio marketer toolbox, with studios paying to sponsor quizzes that could be shared with friends, essentially turning users into sales agents.
It is too early to judge the consumer response to Flixster's UltraViolet push, but there are early indications of trouble among the geek squad. ''Talk about a bad first impression,'' wrote the tech blog GigaOm.
Warner's analysis of early results is starkly different. ''We are very, very happy with the redemption rates,'' said Thomas Gewecke, Warner's president for digital distribution. He declined to reveal numbers to back up the assertion, but he said Warner had plans to prod more people to open UltraViolet accounts on Flixster by offering a ''starter kit'' that comes with a choice of a free digital movie.
''This is only the beginning,'' Mr. Gewecke said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Flixster iPhone app. Flixster is the home of the new movie storage service UltraViolet. (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM (90%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (90%); BLUE LASER DISC TECHNOLOGY (89%); DIGITAL RIGHTS MANAGEMENT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (73%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (92%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (92%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



542 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Obama Trip Stresses Ties To Economies Across Pacific

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
SAN DIEGO -- After a decade in which wars in the Middle East have dominated American foreign policy, President Obama began an eight-day trip around the Pacific Rim on Friday to inaugurate what he hopes will be a new era in which engagement with the fast-growing economies of Asia is paramount.
Mr. Obama will travel from Hawaii, where he will host one trade summit meeting of Pacific nations, including China, to Bali, Indonesia, for a second meeting, promoting both as steps toward his goal of doubling American exports to create more jobs. 
In between, he will make a quick stop in Australia to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the military alliance with the country, which sent troops to Iraq and Afghanistan. He will also announce an agreement for a permanent American military presence in Australia, allowing increased naval operations.
The diplomatic island-hopping comes at a time of conflicting economic and political pressures for the president. While Mr. Obama is eager to avoid any tensions or trade wars with China, especially with the economy weak, Asian allies are eager for the United States to raise its regional profile as a commercial and security counterweight to a rising China.
And in his own country, Mr. Obama is under increasing political pressure to get tougher with China on trade, not only from the usual labor groups and liberals in his own party, but from Republican presidential candidates led by Mitt Romney, the candidate considered Mr. Obama's likeliest challenger. In a Republican debate on Wednesday, Mr. Romney called China a trade ''cheater'' for keeping its currency undervalued and its products underpriced against American exports.
While no major agreements are expected from the summit meetings, the White House has defined the coming week's events in sweeping terms.
''This is really an important opportunity for the president to engage in this dynamic region to create American jobs, secure our interests and stand up for democratic values,'' Benjamin Rhodes, the deputy national security adviser for strategic communications, told reporters this week.
But Mr. Obama is constrained by worries about the mounting debt of the United States. Indeed, the president will be absent from Washington while a special Congressional committee is struggling to surmount its partisan impasse over spending and taxes to reach a compromise deficit-reduction plan by a Nov. 23 deadline -- just four days after Mr. Obama returns.
As the Asian allies are well aware, if the committee fails or falls short of its charge to cut deficits by $1.2 trillion over 10 years, in 2013 automatic cuts will take effect, fully half from military programs. So the allies are looking for reassurance that that will not happen and, more broadly, that the focus on deficit reduction will not reduce the military resources -- like carrier battle groups -- that the United States has available to offset China's growing military muscle in Asia.
During his flight first to San Diego, Mr. Obama made phone calls to the leaders of the Congressional committee -- Senator Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington, and Representative Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas -- to receive an update.
Jay Carney, Mr. Obama's press secretary, said the president reiterated that any plan ''must be balanced and will require tough choices by both sides, including looking at revenues and entitlements.'' And he said Mr. Obama would not support efforts by some Republicans to repeal the provision threatening automatic cuts in military spending.
Mr. Rhodes told reporters aboard Air Force One, ''We'll be making it very clear over the course of the trip that the United States will continue to play the role it has throughout the last century in being the anchor of security and stability in the region and having the type of force posture in the Asia-Pacific that can protect our interests as well as those of our allies in the region.''
Mr. Rhodes also said Mr. Obama was certain to raise the issue of China's currency valuation when he meets with its president, Hu Jintao, along with ''other steps to increase demand within China's market.''
But illustrating that the Middle East continues to exert its pull on the nation's attention, Mr. Rhodes said Mr. Obama also was expected to speak with Mr. Hu and with Russia's president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, about the recent report of the International Atomic Energy Agency on evidence pointing to an Iranian nuclear weapons program.
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta paved the way for Mr. Obama in trips to Asia last month. Mr. Panetta, there after Mr. Obama announced all troops would be out of Iraq by the year's end, said the United States was at ''a turning point.'' Mrs. Clinton's recent long essay in Foreign Policy magazine was read as the fullest statement yet of American aspirations in the region and for rebalancing foreign policy after 10 years and 3 wars in the Middle East.
Michael J. Green, an Asia expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said the president's trip ''comes at a point when the American elite, at least, and I think the American public is really focused on Asia.'' Mr. Green cited a recent poll for the Chicago Council on Global Affairs that for the first time showed that Americans, by a wide margin, consider Asia the most important part of the world for the United States.
On Saturday, Mr. Obama will meet with eight other leaders in what they are calling the Trans-Pacific Partnership for expanded trade. Neither China nor Japan is included. China is watching warily, given the group's talk of rules against government subsidies of state-owned companies.
On Sunday, Mr. Obama is to host the annual Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, known as APEC, with leaders of 21 economies on both sides of the Pacific, including Canada and Mexico. Mr. Obama chose Honolulu, his birthplace, as the site ''to highlight America's position as a Pacific nation,'' the White House said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama and the first lady, Michelle Obama, after leaving the White House on Friday to begin a Pacific Rim trip that will take them to Hawaii, Australia and Bali, Indonesia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); NAVIES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); TRADE DISPUTES (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%) HAWAII, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); INDONESIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



543 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Jump As the Crisis In Europe Eases a Bit

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Gaia Pianigiani contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Stocks surged in the United States and in Europe on Friday after a package of austerity measures cleared a hurdle in Italy and as Greece moved closer to completing a national unity government.
The political developments in Europe helped steady the broad market in the United States, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index finished with a gain of 0.9 percent for the week, which included a one-day decline of 3.7 percent on Wednesday.
Still, investors and analysts emphasized that the challenges facing the euro zone were far from over. 
The rates on Italy's 10-year bonds, for example, rose earlier in the week to critical levels as the future of the prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, hung in the balance. The approval of an austerity plan by the Italian Senate was a first step toward easing Mr. Berlusconi from office.
But analysts, like those from Markit, a financial information company, said it would be misleading to think that the latest political developments, including bringing in a new Italian leader, would signal the end of the recent turmoil.
''Italy's debt burden needs to be dealt with now and without growth in the next few years it is hard to see how the country can stay on a sustainable footing,'' the Markit report said. ''So Italy will probably need external help regardless of who is in charge.''
The most important question for markets, the report said, is ''how this assistance will be delivered.''
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index finished the day with a gain of or 24.16 points, or 2 percent, at 1,263.85. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 259.89 points, or 2.2 percent, at 12,153.68. The Nasdaq composite index rose 53.60 points, or 2 percent, to 2,678.75.
The Dow industrials were up 1.4 percent for the week, while the Nasdaq was down 0.3 percent.
The bond market and banks were closed on Friday in the United States because of Veterans Day.
Analysts said the problems in Europe were offsetting positive domestic economic data in the United States that would have otherwise lifted stock prices.
Among individual stocks, Walt Disney rose 6 percent to lead all gainers on the Dow industrials after reporting late Thursday that its quarterly profit had risen 30 percent.
The latest data report was on Friday, showing a consumer sentiment index that rose higher than last month and exceeded forecasts. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index rose to 64.2 this month, the best reading since June and above the 61.5 Bloomberg survey of forecasts.
Alan B. Lancz, the president of Alan B. Lancz & Associates, a financial advisory firm, said that if not for the Europe situation the markets would probably be testing higher levels.
''Looks like most of the worries in the U.S. market were pertaining to Europe,'' he said. ''If you get that settled at least in the right direction, it is likely to bring in more buyers.''
In the last week, the markets have see-sawed with political and financial developments in the euro zone, particularly Greece and Italy. Stocks ended higher on Monday and Tuesday, but on Wednesday, there was a global sell-off in equities as Italy's 10-year bond yields surpassed 7 percent, a critical threshold for when borrowing costs start to become unsustainable.
But when Italy managed a successful offering on Thursday of debt securities, stocks rebounded. Italy has another auction on Monday, offering 5 billion euros' ($6.8 billion) worth of five-year bonds.
On Friday, after the vote in the Italian Senate, the 10-year eased back further, to 6.4 percent. But while the markets generally took the latest headlines as a positive, it was interpreted as a one-day improvement, or just a step toward the reforms Italy needs to take to tackle its debt and economic problems over the long term.
''It is a little bit of renewed optimism that they are making progress on the political front,'' said David Joy, chief market strategist with Ameriprise Financial. ''I would not suggest that it means we are out of the woods. It is a sign of progress before structural changes can be made.''
Mr. Joy added that the events of the last week, which included a euro-era record for high borrowing costs, highlighted how pressing it was for the euro zone union to come up with a lender of last resort.
''We are at a critical juncture here,'' Mr. Joy said. ''We are at the point in which Italy risks being unable to fund itself. A mechanism to allow them to be funded needs to be identified.''
The euro traded at $1.3755 on Friday, up from $1.3602 on Thursday.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue-chip shares, ended up 3.1 percent, while the FTSE 100 index in London was up 1.9 percent. The major index in France was up 2.8 percent and in Germany, the Dax index rose 3.2 percent.
In Asia, markets likewise closed higher.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); APPROVALS (73%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%)

COMPANY: ALAN B LANCZ & ASSOCIATES INC (80%); WALT DISNEY CO (51%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (80%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (51%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (51%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) EUROPE (96%); ITALY (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GREECE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



544 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: The Right Move on Keystone XL

 BODY:
President Obama made just the right call on Thursday when he delayed a final decision on the Keystone XL oil pipeline from Canada until 2013.
The decision included a heaping self-serving of politics, since a decision either way would have offended somebody among Mr. Obama's base voters -- the labor unions who want the pipeline or the environmentalists who don't. Yet so many basic questions remained unresolved -- about the pipeline's environmental and economic impacts, about whether the country actually needs the oil -- that it was reasonable to decide that a decision was impossible without further study. 
The White House was also troubled by allegations that the State Department, the agency in charge of the pipeline review, had contracted its environmental studies to a company with ties to TransCanada, the pipeline operator. According to other government agencies, the department has consistently low-balled the greenhouse gas emissions that extracting heavy oil from Canada's tar sand are likely to cause. And the route it had chosen for the 1,700-mile pipeline has aroused bipartisan fury in places like Nebraska, where voters from both parties fear that a leak would poison water supplies.
All this was reason enough for Mr. Obama to return to the drawing board. But it was also important, he suggested in his statement, to step back and put the pipeline in the larger context of other strategies the administration is pursuing to strengthen America's energy security -- doubling the fuel efficiency of cars and trucks, developing alternative fuels, responsibly expanding America's own oil and gas resources.
As it happens, the tar sands announcement came shortly after the release of the administration's proposed five-year plan for offshore oil drilling. The plan can be improved but is modest compared with the drill-now-and-everywhere strategies favored by industry. Most new development would occur in areas like the Gulf of Mexico, the Atlantic Coast would be off the table altogether, and leasing in the Arctic would not occur until 2016 and then only after extensive environmental review.
The plan was a reminder that there are still huge untapped reserves in American waters -- 90 billion barrels, conservatively. Add these reserves to big new discoveries in deep shale formations in Texas and North Dakota, couple them with strategies to use less oil, and the Keystone XL seems less urgent to America's energy security.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (91%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); OIL SANDS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (69%); LABOR UNIONS (57%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (91%); ARCTIC (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



545 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: A Taste for Reality TV Seen in Popularity of Presidential Debates

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
On Saturday night, eight Republican candidates will gather in South Carolina for the 10th presidential debate -- and much will be riding on the outcome.
More than in previous years, the televised presidential debates have exerted outsize influence on the tone and direction of the campaign, with each one seeming to have more influence over the course of the contest than the last one.
Gov. Rick Perry of Texas will have another chance to either prove he can recover from historic stumbles -- including his nearly minute-long spell of forgetfulness on Wednesday -- or cement his reputation as one of the worst presidential debaters. 
Jon M. Huntsman Jr., a former ambassador to China, could shine since the debate is intended to focus on foreign policy. And Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, gets another chance to do something other than criticize the news media for asking terrible questions.
And all of the candidates will be presented with another huge audience -- the debate on Wednesday was the most popular cable program in its time slot.
Why have the debates had such an impact?
There are some expected answers: People are worried in these tough economic times; new technology, like Twitter, draws people into the shows; there is nothing else on television.
But there are also cultural explanations. Steve Schmidt, who helped run Senator John McCain's presidential campaign in 2008, said the debates have grown in importance as Americans have become attached to reality television shows.
''All of these debates are taking place at a moment in time where shows like 'American Idol' have become deeply ingrained in the culture,'' Mr. Schmidt said. ''People watch a performance and render an immediate judgment.''
These days, he said, those judgments are made not by professional journalists who seek out campaign staff members in the ''spin room'' immediately after the debate and shape the conclusions.
''Now, it's instantaneous,'' Mr. Schmidt said. ''It's a harsh, tough verdict that is rendered not by the political insiders but by the body politic.''
It is also the case that the current crop of Republican candidates are not the typical collection of middle-age, somewhat boring governors or senators, said Ronald A. Klain, former chief of staff to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., and who has served as a debate coach to numerous presidential and vice-presidential candidates. Many are genuine media personalities who know how to use the television camera to their advantage.
Representative Michele Bachmann gained national attention before her presidential bid from her television appearances. Herman Cain spent years as a radio talk show host and giving speeches -- good preparation for the debate spotlight. Newt Gingrich made a post-Congressional career out of opining on television programs.
''The Republican field is more of a collection of media figures than it is actual candidates,'' Mr. Klain noted. ''They are highly telegenic. If your job was to cast a reality series called 'The Republican Presidential Debates,' this is the group that you would want cast for that program.''
Most people, he said, like to watch a narrative that plays out over the course of several episodes. The debates this year have had that kind of feel for viewers.
''The up and down of all the non-Romney candidates have given people a reason to tune in to see who's up and who's down,'' he said. ''There's a drama.''
Will Michele Bachmann do better? Will Mitt Romney and Rick Perry fight? Can Mr. Perry bounce back? Will Mr. Cain get ''The Question''? Tune in next time!
Mr. Klain recalled the advice of Harry Thomason, a television producer and a close friend of former President Bill Clinton. He told Mr. Clinton in 1992 not to think of each debate as a standalone event.
''You need to think about the debates as like a miniseries,'' Mr. Klain recalled Mr. Thomason as saying two decades ago. ''There had to be a narrative for why you would tune in, week after week, to watch these things.''
Mr. Schmidt said reality shows have elevated performance over substance. From now on, he said, a smooth talker will always do better in presidential debates than someone who has trouble articulating ideas.
''Who gets kicked off the island, or who gets kicked off the talent stage, is now deeply embedded in the American culture,'' he added.
That kind of drama may also be attracting more viewers among active Democrats who do not have anything else to do in the evening. With no debates of their own to fill their time, curious liberals are tuning in to get their fill of televised political combat.
''I'm watching more Republican debates than I did in 2008,'' Mr. Klain said, chuckling.
(He might be watching for strategic reasons; President Obama might call on him to help him prepare for debates against whoever wins the Republican nomination.)
Debates have mattered before, of course. Mr. Klain recalled that Senator John F. Kerry virtually erased a huge lead by President George W. Bush after the first debate of the 2004 general election campaign.
But the proliferation of political commentary on blogs, news Web sites and even Twitter has made it too easy to experience the political campaigns entirely through the eyes of other people. That makes people eager to find out for themselves.
''We're a little more in a 'see it yourself, judge for yourself' moment,'' Mr. Klain said.
Mike McCurry, a former press secretary for Mr. Clinton and one of the chairmen of the nonpartisan commission that organizes the general election debates, said voters were looking for ''nonscripted'' moments.
They are ''tired of traditional political vocabulary, and they crave the genuine and the authentic,'' he said.
Republican Debate
WHEN:Saturday at 8 p.m. Eastern time
WHERE: Wofford College in Spartanburg, S.C.
PARTICIPANTS: Michele Bachmann, Herman Cain, Newt Gingrich, Jon M. Huntsman Jr., Ron Paul, Rick Perry, Mitt Romney, Rick Santorum
SPONSORS: CBS News, The National Journal, the South Carolina Republican Party.
ON THE WEB: Live blogging and analysis: nytimes.com/politics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL DEBATES (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REALITY TELEVISION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (87%); GOVERNORS (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%); WRITERS (50%); VERDICTS (50%)

PERSON: JON HUNTSMAN (58%); RICK PERRY (58%); HERMAN CAIN (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%); RON KLAIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



546 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: Tax Burdens Tilt Coastal, and System's Fairness Is Debated

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
THE wealthy have been the subject of much discussion lately, from the protesters on Wall Street to lawmakers in Washington. President Obama has even provided a definition of who's wealthy in arguing that taxes should be raised for those households with incomes of at least $250,000 a year.
But is that really the marker of wealth? After all, earning $250,000 a year in New York does not buy as much as it does in, say, Iowa or Alabama.
Or put another way: Why doesn't the tax code account for regional differences in tax burdens? 
While the question begins with households earning more than $250,000 a year in places like Boston, New York and San Francisco, the issue of fairness is not just for the top 2 percent to ponder. Workers at all income levels are affected by regional differences in federal taxes. Local taxes may also be high in these areas, though economists argue that residents at least get something for those taxes, like good schools and safe neighborhoods. According to David Yves Albouy, an assistant professor of economics at the University of Michigan and an expert on geographic tax inequality, teachers in New York may be among the highest paid in the country, but their salaries don't give them any extra buying power because the cost of living is so high.
The average pay of a New York public school teacher in 2009-10 was $78,885. But rent for a two-bedroom apartment in Manhattan averages $3,715 a month.
In an article, ''The Unequal Geographic Burden of Federal Taxation,'' published in the Journal of Political Economy in 2009, Dr. Albouy wrote that wages in New York were 21 percent higher than the national average. At a 33 percent federal income tax rate, workers were paying a 7 percent federal surtax for working here. But even for someone making $50,000 a year, that surcharge worked out to about $3,500 extra a year, he said.
''A lot of the 1 percent lives in New York,'' he said, ''but I'd say 98 percent of the people who live in New York are part of the 99 percent, and they get the short end of the stick.''
But while one presidential candidate after another has been proposing new tax regimes, none so far has mentioned equalizing the regional differences.
''The system is not totally fair, but I guess the question is, who is it most unfair to?'' said Mark Luscombe, principal federal tax analyst for CCH, a publisher of research and software for tax lawyers and accountants. ''It's most unfair to the New Yorker, and no one has much sympathy for the New Yorker.''
Or as Joseph J. Thorndike, the director of the tax history project at Tax Analysts, said, any regional adjustment ''might as well be called the Bicoastal Elite Tax Relief Act.'' He added, ''It would shower all these benefits on Palo Alto and New York City, and the rest of the country would be outraged.''
Still, there are some interesting issues here that raise questions about how we think about fairness and taxation. If nothing else, they will help inform your next cocktail party conversation (or argument).
CURRENT SYSTEM The debate over regional differences is nothing new, Dr. Thorndike said. When the modern tax code went into effect in 1913, ''it was viewed as a way to tax those rich Northerners, and to be fair, that's what it was,'' he said.
But starting in World War II, when the tax base widened beyond the wealthiest people, he said, the tax system had to be sold as a shared sacrifice. With this came the idea of horizontal equity -- that people at the same level pay the same rate across America.
Today, residents of New York pay about $15 billion a year more in federal taxes than they receive in benefits, Dr. Albouy said. He noted that that money would make quite a dent in the cost of the Second Avenue subway line, which is estimated at $17 billion.
Still, the high earners living in expensive areas are able to take deductions that reduce some of their federal tax burden. These include breaks on mortgage interest, state income and property taxes and charitable gifts.
A flat tax may seem, at first glance, more equitable, but it may mean that people in high-cost areas would lose the deductions that lower their tax bills, Dr. Luscombe said.
GEOGRAPHICALLY FAIR SYSTEM So how would you make the tax system fairer for people who live in more expensive regions?
A cost-of-living adjustment is one way. The military offers that to soldiers stationed in different parts of the country. But measures of the cost of living are considered pretty inaccurate.
''We have good consumer price indices, but they just show the change in prices between Detroit and New York City,'' said Rudolph G. Penner, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office. ''They don't show a true cost of living in different places.''
He added that measuring such costs for tax purposes could be too abstract. ''If you like mountains, you have a certain level of happiness in Colorado that you can't have in Kansas,'' he said.
Another way to equalize the federal tax burden would be to look at its impact on wages and employment, which is what Dr. Albouy did. He said that companies were willing to pay workers more in high-expense areas but only up to a point. Even if workers are more productive in New York or Palo Alto, once the cost of those workers gets too high, the company will hire cheaper, if less productive, workers elsewhere. This is obviously at play in moving jobs overseas, but it has also been a factor in moving jobs from the Northeast to the South and Southwest.
''Your wage reflects the fact that firms are more productive in these larger cities, but you don't get to keep that premium,'' he said. ''Your landlord is going to charge you that additional amount. You're not consuming more than you would anywhere else.''
Dr. Albouy calculated that the two cities that are most balanced between what their residents pay the federal government and what they receive are Harrisburg, Pa., and Peoria, Ill. (The least balanced, in terms of overpaying, is not New York, but San Francisco.)
WHAT COULD HAPPEN? Jerrold Nadler, a Democratic representative whose district includes parts of the West Side and other affluent sections of Manhattan, introduced the Tax Equity Act in 2009, which proposed ''to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for adjustments in the individual income tax rates to reflect regional differences in the cost of living.''
The bill mustered eight co-sponsors, all from New York except for Representative Jim Himes, who represents Fairfield County, Conn. It went nowhere.
In September, Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said that ''$250,000 makes you really rich in Mississippi, but it doesn't make you rich at all in New York, and there ought to be some kind of scale based on the cost of living on how much you pay.''
Of course, people in Mississippi surely feel they pay enough in taxes, and their elected officials are not likely to ask the federal government to charge them more. This alone makes a change politically infeasible. But there is something else stopping a geographic adjustment to the tax code.
Eugene Steuerle, the economic coordinator of the 1984 Treasury Department study that led to the Tax Reform Act of 1986, said he could see both sides of the argument. But he came down against making any change based on geography.
''At modest income levels, the cost of food might make a big difference between New York and Kansas,'' he said. Yet computing that difference would be a bureaucratic nightmare. ''Once you pick a formula you get into this box and have to adjust it all the time -- and the adjustments are infinite.''
Alas, the tax inequity is likely to remain the stuff of cocktail party conversation. But consider this thought from Dr. Albouy: ''The federal government effectively taxes workers for living in large cities while subsidizing them to live in rural areas.''
In the end, you can decide which side of that equation you want to be on.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''I'd say 98 percent of the people who live in New York are part of the 99 percent, and they get the short end of the stick,'' David Yves Albouy says. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAX LAW (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); COST OF LIVING (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (76%); TAX CONSULTING (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); PUBLISHING (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



547 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Friend With Benefits

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
Government is not the enemy. Not always. Don't believe that right-wing malarkey.
In fact, for millions of Americans down on their luck and at the end of their rope, they can quickly find that government is their last friend left. Governmental assistance can prevent the certainty of a hungry night and a homeless tomorrow. It can mean the difference between the comfort of stability and the ravages of poverty.
This function is now more important than ever, even as it is under more pressure than ever. 
We learned this week that not only are there more poor people in America than had been previously reported, but that the only thing keeping millions more out of poverty are the very same social safety net programs that many Republicans despise.
For decades, experts on both sides of the poverty debate have complained that the official government measure is flawed because it doesn't account for measures like benefits from government programs, health care costs or taxes.
So, to address those concerns, the Census Bureau this week released a Supplemental Poverty Measure, or S.P.M. The new measure changed the composition of the poor but found that it was a larger group -- the official 2010 poverty rate was 15.2 percent, but the S.P.M. rate was 16 percent.
Even more important, the report highlighted the role government programs play in mitigating it. Many of these programs were expanded under the Obama administration with the much-maligned stimulus package. Now many of those expansions are scheduled to expire, and a new crop of callous Republicans threatens to not just trim the fat but to cut the meat.
For instance, the report shows that if the earned income tax credit, a refundable tax credit for low-to-moderate-income workers designed to offset Social Security taxes and encourage work, was not included in the S.P.M., the poverty rate would jump from 16 percent to 18 percent. For children, it would jump from 18.2 percent to 22.4 percent.
The stimulus bill increased the credit for people with three or more children and for married people so they would not have to face a ''marriage penalty.'' Those increases will expire next year. Furthermore, as The Christian Science Monitor's Tax VOX blog points out, almost all of the Republican presidential candidates' economic plans would ''cut back or eliminate refundable tax credits.''
As for the Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program for food stamps, the report says that without it, the overall poverty rate would move from 16 percent to 17 percent and for children it would move from 18.2 percent to 21.2 percent.
The stimulus bill increased financing for food stamps, but those increases are being phased out. And, as the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities has pointed out, the Paul Ryan Republican budget presented earlier this year proposed slashing nutrition assistance by $127 billion over 10 years.
Obama's stimulus package may not have provided the jolt to the economy that the country wanted and needed, but it no doubt kept a jobs and poverty crisis from becoming a catastrophe. The administration's inability to effectively convey that point is its own catastrophe.
A vast majority of people now believe that Obama's economic policies have failed. After Republicans hammered that point for so long, most people can only see what didn't get better, not what didn't get worse. A Gallup poll released on Wednesday found that 67 percent of Americans disapprove of the president's handling of the economy.
This level of dissatisfaction makes people open to his cartoonish competitors' Grinch-ish alternatives to economic policy, which invariably means the rich would get more and pay less and the poor would pay more get less. At Wednesday's debate, Michele Bachmann said that everyone should pay at least ''the price of two Happy Meals a year'' in taxes. And this is a candidate for president. Of The United States.
The Tax Policy Center has found that Herman Cain's now-famous 9-9-9 would cause 84 percent of families to pay higher taxes. Even After Cain changed his tune and said ''if you're at or below the poverty level, your plan isn't ''9-9-9, it's 9-0-9,'' an expert with the Tax Policy Center told NPR that ''we'd still expect to see close to 84 percent of families being made worse off by the Cain plan.''
In Wednesday's debate, Mitt Romney reiterated, with a straight face, that he prefers to let the foreclosure process happen instead of hold off ''the normal market process,'' or in plain English: help people to stay in their homes (as the Obama administration is attempting to do).
The lack of empathy for the poor and suffering on the part of the right is nothing short of breathtaking.
And it comes as Gallup reported on Thursday that, ''Americans' access to basic needs is now at the lowest level recorded since Gallup and Healthways began tracking it in January 2008.'' It explained that, ''the Basic Access Index -- which comprises 13 measures, including Americans' ability to afford food, housing, and health care -- declined to a record-low score of 81.2 in October. This means Americans' access to basic needs, though still high in an absolute sense, is now worse than it was throughout the economic crisis and recession.''
And a Brookings Institution report released last Thursday said that ''after declining in the 1990s, the population in extreme-poverty neighborhoods -- where at least 40 percent of individuals live below the poverty line -- rose by one-third from 2000 to 2005-9.''
The Obama administration is far from perfect, and government is not beyond becoming bloated and being abused, but right is right and truth is truth: government can play a very positive role in protecting the less-well-off from the interests of the more-well-off, and this administration's view of government is much more benevolent than those of the people who are seeking to unseat it.
That's worth remembering.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Preventing More Poverty: Data show the effect on the Supplemental Poverty Measure rate in 2010 if each item is removed from the calculation, holding all else the same and assuming no behavioral changes. (Source: The United States Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); POVERTY RATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (87%); TAX RELIEF (87%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); NUTRITION (77%); FOOD STAMPS (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); CENSUS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (67%); MARRIAGE (66%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (63%); INCOME TAX (63%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (82%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



548 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Premier Says Japan Will Join Pacific Free Trade Talks

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- In a contentious move that could make or break his government, Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda said Friday that Japan would join talks toward an ambitious pan-Pacific free trade pact. The accord would potentially open up new markets for Japanese exporters but enrage the nation's powerful farmers, who say their livelihoods would be wiped out.
Mr. Noda is set to declare Japan's intent at the Asia-Pacific economic summit meeting in Hawaii this weekend, where President Obama will promote the far-reaching Trans-Pacific Partnership regional trade agreement, which aims to cut import tariffs to zero. Nine governments, including those of Australia and Singapore, are involved in the discussions. 
Speaking at a nationally televised press conference, Mr. Noda contended that global competition would ultimately build a stronger domestic economy, including a more competitive agricultural sector. He invoked his own farming roots, reminiscing about being carried on his mother's back as she helped till the fields at her family's farm.
''The smell of dirt forms the very basis of my childhood memories,'' Mr. Noda said. ''I am determined to preserve Japan's traditional culture, its beautiful farming villages. But in order for Japan, which has built its prosperity on trade, to pass on its affluence to future generations, it must tap into the vitality of the Asia-Pacific region.''
The United States, which buys much more from Japan than it sells to the country, has long pushed for better access to Japanese markets. Tokyo's participation would bring greater credibility to the nascent pact, analysts say, but could also complicate talks if the Japanese government is unable, or unwilling, to commit to slashing some tariffs.
For Japan, the pact would mean lower tariffs in the region for companies like Toyota and Sony as well as cheaper imports into Japan.
But it could also result in more global competition for highly protected domestic sectors, like farming. Just entering the negotiations on the trade pact would represent the biggest challenge yet to a small but powerful agricultural lobby, made up mostly of rice farmers, which has long wielded an outsize influence over Japanese politics.
Japan's rice farmers have long been protected under sky-high tariffs, including a 777.7 percent levy on imported rice. They have already unleashed a vocal and highly emotional campaign against the pact, portraying it as a threat to the very fabric of Japanese society.
Their position has garnered strong public support, despite assertions from free trade proponents that Japan's consumers would benefit from cheaper imports -- especially of food, for which they pay some of the highest prices in the world.
''It's not only farming that will perish,'' said Shun Shirai of J. A. Youth, which represents young farmers. ''Japan's countryside, our way of life, will be destroyed.'' This week, about 300 of the group's members staged a sit-in in Tokyo to protest the pact, echoing arguments heard in parts of Europe and other countries where rural traditions are seen as threatened.
''However much we try to reform, we will be no match against large industrial farming in Australia or the United States,'' Mr. Shirai said. ''And does Japan really want to be dependent on imports for something as vital as food?''
Some within Mr. Noda's own Democratic Party have vehemently opposed the pact, raising the specter of a party split that could doom his two-month-old government.
''We are looking at the prospect of totally free trade, of putting our entire fate at the mercy of free markets,'' said Hiroshi Kawauchi, a leader of a sizable group within Mr. Noda's party opposed to the agreement. ''In free trade, the strong get stronger, and the weak get weaker.''
''If Mr. Noda ignores our caution,'' Mr. Kawauchi added, ''Mr. Noda can expect support for his administration to wane.''
Exporters have promoted their case for more open trade, saying Japan risks being left behind in the global economy. They say that joining the Pacific pact will enable Japan to compete better against regional rivals like South Korea, which has embraced free trade pacts.
South Korea has a free trade agreement with the European Union and recently negotiated a pact with the United States. Japan does not have trade agreements with either beyond the basic framework of the World Trade Organization.
Calls for free trade have reached a higher pitch in recent months, as Japan's exporters have struggled to stay competitive amid a surge in the yen, especially compared with the South Korean won.
When the free trade agreement between the United States and South Korea takes effect as early as January, the South Korean automaker Hyundai will be exempt from a 2.5 percent tariff on exports to the United States that Japanese rivals, including Toyota and Honda, will still have to pay.
That may seem tiny, exporters say, but it adds to the heavy disadvantage caused by the strong yen.
Yoko Ishikura, a professor of global business at Keio University in Tokyo, said at a recent economic forum that the government had ''not done a great job of explaining the benefits, and the debate has become emotionally charged.'' That could make the trade pact ''a turning point, a make-or-break moment for Mr. Noda,'' Professor Ishikura said.
But, she added, ''we need to ask: 'What if Japan doesn't join?' That could be the bigger risk.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); RICE FARMING (89%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); AGRICULTURE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (54%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (91%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (91%)

PERSON: YOSHIHIKO NODA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%) HAWAII, USA (79%) JAPAN (99%); ASIA (93%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



549 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 811 words

PERSON: Henry D. Owen 

HEADLINE: Henry D. Owen, 91, Dies; Shaped Global Fiscal Order

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

 BODY:
Henry D. Owen, an influential diplomat who helped institutionalize global economic summitry in the 1970s and who was considered an intellectual framer of the elite round table known as the Trilateral Commission, died on Nov. 5 in Washington. He was 91.
His death was confirmed by his son Chris. 
Mr. Owen worked in the State Department as an economic counselor specializing in international affairs under four presidents between 1946 and 1968.
In 1978, President Jimmy Carter appointed him ambassador at large for international economic summits, an office he used to help organize and regularize the ad hoc series of meetings among industrialized democracies that had begun in the early 1970s after the economic aftershocks of the 1973 OPEC oil embargo. Initially known as the Group of 6, the meetings became the Group of 7, then the Group of 8.
With his counterparts in other countries, Mr. Owen set the agenda and sketched the framework for agreements on trade, monetary policy and energy planning signed by heads of state at the Group of 7 meetings in 1979 and 1980, a period of worldwide recession laced with anxiety over the Islamic revolution and the unfolding American hostage crisis in Iran.
Mr. Owen played an important, though largely unheralded, role in establishing an informal discussion group for business and intellectual leaders known as the Trilateral Commission, which was officially founded in 1973 by David Rockefeller and Zbigniew Brzezinski, the foreign policy expert who later became national security adviser to President Carter.
''He had a lot to do with framing the original concept'' of the Trilateral Commission, Mr. Brzezinski said in an interview on Thursday. ''In his quiet way, he was profoundly influential.''
Among those who have been commission members are Mr. Carter, Dick and Lynne Cheney, Bill Clinton, Al Gore, Henry A. Kissinger, Richard C. Holbrooke, Madeleine K. Albright, Robert S. McNamara, Paul A. Volcker, Alan Greenspan and Paul D. Wolfowitz.
The concept behind the commission was to make Japan a full economic and political partner with the United States and Europe. Mr. Owen, who had served with the American occupation forces in Japan after World War II and later as an economist in the State Department specializing in Far East development, admired Japanese culture and advocated acknowledging Japan as a world economic power.
Like Mr. Brzezinski, he believed that informal meetings among Japanese, American and European thinkers and leaders would lead to more tangible and official trade ties. (The Trilateral Commission, later the focus of ''world government'' conspiracy theories, was also viewed as an effort to further secure Japan's emerging power on the side of the West in the cold war.)
The commission's early gatherings, considered by many foreign policy experts as the conceptual forerunners of the global economic summits of today, were organized mainly by Mr. Owen.
Mr. Owen, a soft-spoken man who once bragged that he owned only one necktie, was content to remain largely behind the scenes. ''Prominence and influence are in inverse proportions to each other,'' he told The New York Times in 1978. ''The less you are written about in the press, the less other people see you as a threat, and the more attention they pay to your ideas on their merits.''
Henry David Oyen was born on Aug. 26, 1920, in Forest Hills, Queens. He was the only child of Olaf and Sara Oyen. (He simplified the spelling of his surname to Owen as a young man.) His father, a Norwegian who came to the United States at age 3, was a writer of adventure stories. His mother was a writer and freelance reporter.
Mr. Owen studied in Switzerland and in New York, graduating from the Birch Wathen High School, a Manhattan private school, before enrolling at Harvard. He graduated in 1941 and served in the Navy during World War II.
From 1952 to 1968, Mr. Owen worked as an economist in the State Department's Policy Planning Council, sometimes referred to as the department's think tank. He was its chairman from 1966 to 1969 and recruited Mr. Brzezinski, then a professor of foreign policy at Columbia University, to work on his staff.
In addition to his son, Mr. Owen is survived by his wife of 55 years, Hertha; another son, Francis; and five grandchildren.
Mr. Owen was director of foreign policy studies at the Brookings Institution from 1969 to 1977. He was later a consultant to investment firms including Salomon Brothers and was co-founder of the philanthropic group Capital Partners for Education.
Robert D. Hormats, under secretary of state for economic affairs in the Obama administration, described Mr. Owen as one of the great American ''sherpas.'' A term of art in diplomacy, a sherpa is someone who does most of the necessary work in advance of a summit meeting so that the leader can show up and take credit for negotiating a good deal.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Henry D. Owen, right, with President Jimmy Carter in 1978 after returning from the Group of 7 meeting in West Germany. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); CARTELS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); RECESSION (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); COLD WAR (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); WORLD WAR II (60%); MONETARY POLICY (53%); RELIGION (52%); HOSTAGE TAKING (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%)

JIMMY CARTER (89%); BILL CLINTON (72%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); AL GORE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



550 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Under Pressure, Italy and Greece Move More Forcefully on Debt Crisis

BYLINE: By GAIA PIANIGIANI and NIKI KITSANTONIS; Gaia Pianigiani reported from Rome, and Niki Kitsantonis from Athens. Alan Cowell contributed reporting from London.

 BODY:
ROME -- With Europe under mounting pressure to act quickly to tackle its debt crisis, the leaders of Italy and Greece moved forcefully on Friday to reinvigorate their governments and show their sincerity about economic austerity. Financial markets rallied on the news.
The Italian Senate approved a package of austerity measures, a first step toward easing Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi from office, while in Athens, the leaders of a new three-party coalition completed details of a national unity government. To speed the process in the Italian Senate, opposition lawmakers refrained from voting, allowing the legislation to pass by a margin of 156 to 12. 
The uncommon burst of activity will enable Italy's lower house to complete parliamentary approval of the package on Saturday. Mr. Berlusconi promised this week to resign once the measures were approved, permitting a new leader to be appointed as the head of a technocratic government. He is expected to step down Saturday or Sunday.
Mario Monti, a former European commissioner, has been widely mentioned as the front-runner to replace Mr. Berlusconi, and he could take over as early as Monday.
In Greece, after similar maneuvers to replace elected leaders with respected, veteran officials known for their expertise rather than their political skills, Lucas Papademos, the prime minister chosen by the three-party coalition, unveiled his cabinet choices, who were sworn in by midafternoon. Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos -- the public face of the country's austerity effort -- will remain in his post, as will other important ministers of the departing government of George A. Papandreou, the former prime minister. Mr. Papademos also brought in several members of opposition parties.
Days of political turmoil roiled bond markets this week, pushing the cost of borrowing in Italy to levels that economists regard as unsustainable and adding to the pressures on politicians. The yield on Italy's 10-year bond, a barometer of investor anxiety, eased back to about 6.6 percent on Friday after having exceeded 7 percent at the height of the crisis.
By other measures, the promised changes in Greece and Italy heartened investors as well, at least for the moment: the leading stock market indexes in Britain, France and Germany all gained on Friday, and the rally extended to Wall Street, where the Dow Jones average ended the day 259.89 points, or 2.19 percent, higher, and broader market indicators also surged. In foreign exchange trading, the value of the euro rose to nearly $1.37 from $1.35 the day before.
Despite the financial markets' reactions on Friday, deep-seated worry persists about Europe's efforts to prevent the debt crisis from plunging the entire global economy into a tailspin. In a sign of American impatience, President Obama called Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and Presidents Nicolas Sarkozy of France and Giorgio Napolitano of Italy late Thursday.
Timothy F. Geithner, the American Treasury secretary, also had the euro on his mind. ''The crisis in Europe remains the central challenge to global growth,'' he said at a meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Hawaii. ''It is crucial that Europe move quickly to put in place a strong plan to restore financial stability.''
Mr. Geithner also urged Asian and Pacific economies to take up the slack as Europe confronts slowing economic growth. ''We are all directly affected by the crisis in Europe,'' he said, ''but the economies gathered here are in a better position than most to take steps to strengthen growth in the face of these pressures from Europe.''
In Rome, to prolonged applause from other lawmakers, Mr. Monti took a seat in the upper house of Parliament for the first time on Friday after he was appointed a senator for life. Mr. Monti has already held talks with President Napolitano and the speaker of the Senate, strengthening speculation that he is the leading candidate to succeed Mr. Berlusconi.
The legislation approved by the Senate is aimed at reducing Italy's $2.6 trillion public debt and lifting growth, but the European Union has already said that Italy will need to take further measures.
The legislation includes selling $21 billion of state assets and increasing the retirement age to 67 from 65 by 2026. It also sets the stage for a liberalization of closed professions and labor laws, a gradual reduction in government ownership of local services and tax breaks for companies that hire young workers.
The Berlusconi era may end this weekend, but its legacy will linger for years to come. ''Unfortunately, the end of Berlusconi won't bring the end of the worst political class in Europe,'' the columnist Antonio Padellaro wrote on Thursday in the left-leaning newspaper Il Fatto Quotidiano. ''But it risks giving rise to a season of zombies, old Christian Democrats resuscitated to divvy up the ruins of our poor country in the name of national unity.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Urged on by the cabinet officials Roberto Calderoli, left, and Giulio Tremonti, Italy's Senate passed austerity measures on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALESSIA PIERDOMENICO/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Mario Monti, above, a former European Union commissioner, is expected to replace Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREAS SOLARO/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); STOCK INDEXES (65%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); EURO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (90%); GEORGE PAPANDREOU (79%); GIORGIO NAPOLITANO (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (92%) ITALY (99%); GREECE (94%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011



551 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Billions Wasted on Billing

BYLINE: EZEKIEL J. EMANUEL


HIGHLIGHT: Doctors, hospitals and insurers waste billions of dollars on paperwork and payments. 

 BODY:
LAST year I had to have a minor biopsy. Every time I went in for an appointment, I had to fill out a form requiring my name, address, insurance information, emergency contact person, vaccination history, previous surgical history and current medical problems, medications and allergies. I must have done it four times in just three days. Then, after my procedure, I received bills - and, even more annoying, statements of charges that said they weren't bills - almost daily, from the hospital, the surgeon, the primary care doctor, the insurance company.
Imagine that repeated millions of times daily and you have one of the biggest money wasters in our health care system. Administration accounts for roughly 14 percent of what the United States spends on health care, or about $360 billion per year. About half of all administrative costs - $163 billion in 2009 - are borne by Medicare, Medicaid and insurance companies. The other half pays for the legions employed by doctors and hospitals to fill out billing forms, keep records, apply for credentials and perform the myriad other administrative functions associated with health care.
The range of expert opinions on how much of this could be saved goes as high as $180 billion, or half of current expenditures. But a more conservative and reasonable estimate comes from David Cutler, an economist at Harvard, who calculates that for the whole system - for insurers as well as doctors and hospitals - electronic billing and credentialing could save $32 billion a year. And United Health comes to a similar estimate, with 20 percent of savings going to the government, 50 percent to physicians and hospitals and 30 percent to insurers. For health care cuts to matter, they have to be above 1 percent of total costs, or $26 billion a year, and this conservative estimate certainly meets that threshold.
How do we get to these savings? First, electronic health records would eliminate the need to fill out the same forms over and over. An electronic credentialing system shared by all hospitals, insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid, state licensing boards and other government agencies, like the Drug Enforcement Administration, could reduce much of the paperwork doctors are responsible for that patients never see. Requiring all parties to use electronic health records and an online system for physician credentialing would reduce frustration and save billions.
But the real savings is in billing. There are at least six steps in the process: 1) determining a patient's eligibility for services; 2) obtaining prior authorization for specialist visits, tests and treatments; 3) submitting claims by doctors and hospitals to insurers; 4) verifying whether a claim was received and where in the process it is; 5) adjudicating denials of claims; and 6) receiving payment.
Substantial costs arise from the fact that doctors, hospitals and other care providers must bill multiple insurance companies. Instead of having a unified electronic billing system in which a patient could simply swipe an A.T.M.-like card for automatic verification of eligibility, claims processing and payment, we have a complicated system with lots of expensive manual data entry that produces costly mistakes.
The Affordable Care Act requires the Department of Health and Human Services to develop operating standards for electronic eligibility determination and payment - steps one and six - in the next few years, but we need to go further. We need the standard operating rules to encompass authorizing tests and treatments, submitting claims, verifying where in the process a claim is and the real-time adjudication of denials. And we must accelerate the process, covering all steps by 2015. Finally, the government needs to require that all parties - doctors, hospitals, insurers, government agencies - use the electronic systems.
This platform of electronic eligibility, claims and payment would - in addition to saving billions of dollars in paperwork - facilitate anti-fraud measures like those used by credit card companies. It would ease the administrative burden on doctors, letting them do the work that really matters - treating patients. Finally, it could improve care through built-in guidelines; if a doctor tried to schedule a stent implantation for a patient with stable heart disease, the system could tell him to try medication first; if he tried to order an M.R.I for a patient with normal back pain, it could tell him to prescribe physical therapy first.
There is nothing more infuriating than needless paperwork that wastes tens of billions of dollars. Banks, Fed Ex and scores of other businesses have eliminated paper bills and payments, and allow people to easily track transactions and packages online. It's not brain surgery. Health insurance billing can also be brought into the Internet era.
Next week, I'll write about broader, more systemic and bigger ways to save - concierge medicine for chronically ill patients and the bundling of payments.

        
Reforming Medicare's Payment System
        
The Health Payoffs of Time Banks
        
Slashing the Price of Health With Common Sense
        
Treating the Cause, Not the Illness
        
Arguing From the Facts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MEDICAL RECORDS (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (89%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); MEDICARE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); MEDICAID (72%); LICENSES & PERMITS (67%); CONSERVATISM (65%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (50%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (50%) Electric Health Records; Fees and Rates); health care; medicaid; Medicare; Prices (Fares; Electronic Health Records; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Hospitals; Medicaid; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Ezekiel J. Emanuel

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011



552 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: The Weekend Word: Engaging

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at the president's weekly address and happenings in Washington. 

 BODY:
Today's Times

        
President Obama began an eight-day trip around the Pacific Rim to inaugurate what he hopes will be a new era of American foreign policy -- engagement with the fast-growing economies of Asia and the Pacific, Jackie Calmes reports.

        
Gov. Rick Perry of Texas purchased nearly $1 million in advertising time on Fox News Channel, a sign that the Texas governor's team believes raising his standing nationally with Republican opinion-makers and donors is as important as doing so in key states, Jim Rutenberg reports.

        
After a few memorable setbacks in the early phases of his campaign, Newt Gingrich is getting another shot at emerging as the alternative to Mitt Romney, Trip Gabriel writes. A CBS News poll out Friday has him running near the front of the pack, alongside Mr. Romney and not far behind Herman Cain.
Weekly Address

        
President Obama spoke from the aircraft carrier U.S.S. Carl Vinson in San Diego to implore all Americans to rededicate themselves to serving the nation's veterans "as well as they've served us." With more than 850,000 veterans currently unemployed, Mr. Obama hopes to lead by example -- the federal government has hired 120,000 veterans, and asked private companies to hire or train 100,000 post-Sept. 11 veterans or their spouses by December 2013. "But we need to do more," he said while highlighting parts of his jobs bill that offer tax breaks to businesses that hire unemployed and disabled veterans. "On Thursday, I was pleased to see the Senate put partisanship aside and come together to pass these tax credits," he said. "After all, standing up for our veterans isn't a Democratic responsibility or a Republican responsibility -- it's an American responsibility."
Around the Web

        
An ad sponsored by Crossroads GPS - an organization backed by Karl Rove - was pulled from Montana airwaves for making false and misleading claims about Democratic Senator Jon Tester, the Huffington Post reports.

        
Despite a history of deriding lobbyists, top White House officials solicited help from at least 10 notable lobbyists, urging them to help promote the president's jobs plan, Politico reports.
Happenings in Washington

        
Ambassadors from El Salvador and Costa Rica will attend screenings of films from their respective countries in the fifth annual Alexandria Film Festival.
 

        
The Early Word: Laughing With Them
        
The Early Word: Defiant
        
The Early Word: Accusations
        
The Early Word: Flying on Another's Dime
        
The Early Word: Pressure

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LOBBYING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); CAUCUSES (76%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (76%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); VETERANS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (65%); TAX LAW (64%); FESTIVALS (60%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (60%); FILM (60%) The Early Word; The Caucus

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); KARL ROVE (58%); RICK PERRY (56%); JON TESTER (55%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (55%); HERMAN CAIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (90%); EL SALVADOR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011



553 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 2348 words

HEADLINE: Live Blogging the Republican Debate in S.C.

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The Republican candidates for president gather for a debate Saturday night in South Carolina, where Rick Perry will get a chance to redeem his fumbling, forgetful performance in Michigan on Wednesday night. 

 BODY:
The Republican candidates for president gather for a debate Saturday night in South Carolina, where Gov. Rick Perry of Texas will get a chance to redeem his fumbling, forgetful performance in Michigan on Wednesday night.
The debate, hosted by CBS News and the National Journal, is the first to focus on foreign policy and the first to be aired on a broadcast -- not a cable -- network. The first 60 minutes of the debate will air live on CBS; the last 30 minutes can be seen on the Web sites of the sponsors. 
Stay tuned to The Caucus as we blog the highlights of the debate. And return to The Caucus and NYTimes.com for coverage of Campaign 2012 in the days and weeks ahead.
9:59 P.M. | Wrapping Up the South Carolina Foreign Policy Debate
The first foreign policy debate for the Republican candidates for president has ended after highlighting some stark differences among the presidential hopefuls.
The candidates differed on harsh interrogation techniques, the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, and how to best deal with China. But the debate was a mostly civil affair, with little tension.
Mr. Perry did not make any serious flubs, and even managed to make fun of himself by referencing the difficulty he had in the prior debate. 
The candidates will assemble in Washington, D.C., for another debate about foreign policy on Nov. 22.
Stay tuned to The Caucus for further analysis of the debate and the rest of Campaign 2012.
- 
9:54 P.M. | Paul and Rivals Differ on Interrogation Techniques
The Republican candidates just avoided what could have been a contentious fight over harsh interrogation techniques. 
Asked repeatedly about whether it's acceptable for the government to use techniques like water-boarding to extract information from terrorism suspects, most of the candidates said it was. But after a while, Ron Paul had had enough.
Mr. Paul said he opposes the use of harsh interrogation techniques and argued that the president should not have had the power to order the killing of an American citizen who was part of al Qaeda.
"I don't think we should give up so easily on our rule of law," Mr. Paul said.
But his comments seemed to irk his colleagues. Mrs. Bachmann sounded the alarm, noting that Mr. Paul seemed to be suggesting that Mr. Obama should not have authorized the killing of Osama bin Laden.
"Ron Paul doesn't think so. But this was a very good idea for the president," Mrs. Bachmann said.
Mr. Perry seemed even more offended by Mr. Paul's suggestion. Puffing out his chest, Mr. Perry reminded the audience that he served in the Air Force and said that American soldiers are being killed at the hands of terrorists.
"For us not to have the ability to try to extract information from them to save our young people's lives is a travesty," he said. "This is war. I am for using those techniques."
Mr. Paul and his rivals might have continued the back and forth if they could, but the moderators were quick to move on to other subjects.
- 
9:37 P.M. | Candidates Diverge on Military Action Against Iran
The three Republican presidential candidates leading in the polls diverged on whether to take military action against Iran's nuclear program, in the wake of a report from United Nations weapons inspectors that the country has "carried out activities relevant to the development of a nuclear device." 
Herman Cain said he would focus on using economic sanctions and aid to the Iranian opposition to pressure the Iranian government.
But he said "the only way we can stop them is through economic means" - a comment that suggested he does not believe that the United States should take military action to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear device. Mr. Cain also said that he would "not at this time" entertain military assistance to the Iranian opposition.
While Mitt Romney agreed with Mr. Cain about the need for economic sanctions and aiding Iranian opponents of the regime in Tehran, he also said that if nothing else worked, he would use the military.
"If all else fails, if after all the work we've done there's nothing else we can do besides take military action, then of course you take military action," he said.
That appears to be the toughest language so far in this campaign about Iran's nuclear program from the former Massachusetts governor. A few days ago in an op-ed in The Wall Street Journal he said that he would "back up American diplomacy with a very real and very credible military option," but did not say that he would take definitely military action if there were no other options.
Mr. Romney's response on Saturday night seemed more in line with remarks he made during the campaign four years ago in which he had advocated military action if other efforts failed to halt Iran's nuclear goals. 
"If for some reasons they continue down their course of folly toward nuclear ambition, then I would take military action if that's available to us," he said in 2007, adding that such action could be "a number of options from blockade to bombardment of some kind."
Former Speaker Newt Gingrich, who has been rising in the polls, seemed to agree with Mr. Romney that if nothing else worked then the United States should take military action.
If "the dictatorship persists," Mr. Gingrich said, "you have to take whatever steps are necessary to break its capacity to have a nuclear weapon."
On the other hand, Representative Ron Paul of Texas was sharply critical of the idea of using force against Iran. He said that he fears that such action would be a repeat of the use of exaggerated and false threats that led to the Iraq war.
"I'm afraid what's going on right now is similar to the war propaganda that went on against Iraq," he said.
- 
9:31 P.M. | Newt Gingrich, Mr. Congeniality
Newt Gingrich relishes debates - they have been good for him - but when it comes to using the format to sharply distinguish his views, he would rather tangle with moderators than his rivals for the Republican nomination.
Mr. Gingrich was Mr. Congeniality Saturday night, agreeing with his fellow Republicans on most issues. He also declined to repeat a criticism of Mr. Romney that he made yesterday when he condemned the former Massachusetts governor with faint praise as a "good manager.'' 
"If you want to manage Washington,'' Mr. Gingrich said Friday, "he'd be a pretty good candidate," whereas he, Mr. Gingrich, stood for profound change.
Asked tonight to elaborate, Mr. Gingrich declined to criticize Mr. Romney. "We're here tonight to talk to the American people about why every one of us is better than Barack Obama,'' he said. Mr. Romney, he said, was "a friend who is a great business manager.''
- 
9:27 P.M. | Perry Offers Debate Spin on Israel
Concerned a little about Israel? 
Mr. Perry's campaign sent out the following press release shortly after the Texas governor suggested that he would zero out aid to Israel and make the country prove they deserve American commitments.
Gov. Perry on Israel
As Gov. Perry said during the debate, "Obviously, Israel is a special ally, and my bet is that we would be funding them at some substantial level. But it makes sense for everyone to come in at zero and make your case." 
Gov. Perry is a friend to Israel and understands the challenges faced by the country. He has visited the country several times and has personal relationships with Israeli leaders. While in Israel in 2009, he was also awarded the Defender of Jerusalem Award.
Gov. Perry recognizes Israel as a unique and vital political and economic partner for the United States in the Middle East. Our mutual commitment to democracy and free market principles makes us allies in the defense of western civilization.
Gov. Perry understands Israel's security challenges, particularly the threat of Iran, and the need to work together to counter this threat. Especially after the most recent IAEA report on Iran's nuclear activity, we must not let any daylight show between our two nations.
Gov. Perry understands the need to continue to work toward a solution to the Palestinian problem, but does not believe weakening Israel is the road to peace. A strong Israel is in the best interests of the United States and the region.
Gov. Perry believes that the actions by the Palestinians to circumvent the appropriate diplomatic process and go directly to the United Nations to seek a unilateral declaration of statehood is unacceptable and a direct threat to our friend and ally, Israel.
Under Rick Perry's presidency, any consideration of Palestinian statehood will depend upon a complete recognition of Israel as a Jewish state, the total rejection of terrorism and Palestinian leaders sitting down directly with Israel to negotiate a settlement. The aid and support of the United States will be based on the Palestinians meeting these requirements.
- 
9:05 P.M. | Perry: Even Israel Starts from Zero on Foreign Aid
Just in case you were wondering, Mr. Perry's warning that he would zero out foreign aid does apply to Israel.
In answer to a Twitter question, Mr. Perry said that he expected Israel would end up qualifying for significant aid, but would start at zero if he were president.
"Absolutely - every country would start at zero. Obviously, Israel is a special ally," he said. "Why in the world would our federal government get a pass on sending their tax dollars to any country."
That could come back to haunt Mr. Perry in the Republican primary, where voters often demand that candidates demonstrate a strong commitment to Israel.
They - and the Israelis - could feel offended by the idea that the country would have to demonstrate that it is deserving of the kind of aid it has been getting in the past.
But Mr. Perry clearly believes that there is more political benefit to be had by demonstrating his fiscal chops by suggesting that he will cut foreign aid with a hatchet - something that many fiscal conservatives will probably like.
- 
8:44 P.M. | A Tepid Response for Huntsman on Afghanistan
Jon M. Huntsman Jr. received very little applause for his declaration that the United States should simply bring home its troops from Afghanistan.
His position is far closer to that of many Democrats in Washington, and he drew only a tepid response from the mostly Republican audience in South Carolina.
"I say this nation's future is not Afghanistan. This nation's future is not Iraq," Mr. Huntsman said. "I don't want to be nation building in Afghanistan when this nation needs so desperately to be rebuilt."
Mr. Huntsman's views on the two wars America is waging puts him at odds with most of his rivals (Mr. Paul is the lone exception) and especially with Mr. Romney, who accuses Mr. Obama of not listening to the commanders in the field.
Why doesn't Mr. Huntsman's position get more coverage, attention and criticism from conservatives? Perhaps his place in the polls - he remains very much near the bottom in most surveys - keeps him out of the line of fire.
- 
8:49 P.M. | Perry Jokes About Debate Gaffe
If there was a good way for Mr. Perry to deal with his forgetfulness from the last debate, this was it.
Asked by moderator Scott Pelley about the Department of Energy, Mr. Perry interrupted.
"Glad you remembered it," Mr. Perry said, to applause from the audience.
"I've had some time to think about it, sir," Mr. Pelley responded.
"Me, too," Mr. Perry said, smiling broadly and getting even bigger applause.
Coming into the debate, Mr. Perry had to make sure that he didn't forget anything again. So far, he's avoided any further embarrassing moments - though his debate problems have tended to come after the first hour has gone.
- 
8:40 P.M. | Perry Says He Would Zero-Out Foreign Aid Budget
Mr. Perry suggested tonight that he would zero-out the foreign aid budget to all countries around the world, rethinking aid to friends and foes alike.
The governor of Texas cited Afghanistan, Pakistan and India as examples of countries that would no longer get any money from the United States at the beginning of a Perry administration.
He said countries would then be forced to prove that they deserve any money.
"The foreign aid budget in my administration will start at zero dollars," he said. "Zero dollars. And then we'll have a conversation."
Mr. Perry did not say whether he includes countries like Israel, England, France, Germany and other traditional allies. And some of his rivals challenged the idea that the United States would simply sever aid to places like Pakistan.
Mrs. Bachmann and Mr. Santorum both said the United States needs to continue aid and a strategic relationship with places like Pakistan, which has a nuclear weapon.
"We must engage them as friends, get over the difficulties that we have," Mr. Santorum said.
But Mr. Gingrich came to Mr. Perry's defense, saying that "you ought to start off at zero and say explain to me why I should give you a penny."
- 
8:20 P.M. | Candidates Critical of Obama on Iran
If there was any hope among Democrats that Republicans were going to have a tougher time attacking President Obama on foreign policy than they have on the economy, the debate tonight might make them think again.
Just moments after the debate began, the candidates started piling on Mr. Obama, accusing him of bungling the situation with Iran's pursuit of nuclear weapons.
"If we re-elect Barack Obama, Iran will have a nuclear weapon," Mitt Romney charged. "If you elect me as president, Iran will not have a nuclear weapon."
Newt Gingrich also slammed Mr. Obama, saying that his "administration skipped all the ways to be smart" when it comes to Iran. Those included a failure to do covert operations or work with Israel.
The answers suggest that the Republican candidates are not going to be cowed by the successes that Mr. Obama has had on the foreign policy front, including the killing of Osama bin Laden and other terrorist targets.
And more criticism is likely ahead as the debate moves onto other issues, including the president's handling of the situation in the Middle East.
- 

        
Live Blogging the Michigan Debate
        
Live Blogging the CNN Debate in Las Vegas
        
Debate Live Blog: Republicans Take On the Economy
        
The Gloves Come Off at Iowa Debate
        
Debate Watch: Student View, the Last Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TERRORISM (88%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (85%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); AL-QAEDA (67%); AIR FORCES (67%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (61%); ARMED FORCES (60%) debates; live blogging; Bachmann, Michele M; Cain, Herman; Gingrich, Newt; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Debates (Political); Presidential Election of 2012; CBS News; National Journal; South Carolina; Elections

ORGANIZATION: CBS News; National Journal

PERSON: RICK PERRY (91%); RON PAUL (89%); MICHELE BACHMANN (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%); HERMAN CAIN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) Bachmann, Michele M; Cain, Herman; Gingrich, Newt; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011



554 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Whatever Happened To Discipline and Hard Work?

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
THE Occupy Wall Street movement has raised important questions about the respect paid to wealth in our society. There is a good deal of unfairness in the American economy, and by deliberately targeting the ''top 1 percent,'' the demonstrators have opened up a dialogue that is quite useful.
Nonetheless, as someone from a conservative and libertarian background, I find that I am hearing too much talk about riches and not enough about values. It's worth recalling why so many Americans have respected the wealthy in the first place. 
The United States has always had a culture with a high regard for those able to rise from poverty to riches. It has had a strong work ethic and entrepreneurial spirit and has attracted ambitious immigrants, many of whom were drawn here by the possibility of acquiring wealth. Furthermore, the best approach for fighting poverty is often precisely not to make fighting poverty the highest priority. Instead, it's better to stress achievement and the pursuit of excellence, like a hero from an Ayn Rand novel. These are still at least the ideals of many conservatives and libertarians.
The egalitarian ideals of the left, which were manifest in a wide variety of 20th-century movements, have been wonderful for driving social and civil rights advances, and in these areas liberals have often made much greater contributions than conservatives have. Still, the left-wing vision does not sufficiently appreciate the power -- both as reality and useful mythology -- of the meritocratic, virtuous production of wealth through business. Rather, academics on the left, like the Columbia University economists Joseph E. Stiglitz and Jeffrey D. Sachs among many others, seem more comfortable focusing on the very real offenses of plutocrats and selfish elites.
In short, the traditional, pro-wealth cultural vision has a great appeal for me. But I must admit that it is showing some wear and tear, which may partly be why the criticisms made by the demonstrators at Zuccotti Park have so much resonance.
The first problem is that higher status for the wealthy can easily lead to crony capitalism. In public discourse social status judgments are often crude. Critical differences are lost, like the distinction between earning money through production for consumers, as Apple has done, and earning money through the manipulation of government, which heavily subsidized agribusinesses have done. The relevant question, in my view, is not about how much you have earned but about how you have earned it. To further confuse matters, many right-wing Republican politicians supported corporate bailouts and corporate welfare far beyond what was necessary to stabilize the economy, in doing so further muddying the difference between productive and predatory capitalism.
The second problem is that many conservatives have become so attached to their cultural vision that they have ceded sound, technocratic reasoning to the left and center. For instance there is a common willingness among conservatives to defend the Bush tax cuts, even though the evidence does not show much of an economic payoff.
Conservatives' own culture, and the sheer desire to validate wealth, discipline and reward through law and the tax code, may have convinced them that the tax cuts have been beneficial. Measuring the actual effects of a tax cut isn't always their main concern, even if they sometimes cite such numbers for rhetorical purposes. They feel in their bones that antagonism toward the rich is a dead end and so don't favor highly progressive taxes.
That rhetorical line appeals to tax-weary voters, and seems part of a core conservative vision, but it is treading on dangerous ground because it moves away from testable theory: those tax cuts have already been in place for many years, yet it remains to be seen when or if they will spur the economy.
The third problem is that the pro-wealth cultural vision may be overly optimistic about human willingness to embrace the idea of responsibility.
Conservatives often believe that much of the poverty in the United States is an issue of insufficient discipline and conscientiousness. In this view, not all children grow up inculcated with a strong enough devotion to education and career. Yet how can such a culture of discipline be spread? At least as far back as John Bright, a classical liberal in Victorian England, it has been argued that society should grant respect to business creators and to stern parents who instill discipline. And today, conservatives often say that supportive economic policy, including lighter taxation and greater freedom from regulation, will support this vision.
BUT are such moves, when carried out, actually shifting popular culture in a properly disciplined and conscientious direction? Not really. In fact, in the United States, the red states, where conservatives are more powerful, tend to have higher divorce rates and weaker educational systems than do blue states. Many Americans have not been personally persuaded by all the talk about pro-wealth and pro-discipline norms, least of all in the geographic strongholds of conservatism.
The counterintuitive tragedy is this: modern conservative thought is relying increasingly on social engineering through economic policy, by hoping that a weaker social welfare state will somehow promote individual responsibility. Maybe it won't.
For one thing, today's elites are so wedded to permissive values -- in part for their own pleasure and convenience -- that a new conservative cultural revolution may have little chance of succeeding. Lax child-rearing and relatively easy divorce may be preferred by some high earners, but would conservatives wish them on society at large, including the poor and new immigrants? Probably not, but that's often what we are getting.
In the future, complaints about income inequality are likely to grow and conservatives and libertarians won't have all the answers. Nonetheless, higher income inequality will increase the appeal of traditional mores -- of discipline and hard work -- because they bolster one's chances of advancing economically. That means more people and especially more parents will yearn for a tough, pro-discipline and pro-wealth cultural revolution. And so they should.
It remains to be seen how many of us are up to its demands.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Occupy Wall Street protest at Zuccotti Park in Lower Manhattan has raised questions about wealth and inequality in the United States. But American culture has long approved of wealth produced through a strong work ethic and an entrepreneurial spirit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMOTHY A. CLARY/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (88%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); ETHICS (73%); BAILOUTS (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (64%); AGRICULTURE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



555 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Retiring Without a Loan

BYLINE: By JANET MORRISSEY

 BODY:
IT has long been an element of the American dream for a homeowner to burn the mortgage note and celebrate, as soon as he or she is able to pay it off. Conventional wisdom held that this would help pave the way for a debt-free retirement.
But in today's shaky economy, many financial advisers are suggesting that homeowners wait. 
''I think paying off the mortgage would probably be a poor decision financially right now,'' said Gibran Nicholas, the chairman and chief executive of the Certified Mortgage Planning Specialist Institute, which trains and certifies financial planners who provide mortgage and real estate equity advice.
The decision, he says, depends upon cash flow and returns.
Debra Shultz, a managing director of the Manhattan Mortgage Company, says that homeowners approaching retirement must ensure that they have enough cash flow to cover daily expenses. Once the mortgage is paid off, she noted, ''you can't take it back unless you refinance and cash out again.''
And refinancing as a retiree could be difficult. ''Their qualified income might drop, which might inhibit them from refinancing and qualifying,'' she said.
In some cases, homeowners might receive a better return by investing the money they would have used to retire the mortgage. ''Why pay off a mortgage and save maybe 3 percent after tax when you could be putting that money into a muni bond earning 4.5 percent after tax right now?'' Mr. Nicholas said.
Returns could potentially be even greater if the retiree bought a vacation or retirement home on the cheap. ''I think there's going to be fire sales and they'll have opportunities to grab assets at fire-sale values,'' said DaRayl Davis, a money manager and the author of ''Economic Secrets of the New Retirement Environment'' (Xlibris, 2009).
Financial advisers also contend that it makes little sense to pay off the mortgage on an asset whose value is still depreciating. Indeed, home prices in the country's top 20 markets have fallen more than 30 percent, on average, from their peak in June 2006, with those in Las Vegas, for instance, tumbling 60 percent, according to Alex Barron, the founder and president of the Housing Research Center.
Prices in New York City are off 22 percent from their peak, he said, adding that he expected home prices to fall another 5 percent before bottoming out in the next one to two years.
Mr. Davis is even more bearish, predicting that prices could slide another 30 percent. ''That bubble has burst,'' he said, ''and it's not done deflating yet.''
Mr. Nicholas recommends that any homeowner with a mortgage rate above 7 percent try to refinance to a lower rate if the refinancing costs are not too high.
Then there are the tax implications of losing the mortgage deduction. These are only relevant, Ms. Shultz noted, to owners whose principal is less than two-thirds paid off. Once the two-thirds threshold has been reached, the interest deduction, if any, is small and doesn't justify keeping the mortgage.
Of course, the good feeling of owning a home debt-free should not be minimized. ''Trading off a known 4 percent interest rate for an unknown market return may leave some retirees jittery,'' said Drew Denning, the vice president for retiree services of the Principal Financial Group.
For those who do opt to pay off a mortgage early -- perhaps they want to eliminate debts to pay for their children's college -- the experts suggest that they have at least 12 months of living expenses in cash available outside their retirement accounts after the home is paid off. That is double the amount normally recommended in good times.
Mr. Denning recommends as much as two years' worth of living costs. ''The ability to find another job that pays a comparable amount of money is very challenging in today's environment,'' he said. ''And going to your bank to take out a loan when you're unemployed would not be one of the more friendly visits you'll have.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate. (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%)

COMPANY: MANHATTAN MORTGAGE CO (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (70%); SIC6163 LOAN BROKERS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



556 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE HAGGLER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Go Ahead, Invade Your Seatmate's Space

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL

 BODY:
LET'S start with an update from our last episode, in which the Haggler intervened on behalf of Hasham Mahmood, a man whose stolen cellphone was used to rack up a $25,571 bill in three days.
Citing extenuating circumstances, T-Mobile dropped the bill, but the collection agency assigned to extract the money from Mr. Mahmood apparently didn't get that memo.
''Diversified Consultants Inc., is now demanding $1,000 in collection fees,'' Mr. Mahmood wrote last week. 
Explaining to D.C.I. that the matter had been dropped by T-Mobile apparently didn't help. Mr. Mahmood, in a series of calls, was instructed to dispute the charge on the D.C.I. Web site. But the link he was e-mailed was for disputing cellphone claims, not the collection fee assessed by D.C.I.
''Now I can't get through or hear back from the supervisor,'' Mr. Mahmood wrote.
The Haggler called D.C.I., which is based in Jacksonville, Fla., and spoke with a gentlemen named Adam Felty. He said he could not discuss the case without the consent of Mr. Mahmood, which Mr. Mahmood provided promptly. Mr. Felty said he would investigate. When silence ensued, the Haggler left a message on Mr. Felty's answering machine. Then another message. When there was further silence, the Haggler rummaged through the collections agency playbook and left this message:
''Mr. Felty, I am calling on behalf of Hasham Mahmood. This is the third message. Please call at your earliest possible convenience. We would like to resolve this matter without it going on your permanent record. Perhaps we could discuss the terms of a nonpayment plan. You could, for instance, ask Mr. Mahmood to not pay $300. Then he could not pay you another $300 the next month. And so on until all of the money he doesn't owe is no longer demanded by Diversified Consultants Inc.''
This worked. The next day, D.C.I.'s chief operating officer, Gordon Beck, called and explained that the company had dropped its $1,000 claim against Mr. Mahmood.
What happened? While T-Mobile had indeed forgiven the cellphone charges, Mr. Beck explained, the $1,000 collection fee -- which would have been added to the $25,571 and would have gone to T-Mobile, not D.C.I., according to Mr. Beck -- remained.
''This was just a simple mistake,'' Mr. Beck said, though not a mistake made by D.C.I. He did not elaborate on whose mistake this was. ''We have an impeccable reputation for treating customers with honest and integrity.''
Mr. Mahmood's balance is now, at last, zero. Let's get to a letter:
Q.On both legs of a United Airlines round-trip flight from Chicago to Paris, I sat in a seat that had some sort of box-shaped metal structure that took up half of my foot room. I could not put my tote bag under the seat, but the main problem was that it was hard to get comfortable with a fraction of the usual room for my legs in an economy row that's tight already. What annoys me is that United offers extra legroom for an additional fee. So, if I have less than standard legroom it seems I'm entitled to some kind of discount, don't you think? I wrote United on their complaint Web site requesting a partial refund, but that got me nowhere.
Mary Ann Lamanna
Omaha
A. It turns out that the box that Ms. Lamanna is referring to contains the in-flight entertainment equipment. And on the Boeing 767, as configured by United, these boxes turn up in every row, under two of the seven seats.
How big is this box? Hey, hey, slow down there, Columbo! Whoa. Just hang on a minute with the probing questions, O.K.? A rep from United, Charles Hobart, could ascertain just one of the boxes' three dimensions -- their width, which is five inches. Height and length? Mr. Hobart said he'd ''try to get them.''
This left the Haggler to wonder: What happened to the United employee who measured the box? Did he or she figure out the width and then collapse from exhaustion? Did the company's only ruler go missing right after that five-inch measurement was taken?
Whatever the dimensions of the box, Mr. Hobart said it did not impede much foot room.
''With the box, the available width is approximately 26.84 inches for the two customers to use,'' he wrote in an e-mail. ''This offers customers enough space to store two standard carry-on bags under the seat.''
What he is saying, just to be clear, is that there is plenty of foot room for Ms. Lamanna and others in the same seat if you add the space under the seat of the passenger next to them. Because, yeah, a jet is basically a kibbutz with wings. It's sunny all the time and you just sort of share.
Mr. Hobart pointed the Haggler to a site called seatguru.com, which offers schematic drawings of jets and rates the quality of the seats. What you see, in a page devoted to United's 767, is that the seats with the electronic boxes are not marked as seats with ''some drawbacks.'' Fair enough. But the page also says the following: ''All B and H seats have limited underseat leg and storage room due to the presence of an entertainment equipment box.''
The Haggler hates to quibble with an expert, but limited in this context sounds a whole lot like a drawback. Regardless, United is unmoved. The passenger who winds up with the electronic box pays the same as everyone in a box-free seat.
It's pretty simple: The airlines will charge extra when you want to addeth; just don't expect a discount when they taketh away.
E-mail: haggler@nytimes.com Keep it brief and family-friendly, and go easy on the caps-lock key. Letters may be edited for clarity and length.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH HITZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (89%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (67%); AIRLINES (60%)

COMPANY: T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (58%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (55%) FLORIDA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



557 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; WORKSTATION; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Matching Volunteers To the Right Missions

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI

 BODY:
THE recession dealt a double blow to many nonprofits. Just as it ratcheted up demand for their services, it also forced them to cut their budgets. So in times like these, volunteers are more valuable than ever.
But volunteer work can be plagued by inefficiency. Suppose a nonprofit manages to recruit a large group of people to help with a project. It's not a given that they will have the right skills for the effort, or that the nonprofit will know how to mobilize them, said Michelle Nunn, chief executive of the Points of Light Institute, which helps organize volunteer efforts.
Sometimes, the nonprofits with the most need are those that don't have the money to hire people to supervise volunteers, said Gary Bagley, executive director of New York Cares, which mobilizes volunteer projects citywide. 
To avoid squandering a volunteer's good will, more organizations, including Points of Light and New York Cares, are working to match supply and demand with more precision. For example, they are enlisting volunteers to serve as managers of other volunteers. And, in the process, these people are broadening their experience and adding ballast to their resumes.
Technological advances are aiding this push to properly match volunteers. A Web site called Sparked, which started a year ago, allows people to use their computers to help others in a variety of ways. ''It's desktop volunteering,'' said Ben Rigby, the company's chief executive. People can spend as little as a few hours or even just a few minutes helping out.
The ''microvolunteers,'' as they are called, take a survey on the site that assesses their skills (examples: design, research, social media) and interests (animals, environment, the arts and so on). Then they can respond to various requests for help, called ''challenges,'' from nonprofits that the site has vetted. For example, a group that helps orphanages recently sought assistance in updating the phrasing of its thank-you letters to donors.
Some of the biggest demand is for Web, logo and brochure design, Mr. Rigby said. Other requests are for help with translation, transcription, accounting, research and data entry. Volunteers can also simply brainstorm -- to come up with ideas for an ad campaign, say, or a social media strategy.
Multiple volunteers can participate in each challenge -- and, as is the case in other settings, not all the help may be used. People can collect ''awards,'' which are noted on their Sparked profiles, if a nonprofit considers their contributions to be outstanding.
Volunteering on Sparked eliminates geographic constraints. And so Julienne Mascellino DesJardins, who lives in Buffalo, helped a puppet theater in Fremantle, Australia, find ways to improve its presence on Facebook, and helped a historical society in Charlevoix County, Mich., transcribe old documents for an exhibit.
Ms. Mascellino DesJardins is finishing her master's degree in public health administration and works for a medical billing company. She appreciates Sparked because she doesn't have time right now to dedicate to a bigger commitment.
At the same time, she acknowledges feeling a little ''disconnected'' from some of the projects she works on -- it's unlikely that she'll ever visit that puppet theater in Australia.
For both volunteers and nonprofits, there will always be a call for in-person help. To deploy that assistance efficiently, New York Cares appoints volunteer team leaders to oversee its projects. Not only does that tend to help operations run more smoothly, but ''on the day of the project, that team leader gets a wonderful management experience,'' Mr. Bagley said.
THE desire to build a resume can be at least a partial motive for volunteering. ''If you don't have formal management experience,'' Mr. Bagley said, ''being able to say that once a month you organize a group of people who are serving meals at a soup kitchen'' is a big plus. He also said that volunteering in an area outside your profession is a good way to explore a career switch.
Recognizing that volunteer work can add value to a career, LinkedIn recently added a ''Volunteer Experiences and Causes'' field to its user profiles.
Mr. Bagley likes to view volunteers as ''employees who are being paid with something other than money.'' For most, he said, the payment is mainly ''a sense of reward and a sense of having made a difference.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHANNA GOODMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOLUNTEERS (93%); BUDGETS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (87%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); WEB SITES (66%); HISTORY (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (87%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); WESTERN AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (65%) UNITED STATES (87%); AUSTRALIA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



558 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; GREENTECH; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: A Plan for Efficiency in the Rest of the Car

BYLINE: By PAUL STENQUIST

 BODY:
IN the Mazda canon, Skyactiv is a term that describes the company's systematic approach to improving fuel efficiency. Under the Skyactiv umbrella are gasoline and diesel engines, 6-speed manual and automatic transmissions, lightweight body structures and a host of chassis improvements. 
Among Mazda's 2012 models, the 2-liter gasoline engine available in the Mazda 3 is the star of the Skyactiv show. The other components that make up the full Skyactiv package will appear first in the 2013 CX-5 crossover, which goes on sale early next year.
How well a transmission performs is an important factor in drivability, so for its new automatic Mazda specified a combination of a multiplate clutch and a torque converter. This transmission is programmed to shift quickly into higher gears, yet avoid the annoying trait of automatics that hunt for the right ratio. Mazda says that the transmission delivers quicker downshift times than Volkswagen's DSG dual-clutch transmission.
A new manual transmission has been engineered for light and short shift throws. Reduced friction and lower-viscosity oil in this gearbox results in a 1 percent fuel economy gain over the maker's previous manual transmission.
Skyactiv bodies use a larger proportion of high-tensile steel and different bonding methods than previous Mazda bodies. The company says they are 8 percent lighter than its comparable current designs, yet have 30 percent greater rigidity.
The Skyactiv suspension employs a redesigned strut-type front layout and a multilink design at the rear. Fuel-saving electric power steering is also part of the package.
One element of the Skyactiv program not currently planned for the United States is a new 2.2-liter diesel engine. Mazda says the engine, with a very low (for a diesel) 14:1 compression ratio and a two-stage turbocharger, meets worldwide standards for emissions of nitrogen oxides -- without aftertreatment systems like the urea injection used by European automakers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); GASOLINE (90%); DIESEL FUEL (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); EMISSIONS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (62%); NITROGEN OXIDES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



559 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1823 words

HEADLINE: Generation Sell

BYLINE: By WILLIAM DERESIEWICZ. 
An essayist and critic, and the author of ''A Jane Austen Education: How Six Novels Taught Me About Love, Friendship, and the Things That Really Matter.''

 BODY:
EVER since I moved three years ago to Portland, Ore., that hotbed of all things hipster, I've been trying to get a handle on today's youth culture. The style is easy enough to describe -- the skinny pants, the retro hats, the wall-to-wall tattoos. But style is superficial. The question is, what's underneath? What idea of life? What stance with respect to the world?
Previous youth cultures -- beatniks, hippies, punks, slackers -- could be characterized by two related things: the emotion or affect they valorized and the social form they envisioned. For the hippies, the emotion was love: love-ins, free love, the Summer of Love, all you need is love. The social form was utopia, understood in collective terms: the commune, the music festival, the liberation movement.
The beatniks aimed at ecstasy, embodied as a social form in individual transcendence. Theirs was a culture of jazz, with its spontaneity; of marijuana, arresting time and flooding the soul with pleasure (this was before the substance became the background drug of every youth culture); of flight, on the road, to the West; of the quest for the perfect moment. 
The punks were all about rage, their social program nihilistic anarchy. ''Get pissed,'' Johnny Rotten sang. ''Destroy.'' Hip-hop, punk's younger brother, was all about rage and nihilism, too, at least until it turned to a vision of individual aggrandizement.
As for the slackers of the late '80s and early '90s (Generation X, grunge music, the fiction of David Foster Wallace), their affect ran to apathy and angst, a sense of aimlessness and pointlessness. Whatever. That they had no social vision was precisely what their social vision was: a defensive withdrawal from all commitment as inherently phony.
So what's the affect of today's youth culture? Not just the hipsters, but the Millennial Generation as a whole, people born between the late '70s and the mid-'90s, more or less -- of whom the hipsters are a lot more representative than most of them care to admit. The thing that strikes me most about them is how nice they are: polite, pleasant, moderate, earnest, friendly. Rock 'n' rollers once were snarling rebels or chest-beating egomaniacs. Now the presentation is low-key, self-deprecating, post-ironic, eco-friendly. When Vampire Weekend appeared on ''The Colbert Report'' last year to plug their album ''Contra,'' the host asked them, in view of the title, what they were against. ''Closed-mindedness,'' they said.
According to one of my students at Yale, where I taught English in the last decade, a colleague of mine would tell his students that they belonged to a ''post-emotional'' generation. No anger, no edge, no ego.
What is this about? A rejection of culture-war strife? A principled desire to live more lightly on the planet? A matter of how they were raised -- everybody's special and everybody's point of view is valid and everybody's feelings should be taken care of?
Perhaps a bit of each, but mainly, I think, something else. The millennial affect is the affect of the salesman. Consider the other side of the equation, the Millennials' characteristic social form. Here's what I see around me, in the city and the culture: food carts, 20-somethings selling wallets made from recycled plastic bags, boutique pickle companies, techie start-ups, Kickstarter, urban-farming supply stores and bottled water that wants to save the planet.
Today's ideal social form is not the commune or the movement or even the individual creator as such; it's the small business. Every artistic or moral aspiration -- music, food, good works, what have you -- is expressed in those terms.
Call it Generation Sell.
Bands are still bands, but now they're little businesses, as well: self-produced, self-published, self-managed. When I hear from young people who want to get off the careerist treadmill and do something meaningful, they talk, most often, about opening a restaurant. Nonprofits are still hip, but students don't dream about joining one, they dream about starting one. In any case, what's really hip is social entrepreneurship -- companies that try to make money responsibly, then give it all away.
It's striking. Forty years ago, even 20 years ago, a young person's first thought, or even second or third thought, was certainly not to start a business. That was selling out -- an idea that has rather tellingly disappeared from our vocabulary. Where did it come from, this change? Less Reaganism, as a former student suggested to me, than Clintonism -- the heroic age of dot-com entrepreneurship that emerged during the Millennials' childhood and youth. Add a distrust of large organizations, including government, as well as the sense, a legacy of the last decade, that it's every man for himself.
Because this isn't only them. The small business is the idealized social form of our time. Our culture hero is not the artist or reformer, not the saint or scientist, but the entrepreneur. (Think of Steve Jobs, our new deity.) Autonomy, adventure, imagination: entrepreneurship comprehends all this and more for us. The characteristic art form of our age may be the business plan.
AND that, I think, is the real meaning of the Millennial affect -- which is, like the entrepreneurial ideal, essentially everyone's now. Today's polite, pleasant personality is, above all, a commercial personality. It is the salesman's smile and hearty handshake, because the customer is always right and you should always keep the customer happy. If you want to get ahead, said Benjamin Franklin, the original business guru, make yourself pleasing to others.
I was contacted recently by a young man who plans to start a Web site to promote the need for reading and reflection to people of his generation. Not just promote it, though, of course, but market it. When he asked me for advice, I suggested he begin by pointing out the superficiality of so much social media. Well, he said, I agree with that idea, that's a big premise of what I'm trying to do, but I wouldn't want to come across as negative, because that turns people off. If they think you're criticizing them, they won't want to buy what you're selling.
That kind of thinking is precisely what I'm talking about, what lies behind the bland, inoffensive, smile-and-a-shoeshine personality -- the stay-positive, other-directed, I'll-be-whoever-you-want-me-to-be personality -- that everybody has today. Yes, we're vicious, anonymously, on the comment threads of public Web sites, but when we speak in our own names, on Facebook and so forth, we're strenuously cheerful, conciliatory, well-groomed. (In fact, one of the reasons we're so vicious, I'm convinced, is to relieve the psychic pressure of all that affability.) They say that people in Hollywood are always nice to everyone they meet, in that famously fake Hollywood way, because they're never certain whom they might be dealing with -- it could be somebody who's more important than they realize, or at least, somebody who might become important down the road.
Well, we're all in showbiz now, walking on eggshells, relentlessly tending our customer base. We're all selling something today, because even if we aren't literally selling something (though thanks to the Internet as well as the entrepreneurial ideal, more and more of us are), we're always selling ourselves. We use social media to create a product -- to create a brand -- and the product is us. We treat ourselves like little businesses, something to be managed and promoted.
The self today is an entrepreneurial self, a self that's packaged to be sold.
In ''Bobos in Paradise,'' David Brooks articulated the phenomenon of the bourgeois bohemians, a class that merges respectable incomes with countercultural attitudes. Where, I wondered recently, do the real bohemians -- the hipsters, in other words -- fit into the scheme? Some are just bobos in training; others are destined to remain bohemians for life. But whatever their individual trajectories, hipsters possess a relationship to mainstream society that is radically different from that of their youth-culture forebears, and they have the bobos to thank. Indeed, they have them to thank for their very existence.
The rise of the bobos in the 1990s (when creativity became lucrative and money became cool) put a new kind of pressure on the true bohemians. Now they no longer stood in opposition to mainstream culture, as the beatniks did to the company men or the slackers did to the business boys. Now they looked exactly like it. Mainstream culture had come to them, and it drew them to itself. Et voila, the hipster. Instead of having to get a haircut and a new wardrobe, not to mention a new set of friends, if you wanted to go over to the man, you just kept doing what you were doing, at gradually higher price points. Hence the hipster as Bobo-in-training, bohemia merging imperceptibly with the bourgeoisie.
Hipsters and bobos are symbiotic. I should know; I'm a bobo in a hipster-bobo neighborhood -- which is pretty much what I was looking for when I moved to Portland in the first place. We're all into organic food and progressive politics; we just have different relationships to the commodities through which those attitudes are expressed. Hipsters create bobo culture. They make or sell or serve, or simply pioneer, what bobos buy. Try to picture Allen Ginsberg having a chat with Don Draper, across the counter at the local coffeehouse, about the latest Lady Gaga video, and you'll realize how far we've come.
All this is why, unlike those of previous youth cultures, the hipster ethos contains no element of rebellion, rejection or dissent -- remarkably so, given that countercultural opposition would seem to be essential to the very idea of youth culture. That may in turn be why the hipster has proved to be so durable. The heyday of the hippies lasted for all of about two years. The punks and slackers held the stage for little more than half a decade each. That's the nature of rebellion: it needs to keep on happening. The punks rejected the mainstream, but they also rejected the previous rejection, hippiedom itself -- which, by the late '70s, was something that old people (i.e. 28-year-olds) were into. But hipsters, who've been around for 15 years or so, appear to have become a durable part of our cultural configuration.
Or maybe not. These movements always have an economic substrate. The beatniks and hippies -- love, ecstasy, transcendence, utopia -- were products of the postwar boom. The punks and slackers and devotees of hip-hop -- rage, angst, nihilism, withdrawal -- arose within the long stagnation that lasted from the early '70s to the early '90s. The hipsters were born in the dot-com boom and flourished in the real estate bubble.
Affability is a commercial virtue, but it is also the affect of people who feel themselves to be living in a fundamentally agreeable society. Already, the makings of a new youth culture may be locking into place.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH COCHRAN AND MIKE PERRY)(SR1
 SR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (73%); JAZZ & BLUES (73%); HIP HOP CULTURE (72%); GENERATION X (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (68%); RAP MUSIC (68%); MUSIC (68%); FESTIVALS (68%); CANNABIS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (73%) OREGON, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



560 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2012 CHEVROLET SONIC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: At Last, a Small Chevy That Makes Some Waves

BYLINE: By SAM SMITH

 BODY:
AS new-car names go, Chevrolet Sonic has a decent ring. It implies speed, amped-up sound, maybe a dash of pizazz. As with most auto names, interpretation is up to you.
But specifics aren't important here; chiefly, the name of the new, smallest Chevy seems to promise something. This is important, because the car that came before it, the indifferently named Chevrolet Aveo, promised nothing. It delivered only slightly more.
The Aveo, assembled by G.M.'s South Korean division and sold in 2002-11, was one of General Motors' unfortunate mistakes. Viewed on its own, it was an acceptable small car, without stunning talent or glaring fault. Viewed in the context of its competition -- distinctive, successful cars like the first-generation Honda Fit and Toyota Yaris -- the Aveo was simply anodyne, the kind of flavorless meal you bought if you couldn't afford anything better.
The Aveo neatly captured the attitude of the old General Motors before its government rescue and reorganization: Here, have a car. Just don't get too excited about it. 
For 2012, the Sonic replaces the Aveo, albeit at a base price ($14,495) some $1,800 higher. The Sonic is sold in other markets as an Aveo, but it is far from anodyne.
Like its predecessor, the Sonic is offered in two forms: a four-door hatchback or four-door sedan, both assembled in Lake Orion, Mich. Oddly, the base Sonic hatch costs $700 to $900 more, depending on trim level, than the larger sedan.
The two Sonics are styled similarly and seemingly with the intent of making you forget their bland predecessors. The hatchback looks like a small, angry dog, maybe a Yorkie that mainlined a can of Red Bull.
The sedan is similar but slightly chunkier and less attractive, as if it had developed a glandular problem or spent a year renting an apartment over a cupcake shop. Both are interesting without being cute or obnoxious -- a tall order for a diminutive car. The achievement is even more notable for a brand like Chevrolet, which has spent the last 40 years acting as if small cars were the sole province of Hello Kitty.
Still, the real progress is under the skin. The Sonic's engine choices are borrowed from the Chevrolet Cruze, a competent small sedan that is 400 pounds heavier.
Gone is the Aveo's 1.6-liter 108-horsepower 4-cylinder, a coarse blenderlike implement that seemed lifted from the Ronco catalog. (New, folks! The Engine-O-Matic!) In its place are two impressive and compact 4-cylinder power plants: a 1.8-liter that makes 138 horsepower and 125 pound-feet of torque, and a turbocharged 1.4-liter rated at 138 horsepower and 148 pound-feet.
The turbo 1.4 comes, until spring, only with a 6-speed manual gearbox. The 1.8 is mated to a smooth-shifting 6-speed automatic or a 5-speed manual.
As with most small cars, standalone options are limited; juicy features are available only by stepping up from the base trim. Thankfully, you get a decent amount from the start: standard equipment includes antilock brakes, electronic stability control, automatic headlights, keyless locking, air-conditioning, power locks, alloy wheels, a four-speaker audio system with an auxiliary jack and 10 air bags. (The similar-size Fit has eight, the Ford Fiesta seven.)
Before you get too excited, remember that such features are no longer unusual even in economy cars. Ten years ago, you were lucky if your sub-$15,000 car came with seats and a steering wheel. Now, almost everything on the market is better equipped than a Mercedes from the Reagan years. Call it trickle-down tech.
If your budget can swing it, you can buy packages that include power windows, a power sunroof, a six-speaker CD stereo and heated leatherette front seats. G.M. even offers Scion-like accessories, including a splashy half-tone graphics package that makes the Sonic look like a drunken engineer's doodle or a printing mistake at Staples. In the grand tradition of unnecessary add-ons, most of these offerings only tart up a clean design.
So here is a good-looking economy car that seems a decent value. On the whole, this is evolution, not news. But the impressive thing about the Sonic is that it's actually fun to drive. Though hardly perfect, it's so much better than the Aveo as to banish that car from memory.
First, there's the chassis. You get a torsion-beam axle and cost-containing drum brakes in back, both normal for the class. But everything works together nicely: the steering is surprisingly responsive and accurate, and the Sonic seems to relish being chucked into a freeway ramp as much as a Fit or a Fiesta. Contrast that with the Aveo, which meandered through corners with the composure of a wet sock.
Next, the drivetrain. I tested both a Sonic hatchback with the 1.8-liter and the 6-speed automatic, and the sedan with the turbo 1.4 and 6-speed manual.
Both wore 17-inch alloy wheels, but only the hatchback had pedestrians poking their heads in at stoplights to ask about the car and its engine.
The 1.4 is charming and quick to rev; it pulls strongly, with little turbo lag, but tends to drone above 5,000 r.p.m.
The 1.8, by contrast, is nice but lacking in grunt and personality. Blame the reduced torque (23 pound-feet less) and its less rev-happy nature.
The 6-speed manual offers an easy, if somewhat mushy, clutch and a chunky throw; the 6-speed automatic can be too eager to upshift, but it goes about its tasks with nary a whisper or a jolt.
Mileage is respectable from each: 29 miles per gallon in town and 40 on the highway for the turbo 1.4 and 25/35 from the 1.8 with the automatic. The brakes work well enough, though the pedal feel is a bit vague.
As for the interior, G.M. says it recalls motorcycle design, and it does, in a way. The instrument cluster is little more than a large tachometer and an enormous digital speedometer hung off the dash. It could live on a modern Yamaha. (Why would you want a car that looks like a motorcycle? No one wants a motorcycle that looks like a car.)
Regardless, this is nice equipment, the kind of furniture you focus on at stoplights. Even the neat eyeball vents at each end of the dash -- a touch common to older European cars -- feel substantial and look upscale, with a protruding knurled control knob. Everything feels more expensive than it is.
Still, I have one odd niggle. The more expensive hatchback is noiser inside and delivers a slightly more uncomfortable ride than the larger, less attractive sedan. The stark differences between the two drivetrains and body styles appeared deliberate, as if Chevrolet was convinced that totally different people would buy the two models. I'm not sure of that, but at least they're thinking.
Let's be clear: this is a very important car for G.M., whose future depends on offering Americans a desirable, compromise-free small car -- one that measures up to the machines from Europe and Japan, not to mention the crosstown rivals in Detroit. For ordinary customers who weren't buying in bulk for fleets, the Aveo's main draw was its low price. In a nice contrast, the Sonic is something you might actually want, and not simply settle for.
INSIDE TRACK: Inexpensive, but worth every penny.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BARRIER BREAKER: The Sonic comes as a hatchback, above, or sedan, below. Handling is impressive for a subcompact, and the interior looks upscale. (AU1)
 HOME TEAM: The Sonic, built in Michigan, replaces the Korean-made Aveo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY G.M. COMPANY)(AU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SEDANS (89%); POWER PLANTS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



561 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Sun and Sand on Your Agenda? It's Time to Book

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
LOOKING for a bargain beach vacation? Better act fast.
Interest in the Caribbean is on the upswing, according to travel agencies like AAA Travel, which is reporting a double-digit increase in winter bookings over last year. Discounts for hotels and resorts, while widely advertised, aren't quite as robust as they were this time a year ago. And limited flights are making it difficult to find a seat, let alone a bargain, especially on nonstop routes. But travelers planning visits outside of the popular holiday weeks can still score a deal on both flights and accommodations. Hotels, particularly those in the luxury range, continue to offer significant savings in the form of free nights and add-ons like daily breakfast or resort credits.
Here are some of the best offers this season. 
Bahamas
Though technically in the Atlantic, this island chain's turquoise waters and pink sand beaches rival those of its Caribbean counterparts. And this year it's cheaper and easier to get to. The budget carrier Vision Airlines just started nonstop service to Grand Bahama Island from Richmond, Va.; Louisville, Ky.; Raleigh-Durham, N.C.; Baltimore and Fort Lauderdale, Fla., starting at an average of $99 each way plus taxes and fees. A limited number of seats are being sold for just $2 round trip plus tax with the purchase of a three-night stay at participating resorts including Viva Wyndham Fortuna Beach and Grand Lucayan.
The Bimini Bay Resort and Marina, which has rates from $199 a night for a studio garden suite, has teamed up with IBC Travel to start daily nonstop 30-minute flights from Fort Lauderdale and Miami from $289 round trip. And more than 50 hotels across the Bahamas, like the ones on NassauParadise Island, Grand Bahama and the Out Islands, are offering $400 off to travelers who book a six-night stay by Nov. 21 for travel through March 4, with the exceptions of Dec. 29 to 31 and Presidents' Day weekend. For stays of four or five nights, guests receive $250 off.
Jamaica
With a wide swath of lodging options, from mega-resorts to boutique hotels in the Blue Mountains, it's not hard to find an affordable Jamaica vacation.
The all-inclusive Holiday Inn SunSpree Resort Montego Bay is offering its biggest sale of the year with 65 percent off through Dec. 22. Next year, travelers can get 50 percent off two-night stays from Jan. 2 through April 8, not including Jan. 26 to 29 or Presidents' Day weekend. Sandals Resorts and Beaches Resorts have also slashed rates by up to 65 percent. Guests who book a six-night stay or a combination hotel and air package by Nov. 17 for travel next year receive a $250 discount.
In the mountains, Strawberry Hill Hotel and Spa, which reopened last month after a six-week refurbishment, is offering four nights for the price of three through Dec. 19. And Half Moon, a RockResort, in Rose Hall on the Northern coast is offering a seventh night free, $200 in resort credit and round-trip airport transfers with its Great Winter Thaw deal for stays between Jan. 5 and April 1, with fewer blackout dates than last year.
Mexico
Mexico continues to suffer from perceptions that it's unsafe to visit, but security experts say tourists who steer clear of United States border areas and stay within resort areas like Cancun and the Riviera Maya can still have a safe vacation. And there is no shortage of bargains.
To spur bookings, Barcelo Hotels & Resorts, which has seven beach resorts in Cancun and the Riviera Maya, is offering higher discounts the earlier you book -- from 15 percent off between 31 and 59 days ahead to 35 percent off for reservations more than 120 days in advance.
Palace Resorts, with 11 all-inclusive resorts in Mexico, is offering up to $1,500 in resort credit with bookings of five nights or more. And Pleasant Holidays, one of the biggest sellers of Mexico packages, is offering $100 off three-night stays at AM Resorts' all-inclusive brands including Dreams Cancun Resort & Spa and Secrets Maroma Beach Riviera Cancun if booked by Nov. 20. Some of the best deals can be found at luxury hotels trying to make up for lost conference business with vacationers.
The Ritz-Carlton Cancun, for example, is offering rooms from $199 including breakfast for two for bookings made seven days in advance through Dec. 21. On top of that, guests receive a $50 credit per room to be used at the spa.
St. Kitts and Nevis
St. Kitts is running the ''Fall in Love with St. Kitts & Nevis'' nationwide promotion of seven nights for the price of five or four nights for the price of three through Dec. 12 at many hotels across both islands. Guests receive free continental breakfast daily or a food and beverage credit. In addition, several St. Kitts hotels are offering winter deals that are as good as, if not better than, last year's. Ottley's Plantation Inn, for example, has rolled back its rates to ''pricing unseen since before 1999'' with rates from $194 between Nov. 1 and Dec. 22 of this year.
On Nevis, the Four Seasons Resort is putting the finishing touches on two new luxury suites, completing its $110 million renovation and offering a fourth night free or eight nights for the price of six through Dec. 20.
U.S. Virgin Islands
Promotions are inching closer toward peak winter season on the United States Virgin Islands this year. For example, the Dive USVI promotion, which ended in October last year, is good for travel through December this season. In addition to the $300 in dive certificates offered last year, the deal now includes $150 in combined dining and retail credits. Boutique hotels across the islands are also offering visitors $100 in savings through dining and activity coupons. Details can be found at visitusvi.com.
And St. Croix now has its first all-inclusive option -- the Divi Carina Bay Beach Resort -- which switched to all-inclusive pricing earlier this year because it noticed visitors were more interested in one low price following the economic slowdown. Rates begin at $183 a person a night based on double occupancy for travel between Dec. 23 and Jan. 15, if booked by Dec. 1., and kids up to 17 stay and eat free.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 20, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Practical Traveler column last Sunday, about deals being offered for Caribbean vacations this season, misstated the length of time a hotel in Jamaica spent on a recent refurbishment. The Strawberry Hill Hotel and Spa reopened last month after a refurbishment that took six weeks, not six months.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BEN GOSS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); BEACHES (89%); TOUR PACKAGES (78%); AIRLINES (77%); MOUNTAINS (75%); ISLANDS & REEFS (68%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (58%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (58%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (58%); SIC4729 ARRANGEMENT OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (55%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (55%); DURHAM, NC, USA (55%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) BAHAMAS (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAMAICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2011



562 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; READER COMMENTS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: The Costs of Child Care

 BODY:
In the Big City column on Nov. 6, Ginia Bellafante criticized a new policy that lets ZIP codes guide the allocation of subsidized services like community day care centers. Below is a sampling of reader responses. 
Your point that ZIP codes are a crude method for assessing need, as there are poor families in ZIP codes with middle and upper income households, is obviously a valid one. Also, your point that we should be careful in closing institutions that are working and have taken years to get to that point is also a good one. However, we are living is a very resource-constrained world, and there are not enough public funds to pay for all of the early childhood care that is required. To ask centers in poor neighborhoods to raise funds to cover some portion of their budget -- however limited as a percentage -- does not seem like it is asking too much.
Alan
New York, NY
--
I am writing on behalf of Duffield Children's Center, a publicly funded early childhood education center located in Fort Greene, Brooklyn. It was one of the original 16 city-owned day care centers slated for closure.
Within the 11201 ZIP code, Duffield is sandwiched between three public housing developments and three new expensive, sky-high condominiums. With the recent addition of these condominiums, real estate values are rising, as is a false sense of wealth in the area. Meanwhile, 20 percent of the families in the ZIP code live in poverty.
If Duffield closes, the families of the 120 children we serve would be forced to choose between giving up work and using informal, unregulated child care. This would increase unemployment, put children in compromised situations and impair their readiness to succeed in school. Brooklyn could also lose $500,000 in direct federal funding for Duffield's Head Start program, and more than $30,000 in private funding every year for Duffield's literacy initiative.
We hope that the disturbing ZIP code policy will be reassessed so that Duffield and other centers like ours can continue to meet the developmentally appropriate educational child care needs of poor families living within gentrified, ''nontargeted'' ZIP codes.
Barry Newmark
Interim Executive Director
Brooklyn Community Services
--
I appreciate the difficulties you talk about, but what about the middle class? We could not afford a full-time nanny (paid a living wage, on the books), and there were two day care options in our neighborhood, one of which had a two-year waiting list, the other being an Orthodox Jewish day care preschool (which welcomed my child, but it is not our faith). It also cost us close to $18,000 per year. After a year my child did not ''click'' with a teacher, and we were summarily thrown out -- with no other option.
As a family where both of us need to work full time, I spent so many sleepless nights worrying -- and so many days I had to take off thinking I might be fired for taking too much time. The situation is crazy, and not just for lower-income families.
Anonymous
Brooklyn NY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD CARE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (89%); FAMILY (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); LIVING WAGE (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (77%); CLOSINGS (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); FUNDRAISING (74%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (71%); HOME PRICES (70%); EXECUTIVES (62%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011



563 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Russia, in From the Cold

 BODY:
After 18 years of stop-and-go negotiations, it is good news that Russia, the world's 11th largest economy, finally sealed a deal on Thursday to enter the World Trade Organization and subject its unruly form of capitalism to the strictures of international law. 
Russia overcame the last obstacle to entry last week when Georgia, which like any W.T.O. member has a veto over new membership decisions, accepted a deal brokered by Switzerland for monitoring trade with Russia across disputed portions of their border. The deal commits Russia to submit to W.T.O. rules. It must lower tariffs across a range of agricultural and manufactured goods. It can no longer subsidize its exports or import substitutes, and it can no longer use phony health and safety arguments to block food imports or wantonly impose import restrictions like quotas.
It accepted the W.T.O.'s rules to protect intellectual property. And it promised that its natural gas companies would operate as firms pursuing the profit motive -- not as political tools to subdue neighbor countries by denying them an energy supply in the winter.
Since Russia mostly exports oil and gas, which are not subject to tariffs and do not fall under the purview of the W.T.O., the Russian government has been ambivalent about the merits of joining a group that would limit its policy choices. Joining the group would put some of Russia's most inefficient enterprises at risk, like farming and pharmaceutical companies, which will be subjected to stiff international competition.
But membership is an important step for Russia as it tries to evolve out of its role as supplier of raw materials and develop more manufacturing and services exports. Membership will confer the imprimatur of legality Russia needs to draw the foreign investment that has shied away from its unruly markets, fearing Moscow's autocratic and capricious policies. And allowing in more high-quality imports is likely to spur Russian firms to improve and innovate. A World Bank study estimated that W.T.O. membership would increase Russian gross domestic product by 11 percent over a decade.
The United States will benefit too. American exports to Russia are only about $6 billion a year, and imports are $8 billion. But American farmers and firms, from telecommunications to computing, see huge opportunities in an open and transparent Russian market. Moreover, a prosperous Russia, playing by the same rules, would benefit the world economy.
The agreement reached Thursday is widely expected to be approved at a meeting of the W.T.O.'s entire membership in Geneva next month. But for the United States to enjoy normal trade relations with Russia after it joins the trade organization, Congress must exempt Russia from the 1974 Jackson-Vanik amendment, which limits trade with countries that restrict emigration. President Obama has said that he would work with Congress to end the application of that law to Russia.
Some lawmakers remain skeptical. On Thursday, some members of Congress sent a letter to Ron Kirk, the United States trade representative, expressing ''significant concerns'' about whether Russia would respect American intellectual property rights. In supporting the Russian deal, Mr. Obama will have to convince lawmakers that American interests -- including its intellectual property rights -- will be better protected with Russia inside the W.T.O. than if it remains outside.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); VETO (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (70%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (69%); APPROVALS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (63%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (53%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (53%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



564 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: The Benefits of Fracking

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Questions About the Safety of Fracking'' (letters, Nov. 9): 
Representative Maurice D. Hinchey, Democrat of New York, does not mention the economic benefits of natural gas development in regions long plagued by widespread unemployment. As a result of investments in safe shale gas technology by natural gas companies, people are working and communities are again thriving. Repeated tests have shown that hydraulic fracturing in thousands of wells protects water supplies, and state and federal tests have found no groundwater contamination.
Mr. Hinchey would have us believe that because the federal government doesn't regulate it, there is lax regulation of hydraulic fracturing -- or none. Hydraulic fracturing operations are indeed rigorously regulated by states, which are best equipped to regulate because hydrologic and geologic conditions vary greatly from state to state, making a nationwide system unworkable.
Shale producers have a commitment to the environment and the communities in which they operate. They've adopted numerous industrywide standards to ensure safe and clean operations, as well as programs such as FracFocus.org, a Web site about fracking that lists the components of hydraulic fracturing fluids on a well-by-well basis.
JACK N. GERARD President and Chief Executive American Petroleum Institute Washington, Nov. 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (94%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (91%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (71%); WATER POLLUTION (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (55%)

PERSON: MAURICE D HINCHEY (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



565 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1950 words

HEADLINE: Don't Say You Didn't Know

BYLINE: By JULIE SATOW

 BODY:
TOD ABRAMS'S condo at the Orion on West 42nd Street has a custom Valcucine kitchen, floor-to-ceiling windows and views that stretch from the George Washington Bridge to the Chrysler Building.
A mint-condition two-bedroom, described by the broker as having ''a New York meets Los Angeles meets South Beach flavor,'' it is also in a race against time. It has been on the market since March, and Mr. Abrams, who has relocated to Los Angeles to be closer to his son and for work, has already slashed the price three times, to $1.575 million. He is hoping to sell the apartment in part because his monthly real estate taxes are poised to surge by more than 400 percent over the next several years.
That jump is mainly due to the city's 421a tax exemption program, which encouraged development of underused or unused land by drastically reducing property taxes for a set amount of time. Buyers got what seemed to be an unbelievable deal on taxes -- but with the caveat that it was only temporary and that someday, their rates would rise to what everyone else was paying. 
When Mr. Abrams bought the brand-new apartment in 2007, his taxes were just $35 a month; he now pays $374 a month. When the exemption runs its course, in 2018, the monthly tax bill will be an estimated $1,629.
''It is utterly ridiculous,'' said Mr. Abrams, a co-president of Alternative Marketing Solutions, which helps publicize films. ''I have a home in Los Angeles and Palm Springs, and California is famous for high taxes, yet we don't pay anything close to what I will be paying.''
During the real estate boom, from 2004 until the bubble burst in 2008, thousands of condominiums were built in Manhattan under the program. There are now more than 43,000 421a condominiums, the most since the program was started in 1971.
The 10-year exemptions, which decrease by 20 percent every two years, are now beginning to run their course. As a result, thousands of apartment owners across the city are seeing their tax bills surge. And while many condo owners are expecting this, because the information is contained in building offering plans, the increases are coming at a time when real estate prices are flat and the economy continues to flounder. A tax bill that is guaranteed to rise significantly is not a strong selling point.
''It will be a rude awakening to many New Yorkers who haven't been paying close attention,'' said Robert M. Pollack, a partner at the law firm Marcus & Pollack, who represents the 60-story Orion, at 350 West 42nd Street. ''And for many of them, it couldn't come at a worse time.''
On top of the expiring exemption, a second blow to Mr. Abrams and owners of high-end condos is rising tax assessments. Over the last three years, the city has raised the value of the Orion by 10.4 percent, 9.5 percent and 9 percent, respectively.
Similarly, at 340 East 23rd Street, a 2008 condominium with interiors designed by Philippe Starck, the city has raised the building's value over the past three years, first by 17 percent, then 10 percent, and most recently 21.5 percent.
''It's been a frustrating process,'' said Josh Fox, the president of the board at 340 East 23rd, which Mr. Pollack also represents. ''The city has bumped up the valuation of our building to an extreme level. We have a beautiful new building, don't get me wrong, but they are assessing our apartments as if we are in one of the most luxurious buildings on Fifth Avenue or the heart of TriBeCa,'' rather than off First Avenue.
The high valuations are ''having an enormous impact on sales prices,'' said Brian Morgan, a senior vice president of CitiHabitats who also lives at 340 East 23rd, ''because buyers realize there are only a few years left on these exemptions and so they say to the seller, 'You had much lower monthly charges than we will have, so it only makes sense that we pay less than you did.' ''
Mr. Morgan, whose taxes will rise 373 percent by the time the tax exemption expires in 2019, is representing a client who recently considered buying a two-bedroom condo at 110 Third Avenue. The asking price is $1.499 million, but the taxes will surge more than 300 percent in 2019, ''so I told them it isn't worth it for that price,'' he said.
The 421a program applies to areas of Manhattan where developers build condominiums on underutilized or unused land. In most of them, the exemption lasts for 10 years, giving owners a 100 percent exemption from any increases in their real estate taxes for two years, then phasing out the exemption by 20 percent every two years over the remaining eight. In Upper Manhattan and the other boroughs, the exemption can last for 15 or 25 years.
In 2008, 421a was overhauled to include, among other things, a requirement that developers set aside 20 percent of their units for affordable housing. As a result, fewer buildings are now entering the program.
There are a number of reasons that new condos have higher property taxes than older ones or comparable co-ops, tax experts said.
In New York City, the real estate tax rate for condominiums is 13.353 percent. This number is applied to the assessed value of the property, and the city assesses the properties anew every year. To assess the value of condominiums and co-ops, the city looks at how much income the building would produce if it were a rental.
''By law, we are required to value condominiums as if they were income-producing properties,'' said Michael Hyman, a deputy commissioner for tax policy and planning at the city Department of Finance, ''so we impute rental incomes even though the buildings are generally owner-occupied.'' The law went into effect in 1983, he said. At that time, the city was experiencing many co-op conversions, and the hope was that the legislation would diminish the disparity in value between rentals and co-ops.
Even though now it is condominiums that are making up an increasing proportion of the apartments in the city, the law does not reflect this shift, he said.
Taxes for new condos are usually higher than the taxes levied on older condo buildings, because the rental buildings used as comparison points are also of a newer vintage, and rarely have any rent-regulated tenants. Older condos, on the other hand, are compared with rentals that often have such tenants in place, lowering their overall assessed values. Since many co-op buildings are of an older vintage, they also often have lower tax assessments than new condos, even if the sales prices at the co-ops are far higher.
And the rental market has been very strong in recent quarters, helping to raise the overall assessment values of condominiums, even though sales prices may have fallen. ''People think that if the market goes down, then their condominium assessments should also go down,'' said William E. Banfield, a partner at the law firm Podell, Schwartz, Schecter & Banfield. ''So it is very hard to communicate that the assessments are based on rental incomes, and the sales price has nothing at all to do with it.''
Another factor for new-construction condominiums is the assessed value of land. As soon as a developer obtains a permit to start construction on a project, ''the city immediately starts increasing the land assessments,'' said Peter E. Blond, a partner at Brandt, Steinberg & Lewis, who represents buildings in assessment disputes. ''While the building may be exempt under the 421a program, the land is not exempt, so the city can raise the land assessment to guarantee themselves a bare minimum of tax revenue.''
Supporters of the 421a program point out that the offering plans that come with new condominiums outline what the taxes on a unit will be, with and without the 421a exemption.
But Paul J. Korngold, a partner at the law firm of Tuchman, Korngold, Weiss, Lippman & Gelles, who also represents buildings in assessment disputes, says ''those numbers are pure baloney.'' He says taxes in an offering plan are often based in part on the assessed value of the property before construction is completed, so the tax rate is being applied to a lower assessment that will not stand once the development is built and residents have moved in.
In addition, Mr. Korngold said, ''none of us can know what the assessment will be 10 years from now, but if history is a guide, whatever the assessment is today, you can bet the value will go up.''
Mr. Fox, the president of the condominium board at 340 East 23rd Street, said that was the case in his building. ''A lot of people were given an offering plan,'' he said, ''and so they felt they had a good understanding of what they would be paying in taxes. But by the time they closed on their apartment, that tax figure was already higher.''
He added, ''it's fundamentally unfair to have your taxes quoted at a certain level if that level does not reflect what you are actually purchasing, but rather reflects the construction status of a building at a much earlier point in time.''
According to the state attorney general, even if offering plans sometimes cite preconstruction assessment figures, developers are required to include footnotes that disclose the postconstruction costs.
Assessments can be challenged, of course, and many buildings regularly petition the New York City Tax Commission to lower their values. The commission received more than 47,000 petitions last year, the most in its history. Of those, 15 percent of the petitioners were offered lower assessments, and 12 percent agreed to them.
Nicholas Kamillatos, a partner at the law firm Rosenberg & Estis, who specializes in representing buildings in assessment cases, says it is crucial that owners pay attention to the assessed value of their property while the 421a exemption is in place. ''If they wait,'' Mr. Kamillatos said, ''and the city was overcharging them consecutively for three or four years, they will be fighting a higher overall price, and it will be much harder to argue their case.''
Still, some market experts say that even after the exemption expires, real estate taxes at many apartments will remain low. At 497 Greenwich Street, for example, Robert Browne, a senior vice president of the Corcoran Group, is representing the sellers of a 3,052-square-foot three-bedroom that is on the market for $5.25 million. Taxes are currently $2,778 a month, which, at less than $1 per square foot, ''is extremely low, as you would expect with the exemption,'' Mr. Browne said. But after the benefit wears off in 2015, the taxes will be $3,675, which, while a 32 percent increase, is still only $1.20 a square foot. ''And don't forget, real estate taxes are tax-deductible from your income,'' he added. ''As long as your taxes aren't unreasonably high at the end of it, the wearing off of an exemption shouldn't have a dire effect.''
In any case, brokers say, the onus is on buyers to know exactly what they will pay and to be realistic about how much of a tax increase they can afford.
''When an apartment has a 421a exemption,'' said Paul Purcell, a founding partner at Rutenberg Realty, ''it is akin to winning the temporary lottery. But I always tell clients, 'Can you weather the storm at the end of 10 years? Is this going to be an acceptable carrying cost when you see the real taxes you will be paying?' That is the real question they need to answer.''
Correction: November 20, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about expiring property tax exemptions on condominiums in New York City misstated the magnitude of the expected tax increase at a three-bedroom apartment at 497 Greenwich Street. The taxes will increase to an estimated $3,675 a month from $2,778 a month, a 32 percent increase -- not a 132 percent increase.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bought in 2007 for $1,575,000
On the market now for $1,575,000
Original monthly taxes:$35
Current monthly taxes: $374
Estimated monthly taxes in 2018:$1,629
350 West 42nd Street, Apt. 48D (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Bought in 2007 for $1,320,000
On the market now for $1,499,000
Original monthly taxes: $102
Current monthly taxes: $339
Estimated monthly taxes in 2019: $1,065
110 Third Avenue, Apt. 5D (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(RE1)
Bought in 2008 for $1,865,000
Original monthly taxes: $229
Current monthly taxes: $641
Estimated monthly taxes in 2019: $2,393
340 East 23rd Street, Apt. 8M
OUCH: Josh Fox lives on East 23rd Street in a new condominium, one of many buildings that will be affected by surging real estate taxes.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Bought in 2005 for $3,180,000
On the market now for $5,250,000
Original monthly taxes: $258
Current monthly taxes: $2,778
Estimated monthly taxes in 2015: $3,675
497 Greenwich Street, Apt. 7B (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 REDRESS: Robert M. Pollack, a lawyer, represents buildings that went up under the 421a tax exemption program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); TAX LAW (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); PROPERTY TAX (88%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); PRICE CUTTING (75%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (74%); RELOCATIONS (72%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (67%); LEGAL SERVICES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2011



566 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: As Schools Sacrifice, TV Shows Flourish

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
On Tuesday afternoon, a hundred or so parents of New York City public-school children, most of them mothers from the leafier precincts of Brooklyn, gathered outside the Manhattan office of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo to rally against the potential extinguishing of the so-called millionaires' tax. With $1.4 billion for schools cut from the state budget last year, these parents wondered why the governor was so committed to helping the well-off become even better positioned. ''Millionaire rhymes with fair and share,'' one placard announced.
At no point during this vigorous protest season has the presence of white-shirted police lieutenants seemed more absurd than at a gathering where a young child carried a sign reading: ''Don't take away my music class.''
Parents in New York City, including those at Arts and Letters, a school in the Clinton Hill section of Brooklyn, are now routinely depended upon to supply classrooms with paper towels, tissues, crayons, cleaning products and so on. Increasingly and inconceivably in the city's public schools, volunteerism is expected to keep the system upright. As one father proclaimed to the crowd, boiling the issue down to its essence: ''You can't sell $1.4 billion worth of cupcakes.'' 
From August of last year through the end of 2014, as it happens, the state will have given away considerably more than that -- $2.1 billion -- in the form of another dubious tax advantage: the $420 million a year in subsidies it provides the film and television industry to keep production from going elsewhere. Film tax credits came into vogue in the early aughts to compete with financial incentives offered by Canada. Forty states deployed them last year; New York accounted for about a quarter of the money spent across the country. More recently, several states have ended their programs or suspended financing.
In 2008, the state increased the credit to 30 percent from 10 percent of production expenses unrelated to the costs of creative talent. (Those ''below the line'' dollars, in industry parlance, pay for things like lighting, location fees, food and other mechanics.) The increase was adopted not because the state knew that the money pumped into the economy by the credit would filter down to the most deserving, but out of a fear that neighboring states, doling out even more generous subsidies, were stealing the business.
''What drove the increase was competition,'' Pat Kaufman, executive director of the New York State Governor's Office for Motion Picture and Television Development, told me. Imagine if we had lost ''Gossip Girl'' to Scranton.
Film tax credits have long been unpalatable to economists and policy analysts (not to mention the current governor of New Jersey). A comprehensive, independent study issued last year by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a research group devoted to the effects of fiscal policies on low- and moderate-income people, criticized the overly simplistic economic impact analysis used to justify them. Mr. Cuomo proposed increasing the allocation to $420 million from $350 million annually after the state commissioned a study from Ernst & Young with co-sponsorship from the Motion Picture Association of America. (The study calculated a return on investment based on a figure that is lower than the amount now being spent.)
Beyond the obvious issue of bias, the study is ''highly problematic,'' said James Parrott, chief economist of the Fiscal Policy Institute, a nonpartisan group devoted to New York State issues. It is based on imprecise assertions, the first and most egregious being that production companies would leave without the credit, and another that filming would have declined at the same rate that it had before the credit took hold.
''I have never seen an economic impact analysis that makes such bold assumptions to push up the overall numbers,'' Mr. Parrott said.
When we are talking about the film and television business in New York State, we are mostly talking about the film and television business in New York City, scenes of which have provided iconic backdrops seemingly since the invention of the moving image. In many instances -- ''Law and Order'' and its offshoots, three decades' worth of Woody Allen, and indeed ''Gossip Girl'' -- the city itself is a character so central to the entire gestalt that no producer concerned with authenticity would shoot elsewhere.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and his cultural attaches have consistently boasted of the growth of the film industry during his administration, laying gratitude largely at the hands of the subsidy. Tourism, it is presumed, blossoms when the world sees more and more of New York on screen. That celebrities walk among us causes people to come, the city's film commissioner reasoned.
Of course, there is absolutely no way to quantify whether this is true. (I can say that telling out-of-town friends that I regularly see Maggie Gyllenhaal at my subway stop has caused not a single one of them to come and sample my new sleeper sofa.)
It is hard to think of another show that could have delivered more spendthrift tourists to Manhattan than ''Sex and the City,'' which was filmed here in the ostensibly dark days before the credit's advent. More recently, we have had ''The Real Housewives of New York City'' promoting the world of the $800 shoe; as a reality series it has no claim to the credit at all.
There are a record number of television shows filming in New York now -- 23 prime-time series. Undoubtedly, the film business is a good thing for the state and city. It provides jobs to struggling actors, set designers, caterers, electricians. But in a number of instances the subsidy is gift-wrapped cash doled out to productions that would be here regardless.
Articles about ''The Good Wife,'' where New York suffers the indignity of standing in for Chicago (thus not even benefitting from the publicity), have repeatedly pointed out that the show is shot here because its star, Julianna Margulies, likes living in New York. The same is true for the new drama ''A Gifted Man,'' which is shot here, its executive producer, Neal Baer, told me, because the life of the city is such an important dimension of the show and because its star, Patrick Wilson, wanted to be in New York.
The landscape of the five boroughs is also intrinsic to the series ''Blue Bloods.'' When the popular show, about a family of New York City police officers, filmed its initial episode in 2009, the state's subsidy fund had come up short and could not promise that the series would get the credits it had anticipated. ''CBS was going to lose $8 million as a result,'' the show's executive producer, Leonard Goldberg, told me. But according to Mr. Goldberg, Leslie Moonves, the chairman of the network, proclaimed: ''If we get the money, we get the money; if not, that's O.K. Just don't give me a show that looks as though it could have been shot in Cleveland.''
The producer Chuck Weinstock's adaptation of Henry James's ''What Maisie Knew,'' starring Julianne Moore was shot downtown in the summer, and it will definitely not look as though it had been shot in Cleveland. When I asked Mr. Weinstock why he was filming in New York, he said: ''It was either shoot in New York or not make the movie.''
As great as it is to support independent films like this one, given the current circumstance in the state and city -- and the number of mothers hauling rolls of Bounty to school from Costco -- it seems a particular lunacy that we keep enriching a glamour industry without at the very least conducting the most rigorous and thoughtful kinds of cost-benefit analyses.
This weekend I'm going to make a protest sign: ''Play-Doh first, 'Gossip Girl' later.''
E-mail: bigcity@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BRIGHT LIGHTS: A set for ''Law & Order: Special Victims Unit'' in Harlem. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1)
TO THE STREETS: Parents protesting a plan to repeal the state's ''millionaires' tax''
a set for ''Law and Order: Special Victims Unit,'' a show eligible for tax breaks for production in New York. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); FILM (88%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (86%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (69%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (69%)

COMPANY: MOTION PICTURE & TELEVISION FUND INC (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011



567 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Paper Republic

BYLINE: By LIGAYA MISHAN. 
Ligaya Mishan is a frequent contributor to The Times.

 BODY:
CHINA IN TEN WORDS
By Yu Hua.Translated by Allan H. Barr
225 pp. Pantheon Books. $25.95
In 1978, 18-year-old Yu Hua was assigned the task of administering vaccinations in southern China. The only needles available were barbed from overuse, and with each shot he extracted a scrap of flesh. At night, haunted by the sobs of children whose arms he had bloodied, he would grind the needles sharp until his fingers blistered. In the introduction to his new essay collection, ''China in Ten Words,'' he blames himself for making the children suffer, and says he should have tested a needle on his own arm -- sacrificed his own chunk of flesh. It is a shrewd gambit for a Chinese writer seeking to speak his mind without bringing down the ire of the government: to begin by offering, in proper Maoist tradition, self-criticism. 
This does not, however, seem to have appeased the censors. ''China in Ten Words'' depicts a morally compromised nation, plagued by escalating unemployment, class polarization and endemic corruption and waste. At the extremes, peasants traverse the land selling their blood to the highest bidder while multimillionaires build mansions that are replicas of the White House. ''By day a company executive sits at his desk in a copycat version of the Oval Office,'' Yu Hua writes. ''By night he takes his pretty secretary by the hand and leads her into the copycat Lincoln Bedroom.''
The book has not been published in China, where Yu Hua still lives, yet its unflattering details are not far removed from the gold-plated toilets and artificial hymens of his previous book, the satirical novel ''Brothers,'' which sold over a million copies in his native country. In an Op-Ed that appeared in The New York Times in June, he explained the difference in the books' reception: '' 'Brothers' does a May 35th'' -- the term Chinese bloggers use to circumvent the censors when referring to the 1989 Tiananmen Square crackdown -- ''and 'China in Ten Words' is more like June 4th,'' the actual day of the massacre.
Such lexical innovations, evasions and revisions give ''China in Ten Words'' its form. Each essay is devoted to a particular word -- its origins, its devaluation or appreciation in meaning -- starting with ''people'' (as in ''serve the'') and ending with ''bamboozle,'' an arc that, for Yu Hua, seems to pretty much sum up the past half-century of Chinese history.
At times his interpretations can seem dogmatic. To American readers, ''grass roots'' simply describes ''the common people.'' He defines it more rigidly as ''disadvantaged classes that operate at some remove from the mainstream and the orthodox.'' (The protesters at Zuccotti Park may agree.) He charges that the poor were ''banned'' from entering the Olympic Park in Beijing in 2008, when what he means is that they could not afford tickets for admission. Welcome to capitalism.
As in ''Brothers,'' the tone here is populist, with many comic digressions. This is a tale told by a raconteur, not an academic -- an uneven mixture of memoir and polemic, farce and fury, short on statistics but long on passion. The most powerful and vivid sections reach back to Yu Hua's childhood during the Cultural Revolution, when Mao's quotations were plastered everywhere, even on spittoons, and the slightest misstep -- folding a picture of Mao so that a cross appeared on his face, for example -- could have you labeled a counterrevolutionary.
Embedded in this is the story of how Yu Hua became a writer. He hunted down illicit copies of Western novels, which had gone through so many furtive hands that often the final pages were missing. ''How these stories without resolutions made me suffer!'' he recalls. ''I began to think up endings for myself.''
''China in Ten Words'' is itself inconclusive. Yu Hua offers one last memory, of how as a child he faked a stomachache to get out of chores and wound up on the operating table. (His father was a doctor.) It is a cautionary tale about the risks of subterfuge, of trying to sneak something past one's father -- or, perhaps, one's ever vigilant government.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH OF YU HUA COURTESY OF FABRICA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); WRITERS (78%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); FARM LABOR (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); CORRUPTION (52%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CHINA (90%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: China In Ten Words (Book)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



568 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: Foraging On City Streets

BYLINE: By COLIN MOYNIHAN

 BODY:
WHEN bottle and can deposits became a fact of life in New York City almost 20 years ago, some of the first to capitalize on the new law were the homeless. Many who live on the streets still redeem cans and bottles at grocery stores, but in parts of Lower Manhattan, the most prominent collectors are not without homes. They are older Chinese men and women, who often haul immense loads of plastic, aluminum and glass through the streets. 
For these collectors, most of them recent immigrants with little command of English, recycling, an underground economy in a city of plenty, is a source of income that is not contingent on citizenship. Nobody at a recycling center asks for a Social Security number.
A photographer based in Brooklyn, Annie Ling, who has been documenting immigrants, became interested in the collectors a few years ago, she said, partly because of their resilience and work ethic. She spent time with a few of them as they searched the curbs and trash bins of Chinatown and the Lower East Side, then exchanged bottles and cans for cash at supermarkets.
Collectors who work regularly typically earn about $20 a day, Ms. Ling said. Some earn more. They push their salvaged bounty through the streets in canvas mail bins or haul shopping carts outfitted with vertical poles to make their unwieldy cargo easier to steer. Some carry plastic bags of cans over their shoulders or balanced on their heads. A few sling two such bags on either end of a bamboo pole that is balanced on the shoulders.
Some collectors venture out in the afternoons. Others prefer the early hours of the morning, when a fleeting calm descends on usually bustling streets. While walking through the Lower East Side during the quiet hours, Ms. Ling said, she would sometimes find the collectors by listening.
''In the middle of the night I would close my eyes,'' she said. ''I would hear the bottles clinking down the block and know someone was close.'' COLIN MOYNIHAN

CORRECTION-DATE: November 21, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about collectors of discarded bottles and cans misstated the time frame during which bottle and can deposits became a fact of life in New York City. It was almost 30 years ago, not almost 20. (The state law was put into effect in 1983.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SORTING: Chang Yi Ang, 63, has been redeeming aluminum cans in Chinatown twice a week for three years. Like many collectors, he wears rubber gloves to avoid having his skin touch sticky bottles or cans.
 TRANSPORTING: Top, a woman collected bottles and cans around 4 a.m., as bars on the Lower East Side closed. Left, a woman consolidated bags that she stored overnight. Below, Mr. Chang redeemed his cans at a Pathmark. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANNIE LING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (78%); ETHICS (77%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (76%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2011



569 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEW JERSEY DINING LITTLE FERRY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Back Again From Italy, With Boar and More

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

 BODY:
THE culinary career of Nicola Moncada, the owner of Il Cinghiale in Little Ferry, has never left him in one place for all that long. Born in Sicily, he made his way to Florence, London, Paris and New York before returning to Italy and opening his first restaurant in Novara, 30 miles west of Milan, in 1995. In 2000, he followed a brother to New Jersey and opened Nicola Due in Little Falls, a small but popular B.Y.O. that, he says, served up a lot of ''chicken parm.''
Last year, feeling ''burned out,'' he sold Nicola Due and moved back to Italy, he said on the phone after my visits to his latest venture; he thought it might be for good. But the economy over there was no better, and by February he was back in New Jersey and back in business. 
Il Cinghiale -- ''the Wild Boar'' -- his new, modestly decorated trattoria, is somewhat bigger, though still intimate, and chicken parm is decidedly off the menu. Hoping to stand apart, Mr. Moncada features wild boar in an ever-changing variety of preparations, along with an eclectic mix of seafood, pastas and entrees reflecting his roots in Sicily as well as his years in Tuscany and the Piedmont.
The restaurant's tangy sweet-and-sour eggplant salad special, for example, is a Sicilian staple: fried eggplant marinated for half a day in white wine, vinegar and sugar and combined with capers, olives, pine nuts, carrots and celery. It arrives over a bed of baby arugula that nicely offsets its sweetness and tartness. The appetizer of figs, goat cheese and salami, a seasonal special that sadly will disappear for the winter, employs grape must, a grainy juice concentrate imported from Apulia, to flavor the fresh figs, stuffed with cheese and served with sopressata.
Mr. Moncada also imports burrata cheese from Apulia to serve in a salad with roasted peppers and grilled zucchini and eggplant; he prefers its taste to the domestic variety. But I found it a bit wan. Other unmemorable dishes included the baccala salad, which was somehow both bland and salty, and the risotto with asparagus and shrimp, which was just bland. More enjoyable, if not exceptional, were the appetizer of brandy beef tartare flavored with orange and lemon, and the veal osso buco entree with saffron risotto.
To sample what gives Il Cinghiale its name (pronounced eel chin-GYAH-leh) we tried the pappardelle in wild boar ragu. Unlike pork, it is a red meat. The ground meat is cooked with Chianti, vegetables, cloves and bay leaves to reduce the gaminess. But the result left me wanting more of the meat's natural taste, not less. And the ragu, while sweet, was dry. And a bit stingy: More sauce, please!
I had a similar reaction to a pan-roasted wild boar tenderloin special on my second visit. The port wine reduction and fresh figs were a nice enough accompaniment, but the meat itself left me wondering what the fuss was about.
Of the entrees we tried, the standout was not a wild boar dish but a filet mignon served in a shallow pool of Gorgonzola sauce. Here, Mr. Moncada's bias toward imports worked well: The Italian cheese is creamier than its counterparts and melts into something like fondue, he says. He enhances it with heavy cream for a pungent, lavish counterpoint to a precisely pan-seared piece of juicy beef.
Desserts are another strong suit. The limoncello tartufo is a fluffy, delightful palate-cleanser; the homemade Bavarian cream with berries isn't as heavy as it sounds but is plenty tasty; and the pistachio gelato, served with chocolate liqueur, is even richer than the fine tiramisu.
Mr. Moncada likes to say he cooks simple food, nothing fancy -- he calls wild boar ''upscale pork'' -- and his presence in the dining room, though nearly constant, is equally understated. Except for a simple hello to patrons and some small talk with the regulars, he lets the menu speak for itself. The dishes on that menu would need to have a bit more flavor, perhaps even a touch of excess, to make Il Cinghiale more than a nice-enough neighborhood spot.
Il Cinghiale
201 Main Street
Little Ferry
(201) 440-2272
O.K.
THE SPACE Seating for 50 in a tile-floored room decorated with paintings of Italy. When the room is full, it can get loud. Fully wheelchair accessible.
THE CROWD Generally middle-aged and older, often in foursomes.
THE STAFF Affable and efficient but reserved.
THE BAR Bring your own wine.
THE BILL Dinner entrees, fairly priced at $13.95 to $24.95. Visa, MasterCard, American Express and Discover are accepted.
WHAT WE LIKED Sweet-and-sour eggplant salad; fig, goat cheese and salami appetizer; beef tartare; filet mignon in gorgonzola sauce; veal osso buco; limoncello tartufo; Bavarian cream and mixed berries; pistachio gelato.
IF YOU GO Lunch: Tuesday to Friday, noon to 2:30 p.m. Dinner: Tuesday to Thursday, 5 to 9:30 p.m.; Friday and Saturday, 5 to 10 p.m.; Sunday, 4 to 9 p.m. Closed Monday. Reservations might be needed on weekends. Parking in the back for 25 cars, and unmetered spots on Main Street.
RATINGS Don't Miss, Worth It, O.K., Don't Bother.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TUSKS AND TUSCANY: The dining room at Il Cinghiale, owned by the much-traveled Nicola Moncada. Dishes besides wild boar include filet mignon in a Gorgonzola sauce, left, and Bavarian cream with berries. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); MAMMALS (88%); CHEESE (86%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (86%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (64%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (60%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) ITALY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



570 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: For Ex-Lobbyist Abramoff, a Multimedia Effort at Redemption

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
High over Central Park, in a private screening room on the 51st floor of the Time Warner Center last Sunday night, Jack Abramoff, the onetime supervillain of lobbying, had an unusual coming out.
Mr. Abramoff had come to Manhattan to roll out his rehabilitative media campaign, and with a dozen friends and colleagues -- among them his lawyer; his publicist; his literary agent; and the evening's host, a wealthy Israeli equities investor -- he now sat to watch himself on ''60 Minutes,'' his debut interview since getting out of prison last December. There was popcorn, potato chips and seltzer; a kosher sushi dinner waited in the main room. The television, 60 inches wide, was mounted on the wall in movie-theater style.
It was an extraordinary backdrop for a man on the eve of re-emergence from one of the most spectacular scandals in recent political history; but then, Mr. Abramoff is an extraordinary man. At 53, he is unemployed, insolvent and trying -- as you may know from his numerous appearances last week -- to redeem and rebrand himself.
What you may not know is that Jack Abramoff, being Jack Abramoff -- which is to say, a genetically energetic operator -- is also working on a few small personal projects on the side. 
There is, for instance, his Facebook game app, ''Congressional Jack'' (think ''Farmville'' for armchair lobbyists), or his still-developing venture into what his partner-producer, Roy Bank of ''Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader?'' fame, likes to call the ''unscripted television space.''
Mr. Abramoff is available for speaking engagements (''The Secret of Power,'' ''A Congress for Sale'') and has briefed F.B.I. agents on the nature of corruption. There is also a feature film in the works about the lobbying milieu, one being financed by the host of Sunday's party, Eli Zicherman, who met Mr. Abramoff two years ago on a good-will trip to the Federal Correctional Institution in Cumberland, Md., to observe the Jewish New Year with inmates.
''When I met Jack, he told me what he was involved with, and I was very impressed,'' Mr. Zicherman said recently. ''I thought I could help him raise some capital.''
The truth is that while celebrity redemption seems simple on its surface (take 1 oz. of candor, add 2 oz. of remorse, shake on national TV), it can actually be a complicated cocktail.
Even before he served three and a half years for crimes that included corrupting members of Congress with illegal golf trips to Scotland, he was thinking of coming back. His tell-all memoir, ''Capitol Punishment,'' was released this month. But plans for it were in his head before he went away -- a searching time when he confessed in an interview to be looking for his ''own narrative.''
Having grown up in Hollywood, Mr. Abramoff lapses naturally into the jargon of the pitch meeting, and even now admits to knowing enough about ''entertainment platforms'' to understand that his forays into show business may take years to succeed, if at all.
What he really needs -- and quickly -- is a paycheck. He owes more than $40 million to the Indian tribes he was convicted of bilking as a lobbyist (he disputes this bilking), and his bank account dwindled in prison. His first job coming out was an $8-an-hour position as an accountant at a kosher pizzeria. The job before that, as a clerk in the chaplain's office in prison, paid him at the hourly rate of 12 cents.
Which is why he was hitting the media hustings hard last week, making mea culpas and offering his inside take on Washington -- while simultaneously setting up meetings with network executives about his planned reality TV show. This conflation of public service and private business is classic Abramoff, and it reflects his latest and most personal lobbying effort yet: the one in which he lobbies for himself.
''What I want to do is something to undo what I did,'' he said in trying to explain his transformation, an act that played out all week on ''Hannity,'' ''The Early Show,'' ''Piers Morgan Tonight'' and others. ''The hope is I can use my natural infamy in a positive way.''
There is no doubt that because of his infamy, Mr. Abramoff garnered a clinician's understanding of the illnesses of K Street and, like any good doctor, he has written prescriptions. In his book, he lays out proposals for banning political contributions from anyone doing business with the government and for closing the revolving door between Congress and lobbying firms.
These remedies, he says, came to him in prison, where he often made solitary circuits of the unpaved perimeter path, riddling out the fix to Congressional corruption like a jailhouse Napoleon in exile. At the same time, inveterately restless, he was also teaching courses in public speaking and screenwriting to his fellow inmates and, under the auspices of his job in the chaplain's office, instituted a highly popular movie night.
While it is hard to know which, if any, of Mr. Abramoff's ventures might pan out, he says he is encouraged by the sympathetic comments he has gotten on his newly established Web site, Abramoff.com. The site, which describes him as ''out and ready to speak,'' has links to his Facebook page, his LinkedIn presence and his Twitter feed.
Just the other day, he received a Twitter message from a new follower, Aaron Mehta, which poignantly captured the nature of his makeover. ''Things I wouldn't ever think I'd say in 2006,'' wrote Mr. Mehta, a staff writer with the Center for Public Integrity. ''Now following @jackabramoff on Twitter.''
It may be that Mr. Bank, the TV producer, was correct in saying that ''the only thing Americans love better than a success story is a comeback story.''
The ''60 Minutes'' segment was the first step in that comeback, and Mr. Abramoff, perhaps bravely, said before it was broadcast that he was not concerned by the thought of how the correspondent Leslie Stahl would portray him. He looked a little peaked in his sports coat on Sunday night, but he later wrote, in an e-mail recalling the experience: ''I was obviously a bit anxious to see how they would treat me, but not a high degree of anxiety. After what I have been through, the tick-tock of '60 Minutes' is not too intimidating.''
Nonetheless, at the first tick he went silent, and throughout the segment the screening room remained so quiet that the muffled pings of texts and e-mails arriving on his smartphone could be heard. When it ended, Mr. Abramoff, surrounded by his entourage, repaired to the dining area. There, amid the sushi and sprawling city views, Abbe Lowell, his powerhouse lawyer, convened a focus group.
''So, what did everybody think?'' Mr. Lowell asked. ''Who wants to go first?''
Adjectives were offered: ''Sincere.'' ''Contrite.'' ''Knowledgeable.'' Someone said Mr. Abramoff had handled repentance well. Mr. Lowell said, definitively, ''It was a good piece.''
Then it was Mr. Abramoff's turn. After joking that he looked fat, he admitted that he had not liked the way the profile was edited to make it seem as if he was smirking. He was not smirking, he said, and did not want to seem to have been smirking.
''All I want,'' he finally said, ''is for people not to see me as this cartoon monster.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jack Abramoff's memoir proposes closing the revolving door between Congress and lobbying firms. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PRISONS (75%); FILM (74%); SCANDALS (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); LAWYERS (73%); LITERATURE (71%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); LITERARY AGENTS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); REALITY TELEVISION (69%); ROSH HASHANAH (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); CUMBERLAND, MD, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



571 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ONE-PAGE MAGAZINE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: The Money Column

BYLINE: By JACOB GOLDSTEIN

 BODY:
Considering that two New York City taxi medallions recently sold for $1 million each, an all-time high, some fear we are currently experiencing a medallion bubble. After all, low interest rates make it cheaper to buy a medallion with borrowed money, and prices have doubled in the past five years. At the going rate, the total value of all medallions is more than $10 billion -- more than the market capitalization of several large U.S. airlines. But not everyone sees them as overvalued assets. ''These are mini cash cows running around the city,'' says Andrew Murstein, president of Medallion Financial, a publicly traded company that finances medallion investors. ''It's something that at least for the next hundred years is a great investment.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (88%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (73%)

COMPANY: MEDALLION FINANCIAL CORP (56%)

TICKER: TAXI (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (56%); SIC6153 SHORT-TERM BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS EX. AGRICULTURAL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



572 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: The Fever For Flat Taxes

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''The Problem With Flat Tax Fever'' (Economic View, Nov. 6), Robert H. Frank says that flat taxes have been embraced by most of the current Republican presidential candidates and that such taxes would increase inequalities by penalizing low- and middle-income groups while rewarding the wealthy few. 
He sees that as a problem, but Republicans don't. The latter can pretend all they want that their objective is to simplify income taxes, but it's obvious that their real intent is precisely to favor the ultrarich. Though Mr. Frank points to research that greater income inequalities foster ''a range of social ills,'' does he really expect this to deter or embarrass Republicans, who could not care less about ordinary Americans? They worship the rich and powerful -- everyone else is dispensable. What Mr. Frank sees as a danger to society, Republicans see as an ideal objective. This is what makes them so scary.
Roger Carasso
Los Angeles, Nov. 7
To the Editor:
Robert H. Frank makes the following statement: ''The contention that a flat tax would be simpler because it involves only a single rate is flatly wrong. The complexity of the current system has nothing to do with its multiple income brackets.''
Of course, he's absolutely correct. So why do flat tax proponents continue to imply the flat tax would be simpler? And, more important, why do they continue to get away with it?
I believe they are taking advantage of what we commonly call ''math phobia.'' While anyone with an eighth-grade education is quite able to compute his or her taxes, many people feel stumped when asked to reason about numbers and calculations. This feeling is encouraged by politicians (and, interestingly, local news anchors) who regularly claim -- only partly in jest -- that it requires a Ph.D. in mathematics to, say, compute our taxes (or do a host of other activities that require basic arithmetic).
We should expect the media to regularly challenge such misleading statements. And let's task our educational system to get us past our anxiety. If not, there will always be someone who is willing to take advantage of us. That is something to really be afraid of. Stephen Polit
Belmont, Mass., Nov. 7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MATHEMATICS (86%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



573 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; GREENTECH; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Turning Up the Pressure To Keep Gas in the Game

BYLINE: By PAUL STENQUIST

 BODY:
IT should come as no surprise when the headlines coursing out of news conferences during this week's press previews of the Los Angeles auto show turn out to be strongly flavored with terms like hybrid and electric.
As automakers scramble to meet coming rounds of federal fuel economy standards, alternative powertrains are sure to be among the highlights of the show, which opens to the public on Nov. 18 and runs through Nov. 27.
Hybrids, plug-in hybrids and battery-electric vehicles are only part of the solution to raising the efficiency of the nation's vehicle fleet, however. Their disadvantages, including high initial cost and a scarcity of charging stations, have helped to keep engineers at work improving conventional piston engines.
That is especially true at smaller automakers like Mazda, which has no hybrid system of its own and says it has no plans to bring hybrids or electric vehicles to the United States. 
At the Los Angeles show, Mazda will introduce the CX-5, a compact crossover that will also serve as the showcase for a portfolio of technologies the company calls Skyactiv. The package includes high-efficiency 6-speed transmissions, lighter bodies and, for some markets outside the United States, a diesel engine.
But the most daring advance is the 2-liter Skyactiv-G gasoline engine. That 4-cylinder power plant made its North American debut in the 2012 Mazda 3, where it raised the fuel economy rating to 28 m.p.g in town and 40 on the highway with an automatic transmission, from 24/33 for the 2011 model sedan with a 2-liter engine. In the Mazda 3, the engine develops 155 horsepower at 6,000 r.p.m. and 148 pound-feet of torque at 4,100 r.p.m. on regular-grade gasoline.
At first glance, the engine seems to follow a well-established path for improving efficiency: raising the compression ratio, or the amount that the mixture of air and fuel in the cylinder is squeezed as the piston travels to the top of its stroke. But where ratios of around 10:1 are typical today, the Skyactiv-G in the Mazda 3 wrings more work out of the gasoline by compressing the cylinder's contents at a ratio of 12:1.
When the 2013 CX-5 arrives in showrooms early next year, it will be the first vehicle to get all of the Skyactiv features. Revisions to its engine include a higher compression ratio of 13:1. (That specification applies to the United States market; a ratio of 14:1 will be used in Europe where drivers tend to be more diligent about using premium fuel.) Mileage estimates and output for the CX-5 have not been released.
Mazda's decision to increase efficiency by raising the engine's compression ratio is a departure from today's common practice, as many automakers have settled on turbochargers as the best way to produce more power from small engines. Turbocharging, which uses an exhaust-driven pump to force air into the engine under pressure, can yield greater power gains than raising the compression ratio.
Dave Coleman, a Mazda product development engineer, explained the reasoning behind Mazda's decision in a telephone interview. First, he said, a high-compression engine costs less; a turbocharger, which has precision internal parts that spin at very high speeds, is an expensive part.
Second, turbos take some time to build pressure when the accelerator is pressed, so even in the latest designs some lag may be noticed. Finally, Mr. Coleman says, with a high compression ratio combustion is efficient under a wide range of conditions, including low-speed, high-load situations, where turbocharged engines may be inefficient.
While raising an engine's compression ratio is a proven way to increase efficiency, it can also bring problems. As air entering the cylinders is compressed, its temperature naturally increases -- contributing to knocking, a condition in which combustion inside the cylinders proceeds abnormally.
While the temperature rise caused by compression cannot be avoided, other factors can be controlled. For example, there are ways to minimize the heat left behind by the combustion process.
The CX-5 is equipped with specially designed exhaust plumbing that Mazda calls a 4-2-1 system. The lengths of the tubes that carry the exhaust away from the engine -- four long primary pipes that feed into two secondary pipes, which then empty into a single exhaust -- were selected to minimize the possibility of burned gases re-entering the cylinders, a naturally occurring effect.
The exhaust system is too large to fit under the hood of the Mazda 3, which is why its engine has a lower compression ratio than the engine of the CX-5.
Direct fuel injection, an increasingly common feature on new models, also helps prevent engine knocking because one result of gasoline being sprayed into the cylinder is a cooling effect. To make the most of this property, the Skyactiv-G engine injects fuel two times for each combustion cycle. And by varying the timing of the sprays, drivability and cold-starting are improved.
Mazda engineers increased the engine's compression ratio in the standard manner, adding a raised area to the top surface of the piston. But that bump can literally block the progress of combustion in the cylinder, so the engineers designed a cavity in the piston that helps promote quicker burning. In addition, the engine has a relatively narrow cylinder bore, which lets the combustion flame reach the cylinder's edge sooner.
While high compression and the supporting technology are key features of the Skyactiv-G engine, other factors contribute to its efficiency. For instance, it uses variable valve timing, which adjusts valve opening and closing in accordance with speed and load. In addition, Mazda adopted modern lightweight design strategies to trim pounds, and internal friction was cut by 30 percent compared with the previous 2-liter engine.
A brief drive in a Mazda 3 with the 2-liter Skyactiv-G engine and a manual transmission found this combination to be flexible and responsive. Accelerating up an incline at full throttle in fourth gear from 1,200 r.p.m. -- a test that would have caused severe engine knock before electronic sensors were invented to detect the condition and make adjustments to the ignition timing and fuel injection -- yielded an unflustered response. The engine took a few seconds to reach 1,800 r.p.m. and then soldiered on rather willingly. In brisk driving, it lived up to Mazda's zoom-zoom credo.
The engine's agreeable nature and excellent mileage are important to Mazda, because for now gasoline power will be the only choice for the vehicles it sells in the United States. But as Mr. Coleman, the Mazda engineer, noted, a naturally aspirated engine, being less costly to produce, makes a better partner for a hybrid drive system than a turbocharged engine, so a hybrid is at least a possibility.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: POWER BUMP: To get a higher compression ratio in its Skyactiv-G engine, Mazda replaced the flat-top piston, left, with the raised design at right.
 NEW: The 2013 CX-5 crossover gets the full Skyactiv treatment, which includes the 2-liter gasoline engine. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAZDA MOTOR OF AMERICA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); POWER PLANTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); SEDANS (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



574 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 29A

LENGTH: 1565 words

HEADLINE: A Money-Laundering Case in Laredo Speaks to the Fears of Texas Leaders

BYLINE: By JULIAN AGUILAR. 
jaguilar@texastribune.org

 BODY:
LAREDO -- The high walls of Alexander Estates, an affluent development nestled near this border city's country club and golf course, were supposed to keep the narcotics world at bay. But when federal agents raided the stately home of a downtown perfume salesman in January, it reinforced a notion that is feared by Texas leaders: the drug war spillover from Mexico is much broader than shootouts and kidnappings -- it is cloaked in the seemingly routine business transactions of the border economy.
Neighbors stood, mouths agape, as federal agents seized loads of cash from the home of Vikram Datta, a polite family man who acquaintances said was so concerned with the quality of Laredo schools that he moved his teenage daughters back to their native New York. Federal agents leveled an accusation that shocked other residents: that Mr. Datta, 51, was a major player in the Black Market Peso Exchange, a decades-old system of laundering drug money and reinvesting it back into the economy. 
According to Mr. Datta's lawyers, who declined to make him or his family available for interviews, their client is a legitimate businessman who was entrapped by other drug-connected defendants to get lesser sentences for their own money-laundering schemes. But prosecutors contended, and a federal jury agreed in September when it convicted him on two counts of money-laundering conspiracy and one count of conspiracy to violate the travel act, that Mr. Datta's sales of millions of dollars worth of perfume to corrupt buyers in Mexico were fueled by greed. He knew, they said, that the underground drug economy -- involving some of the world's largest suppliers of narcotics to North America -- would make him rich.
Getting Inside
The Black Market Peso Exchange has been on the federal government's radar for years. The system was perfected by Colombian drug lords and later adopted by Mexican drug cartels: When drugs are sold in the United States, the proceeds, in American dollars, are smuggled back into Mexico or Colombia, where they are exchanged for pesos at a discounted rate.
The peso-exchange businesses then use the dollars to buy products in the United States -- in Mr. Datta's case, millions of dollars worth of perfume -- and have them shipped to purchasers in Mexico or Colombia.
The Department of Justice created a task force to infiltrate the American businesses cooperating with these money-laundering schemes, initially targeting Colombian drug dealers buying computer parts in New York, according to prosecutors. On wiretaps, investigators learned of a similar market in Mexico, this time involving American perfume wholesalers.
In Laredo, Mr. Datta, an immigrant from India, was basking in financial success. He had come to the United States in 1983 and became a naturalized citizen in 1994, according to his lawyers. On a business trip to Laredo in 2000, he discovered that inland port's gold mine: a downtown merchants sector where millions of dollars in goods and cash exchange hands every week.
Just a year after renting his first retail space in Laredo, Mr. Datta had four profitable perfume stores in the city in addition to operations in New York, Arizona and California. He was making $30 million in annual sales, his lawyer said.
Federal prosecutors, however, said that by 2009 Mr. Datta was an experienced money launderer for Mexico's Sinaloa drug cartel.
'All Sinaloa Money'
In 2009, the Justice Department task force focused an investigation on Ajay and Ankur Gupta, father and son perfume vendors in New Jersey who were accused of playing in the black market and, over a decade, netting millions of dollars. Mr. Datta's lawyers said the Guptas were known for careless transactions like picking up plastic-wrapped bulk cash in parking lots behind fast-food restaurants. When they were arrested, Mr. Datta's name surfaced in their records, and Mr. Datta's lawyers said the Guptas agreed to help implicate some of their business partners in order to shorten potential 20-year sentences.
The Guptas' lawyers refused to comment because their clients clients' cases have not been closed.
An attorney for Mr. Datta said the Guptas tried repeatedly to draw in Mr. Datta, trying to give him large cash payments, which he refused. Finally, prosecutors said, he accepted. At a 2010 trade show in Las Vegas, the Guptas introduced Mr. Datta to someone they claimed was a perfume vendor from Baja California Sur, Mexico. The man was actually an undercover federal agent.
Mr. Datta's illegal transactions started slowly but quickly increased, court documents indicate. Transcripts from wiretaps over the next six months, which were admitted at trial, indicate that Mr. Datta accepted a $40,000 infusion to one of his stores in California and later agreed to wire $100,000 to customers in New York. According to court documents, over the course of a two-year government sting, he and other co-conspirators deposited more than $25 million of American currency in dozens of bank accounts.
At one point, prosecutors said, Mr. Datta told an undercover agent, posing as a perfume vendor, that his business was ''just washing the whole money.'' In a conversation that he had with the agent in New York in December 2010, captured on wiretap, Mr. Datta said that ''a lot of cash is coming to me'' and that he was ''90 percent sure'' that it was ''all Sinaloa money.''
In the same conversation, the agent told Mr. Datta he had not been completely honest with him. ''I'm moving kilos for the Sinaloa,'' the agent said. Mr. Datta replied, ''O.K.''
Alan Ross, Mr. Datta's lawyer said: ''He smelled that this guy was an illegal man, that he was repping himself to be a money launderer. Normal instincts would be to run, but greed got the best of him.''
A Crucial Kidnapping
If Mr. Datta was not already convinced that his perfume vendor partner was part of the cartel, the kidnapping of a former client in Mexico City sealed the deal. Mr. Datta called the undercover agent -- who, unknown to him, had been listening in on his phone calls about the kidnapping -- to ask if he held any sway in getting the man released.
The agent hedged, pretending to know details of the kidnapping. Purely coincidentally, the kidnapped man was set free. Mr. Datta, elated, booked a flight to New York, Mr. Ross said, to thank his ''friend'' -- the undercover agent -- and ''kiss the godfather's ring, so to speak.''
But when Mr. Datta got to Manhattan in January, he was arrested and charged with conspiracy to commit money laundering and intent to distribute proceeds from drug trafficking. He was convicted after a two-week jury trial, and now awaits sentencing, facing a $1 million fine and up to 45 years in prison. To date, 29 people have been charged in connection with the Black Market Peso Exchange; 20 have been convicted.
Lawyers for Mr. Datta plan to appeal his conviction. Last week, they filed a motion for a retrial or an acquittal, claiming insufficient evidence to sustain a conviction. They said his story was a cautionary tale, one of an ambitious businessman whom federal agents lured into the nefarious underworld of money laundering.
''The government prosecutes people and, in this case, convicted him probably because he didn't go out and take affirmative steps to find out where customers in Mexico, where they were buying their U.S. dollars,'' Mr. Ross said. ''No one told him that. He didn't know.''
But prosecutors said that a cursory glance at the bread-crumb paths that made Mr. Datta his fortune would have easily led him to drug money. During his trial, Mr. Datta testified that his actions were driven by ''greed.''
Mr. Datta ''tried to mask dirty money with, of all things, the scent of perfume,'' Preet Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, said in a statement after Mr. Datta's arrest. ''But as this case demonstrates, even the sweetest-smelling money-laundering scheme is no match for determined law enforcement.''
'We Didn't Care'
On a recent day in Laredo, just blocks from the pedestrian bridge that connects Texas to the Mexican state of Tamaulipas, Les Norton, the executive director of the Downtown Merchants Association, spoke fondly of Mr. Datta.
As Mr. Norton, the owner of La Fama clothing store, stood across from the perfume store the Datta family still runs in the heart of downtown, he said that when his own mother died last year, Mr. Datta was the only member of Laredo's small but prominent Indian community who called to offer his condolences.
Despite Mr. Norton's disbelief that Mr. Datta could be tangled up in a criminal scheme, Mr. Norton said the millions of dollars his friend was convicted of exchanging for perfume was hard to fathom. Even in Laredo's heyday, Mr. Norton said, before Tamaulipas fell into the stranglehold of drug cartels and wait times tripled at border crossings, his own biggest bulk sales of blue jeans came nowhere near Mr. Datta's figures.
''The stories, the rumors that you hear are mind-boggling,'' Mr. Norton said. ''That blows my mind, that one customer wanted to buy millions.''
Still, he acknowledged that in the border marketplace, money could be difficult to track.
''If you go back years ago, before the economic downturn, yeah, we would have big sales,'' Mr. Norton said. ''We didn't care who it was. As long as we didn't have counterfeit bills and the credit card went through, that's what we were interested in.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A busy corner currency exchange store near Vikram Datta's store in downtown Laredo. (A29A)
 Vikram Datta's home in a northeast suburb of Laredo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENNIFER WHITNEY FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) (A29B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONEY LAUNDERING (92%); CONSPIRACY (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); SMUGGLING (78%); GOLF (78%); SENTENCING (77%); PERFUMES & COLOGNES (77%); WHOLESALERS (75%); IMMIGRATION (73%); CARTELS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); NATURALIZATION (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); LAWYERS (72%); JURY TRIALS (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); WIRETAPPING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAREDO, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); COLOMBIA (94%); MEXICO (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



575 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Billions Wasted on Billing

BYLINE: By EZEKIEL J. EMANUEL. 
An oncologist, a former White House adviser and a vice provost and professor of medical ethics and health policy at the University of Pennsylvania. He is a contributing opinion writer for The New York Times.

 BODY:
LAST year I had to have a minor biopsy. Every time I went in for an appointment, I had to fill out a form requiring my name, address, insurance information, emergency contact person, vaccination history, previous surgical history and current medical problems, medications and allergies. I must have done it four times in just three days. Then, after my procedure, I received bills -- and, even more annoying, statements of charges that said they weren't bills -- almost daily, from the hospital, the surgeon, the primary care doctor, the insurance company.
Imagine that repeated millions of times daily and you have one of the biggest money wasters in our health care system. Administration accounts for roughly 14 percent of what the United States spends on health care, or about $360 billion per year. About half of all administrative costs -- $163 billion in 2009 -- are borne by Medicare, Medicaid and insurance companies. The other half pays for the legions employed by doctors and hospitals to fill out billing forms, keep records, apply for credentials and perform the myriad other administrative functions associated with health care. 
The range of expert opinions on how much of this could be saved goes as high as $180 billion, or half of current expenditures. But a more conservative and reasonable estimate comes from David Cutler, an economist at Harvard, who calculates that for the whole system -- for insurers as well as doctors and hospitals -- electronic billing and credentialing could save $32 billion a year. And United Health comes to a similar estimate, with 20 percent of savings going to the government, 50 percent to physicians and hospitals and 30 percent to insurers. For health care cuts to matter, they have to be above 1 percent of total costs, or $26 billion a year, and this conservative estimate certainly meets that threshold.
How do we get to these savings? First, electronic health records would eliminate the need to fill out the same forms over and over. An electronic credentialing system shared by all hospitals, insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid, state licensing boards and other government agencies, like the Drug Enforcement Administration, could reduce much of the paperwork doctors are responsible for that patients never see. Requiring all parties to use electronic health records and an online system for physician credentialing would reduce frustration and save billions.
But the real savings is in billing. There are at least six steps in the process: 1) determining a patient's eligibility for services; 2) obtaining prior authorization for specialist visits, tests and treatments; 3) submitting claims by doctors and hospitals to insurers; 4) verifying whether a claim was received and where in the process it is; 5) adjudicating denials of claims; and 6) receiving payment.
Substantial costs arise from the fact that doctors, hospitals and other care providers must bill multiple insurance companies. Instead of having a unified electronic billing system in which a patient could simply swipe an A.T.M.-like card for automatic verification of eligibility, claims processing and payment, we have a complicated system with lots of expensive manual data entry that produces costly mistakes.
The Affordable Care Act requires the Department of Health and Human Services to develop operating standards for electronic eligibility determination and payment -- steps one and six -- in the next few years, but we need to go further. We need the standard operating rules to encompass authorizing tests and treatments, submitting claims, verifying where in the process a claim is and the real-time adjudication of denials. And we must accelerate the process, covering all steps by 2015. Finally, the government needs to require that all parties -- doctors, hospitals, insurers, government agencies -- use the electronic systems.
This platform of electronic eligibility, claims and payment would -- in addition to saving billions of dollars in paperwork -- facilitate anti-fraud measures like those used by credit card companies. It would ease the administrative burden on doctors, letting them do the work that really matters -- treating patients. Finally, it could improve care through built-in guidelines; if a doctor tried to schedule a stent implantation for a patient with stable heart disease, the system could tell him to try medication first; if he tried to order an M.R.I for a patient with normal back pain, it could tell him to prescribe physical therapy first.
There is nothing more infuriating than needless paperwork that wastes tens of billions of dollars. Banks, Fed Ex and scores of other businesses have eliminated paper bills and payments, and allow people to easily track transactions and packages online. It's not brain surgery. Health insurance billing can also be brought into the Internet era.
Next week, I'll write about broader, more systemic and bigger ways to save -- concierge medicine for chronically ill patients and the bundling of payments.
This is the third in a series of articles on the cost of health care.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RAMI NIEMI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); INSURANCE (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (89%); MEDICAL RECORDS (89%); MEDICARE (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); MEDICAID (72%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (67%); CONSERVATISM (65%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (50%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



576 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Defining 'Equal'

BYLINE: By JEFFREY ROSEN. 
Jeffrey Rosen is a law professor at George Washington University and a co-editor of ''Constitution 3.0: Freedom and Technological Change,'' which will be published later this month.

 BODY:
RIGHTS GONE WRONG
How Law Corrupts the Struggle for Equality
By Richard Thompson Ford
272 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $27
There's no more polarizing legal battle in America today than the one over the meaning of discrimination. On the left, many progressives insist that any policies and practices that disadvantage people on the basis of race, sex, age or disability should be illegal, and some have carried this principle to illogical extremes -- suing to block ladies' nights at singles bars, for example, or even to forbid Mother's Day. On the right, many conservatives insist that the Constitution is so colorblind that the government may never take race into account under any circumstances, and the Supreme Court under Chief Justice John Roberts has carried this principle to similarly illogical extremes -- claiming that policies designed to integrate public schools, for example, are impossible to distinguish from those designed to segregate them. 
In ''Rights Gone Wrong,'' Richard Thompson Ford, a law professor at Stanford, argues that both the progressive left and the colorblind right are guilty of the same error: defining discrimination too abstractly and condemning it too categorically, with similarly perverse results. According to Ford, the urge to condemn discrimination in all its forms -- a legacy of the civil rights movement -- has led people on the left and the right to reject ''reasonable, prudent and innocent distinctions.'' It has also led activists, judges and government officials to concentrate on eliminating even trivial forms of discrimination at the expense of more effective means to social justice, like expanding economic opportunities for the poor.
Ford does not offer an equivocal, cautious, middle-of-the-road critique of civil rights law. His book is sharp and surprising, and casts the discrimination debate in a clarifying new light. He begins by stating that liberals took a wrong turn in the years after Brown v. Board of Education, when, following the court's lead, they defined racial justice as the elimination of psychological indignities, like ''stigmatic injury, stereotypes and subjective emotional harm,'' rather than remaining ''focused on economic justice and the tangible evils of the American racial hierarchy.'' Today, he says, this emphasis on psychological injuries is reflected in age discrimination law, which forbids the use of age-based ''stereotypes'' in the workplace but has not ''significantly improved'' the prospects for older people in the hiring process; in sexual harassment law, which is puritanically preoccupied with rooting out sexual expression at work and online; and in disability law, which has been construed to give people with attention-deficit disorder extra time on employment tests without asking whether they're qualified to do the job. ''Let's face it,'' he writes. ''In many jobs a wandering mind isn't a superficial condition that somehow masks an employee's good performance; it's a flaw that makes for poor performance.''
In fact, Ford says, it's simplistic and wrongheaded to claim that very different social problems -- from the overrepresentation of black men in prisons to the fact that the lines for women's restrooms are longer than those for men's -- all involve bigotry that can be eradicated by making the bigots pay. He argues that age discrimination law and the elimination of mandatory retirement have become ''a perk for the privileged,'' benefiting relatively well-off older workers with jobs rather than the unemployed older workers who can't get hired in the first place. And he believes that old-style class action lawsuits are ill equipped to fight contemporary forms of sex discrimination. Ford criticizes the landmark sex discrimination suit against Wal-Mart in terms similar to those that the conservative justices on the Roberts court recently invoked when they blocked the suit by a 5-4 vote. ''The Wal-Mart plaintiffs came close to insisting that decentralization and subjective job criteria are inherently discriminatory,'' Ford writes. ''This was the weakest part of their case: these are legitimate and effective management styles. A company shouldn't be punished for adopting them, nor should we presume that they are a cloak for bias.''
But Ford, the author of ''The Race Card,'' doesn't bash only liberals; in the second half of the book, he is just as withering about the overconfident abstractions of the conservative justices. He criticizes Chief Justice Roberts for holding, in 2007, that the landmark precedent of Brown v. Board of Education, which banned school segregation, should be extended to prohibit policies designed to achieve integration. Roberts warned that judges shouldn't be too confident in their own ability ''to distinguish good from harmful . . . uses of racial criteria,'' but Ford maintains that Roberts is carried away by his own bloodless abstractions. ''Is it really so hard to tell the difference between defensible and pernicious uses of race?'' he asks. '' 'Racial classification' . . . is a lawyer's construction that covers a host of very different policies: de jure segregation and affirmative action, racial profiling by police and the use of race in the census.'' It's hardly obvious, Ford argues, that courts should treat all of these policies alike.
He is similarly critical of the conservative justices for their 2009 ruling in favor of the white New Haven firefighters who sued the city for discarding a job promotion exam after it failed to result in the promotion of any African-Americans. There was no clear evidence, Ford says, that the city board that rejected the exam was motivated by racial prejudice against the white firefighters or even by a desire to placate New Haven's black community, although allegations of racial favoritism were in the air. Instead, ''in order to reach the intuitively fair result in an idiosyncratic case with ambiguous facts, the court created an ill-considered new legal standard that threatens both equal opportunity and legitimate employer prerogatives.'' The legal standard the conservative justices invented, categorically condemning the city for making its employment decision ''because of race,'' Ford notes, was similar to the one that Rose Bird, the liberal former chief justice of California, invoked to outlaw ladies' day at the carwash, or that led to lawsuits challenging those long lines at women's rest/rooms. In short, treating all forms of discrimination as equally pernicious ''cuts off the nose to spite the face.''
Ford ends his stimulating polemic by arguing for a more ''nuanced'' approach to civil rights. He calls for the return of thoughtful, pragmatic judges who will take the time to distinguish justified from unjustified acts of discrimination, rejecting selfish or perverse claims of ''rights gone wrong'' while protecting people from truly invidious indignities. As Ford's book demonstrates, these kinds of nuanced judges are in short supply today: our judicial politics have become so polarized, and our activists so suspicious of judicial discretion, that both liberal and conservative judges have rushed to embrace legalistic abstractions about rights rather than making complicated, case-by-case determinations. If President Obama is defeated, the Supreme Court will swing even more sharply to the right on questions involving discrimination; if he is re-elected, the current polarization over civil rights seems likely to continue. But while Ford may be too optimistic in imagining a remedy for the excesses of civil rights law, his book is invaluable in diagnosing the disease. ''Like an overprescribed anti/biotic that kills beneficial micro-/organisms,'' he writes, ''the civil rights approach to social justice, once a miracle cure, now threatens to do more harm than good.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARK PERNICE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); LIBERALISM (79%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (79%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER (76%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (76%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (76%); AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (63%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



577 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 971 words

PERSON: Norton Dodge 

HEADLINE: Norton Dodge, 84, Dies; Stored Soviet Dissident Art

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Norton Dodge, a genially rumpled economics professor who in the course of research trips to study arcana like tractors and workforce demographics managed quietly to amass the world's largest collection of nonconformist Soviet art, died on Nov. 5 in Washington. He was 84.
The cause was multiple organ failure, his wife, Nancy, said. The couple had lived for many years at Cremona, a 978-acre estate in Mechanicsville, Md., whose 40-odd buildings long groaned with paintings, prints and other work made covertly from the 1950s to the 1980s. 
That trove now forms the core of the Norton and Nancy Dodge Collection of Nonconformist Art From the Soviet Union, part of the Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum of Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J.
For ''nonconformist'' read ''dissident,'' and for ''dissident'' read ''dangerous'': the term describes any art, including political, religious and Surrealist work, that did not hew to the narrow, state-sanctioned confines of Socialist Realism. During the Soviet era, the making of such art could result in the artist's being ostracized, exiled, imprisoned or worse.
The Dodge Collection, which opened to the public in 1995, now comprises about 20,000 works. Artists represented there include some who are well known in the West today, among them the conceptual artists Vitaly Komar and Alexander Melamid.
Professor Dodge and the underground artists whose work he helped save are the subjects of a book, ''The Ransom of Russian Art'' (1994), by John McPhee.
In his academic life, Professor Dodge was a scholar of Soviet economics who taught for many years at the University of Maryland. At his death he was emeritus professor of economics at St. Mary's College of Maryland.
Norton Townshend Dodge was born on June 15, 1927, in Oklahoma City; his father, Homer Levi Dodge, a physicist, was a dean of the graduate school at the University of Oklahoma in Norman.
As a boy, Norton displayed a passion for art. He also had an early curatorial bent, collecting, as he told The Weekend Australian newspaper in 1995, ''whiskey bottles from the trash cans of the leading residents of Norman.''
After studying at Deep Springs College in California, Norton Dodge earned a bachelor's degree in economics from Cornell, followed by a master's from Harvard in Russian regional studies. In the mid-1950s, while researching his Harvard doctoral dissertation, ''Trends in Labor Productivity in the Soviet Tractor Industry,'' he first visited the Soviet Union.
Professor Dodge received his doctorate in 1960, and soon afterward returned to the Soviet Union to study the role of women in the labor force. He had long known about the dissident writers who worked there in secret and began to wonder if there existed a comparable visual-art underground.
He made discreet inquiries. Before long he heard from someone who knew someone who knew someone else ... and little by little Professor Dodge found his way onto the clandestine circuit of dissident-art ''exhibitions'' held in artists' apartments.
He resolved to support these artists, and by a professor's standards he had ample means. Years before, he explained in interviews, his father had placed a family nest egg in the hands of a young investment adviser named Warren E. Buffett. The arrangement had paid off resoundingly, and Norton Dodge subsequently became a highly successful investor himself.
Ultimately, according to Mr. McPhee's book, Professor Dodge spent more than $3 million of his own money on Soviet underground art.
Over the next two decades, he made many trips to the Soviet Union, often under authentic cover of scholarly research. Each time, though, he discreetly forsook the library to navigate dark alleys and dimly lighted stairways, clutching a flashlight and slips of paper bearing little more than vague, scribbled addresses.
Getting the art out of the country was sometimes tortuous, sometimes remarkably straightforward, Nancy Dodge said in an interview on Thursday. Professor Dodge might roll small works inside Soviet propaganda posters. Larger works could be rolled inside carpets. He also depended on a carefully cultivated network of associates that included, he told Mr. McPhee, diplomats at non-United States embassies.
At one point, with the inscrutable logic that was a hallmark of the era, the Soviet government named an official dealer to handle the export of some of Professor Dodge's gingerly procured dissident art, and for a time it flowed tidily out of the country through official channels.
In 1977, Professor Dodge organized a show of the artwork in Washington, which brought his Soviet travels to an end.
''When I put that exhibit on I knew that my cover, so to speak, would be blown, because people from the Soviet embassy came and no doubt took note of everything,'' he told The Baltimore Sun in 1994. ''I could see they were zeroing in on me in a way, developing a fatter and fatter dossier.''
Though he chose not to return, his connections let him continue collecting from afar until the twilight of the Soviet Union.
Professor Dodge's first marriage ended in divorce. Besides his wife, Nancy Ruyle Dodge, whom he married in 1980, he is survived by a sister, Alice Dodge Wallace.
His books include ''Women in the Soviet Economy'' (1966) and ''From Gulag to Glasnost: Nonconformist Art in the Soviet Union'' (1995), which he edited with Alla Rosenfield.
Professor Dodge passed the post-Soviet years awash in many enthusiasms, including conservation (rivers, wetlands, woodlands) and accumulation (practically everything). Objects of desire included books, which besides filling nearly every cranny of Cremona also populated a smallish satellite ''library'' there.
The library had previously been Professor Dodge's Mercedes, which, on its demise, he left in its tracks and happily stocked with volumes on Soviet economics.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Norton Dodge, top left, in April. His collection, which includes Leonid Sokov's painted wooden glasses and Antanas Sutkus's ''Pioneer,'' is now at Rutgers University. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHARLES FICK
LEONID SOKOV
 ANTANAS SUTKUS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); ART COLLECTING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); PAINTING (77%); VISUAL ARTS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); WOMEN (73%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); WRITERS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%)

CATEGORY: Art

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



578 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Dirty Harry Meets Dirtier Edgar

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
I ASK Clint Eastwood, the star who defined macho in 20th-century movies, what it was like to direct a scene with two men kissing.
Especially when it's Leonardo DiCaprio and Armie Hammer playing a rule-bending and gender-bending version of J. Edgar Hoover and Clyde Tolson.
Stretching out his Giacometti legs in the Four Seasons bar, the rangy 81-year-old said he juiced up the action to make it a fistfight that suddenly turns erotic. Or as Eastwood circumspectly puts it, ''It becomes an expression, at least from one of the parties -- maybe both -- of borderline something else.''
A director who prides himself on his economy (one or two takes often suffice) and frugality, Eastwood said: ''It moved so fast, nobody had a chance to feel awkward. Afterward there were some jokes.'' 
I quote the Times film critic Manohla Dargis writing that ''the tenderness of the love story in 'J. Edgar' comes as a shock.''
He cocks his head and says with a gravelly murmur, ''Don't I seem like the tender type?'' before reassuring me, ''All this .44 Magnum stuff, it's just an act.''
Some F.B.I. agents who worked with Hoover have been grousing that portraying the feared first director of the F.B.I. as homosexual would ''turn Dirty Harry into Dirty Harriet,'' as William Branon, chairman of the J. Edgar Hoover Foundation, put it.
It's sorta meta: the star who played a fictional law enforcement officer breaking rules for what he sees as the good of society makes a movie about a real law enforcement officer breaking rules for what he sees as the good of society.
Dirty Harry came out looking cool, though. The dirt-collecting Hoover comes out looking creepy.
Eastwood signed on to direct the screenplay written by Dustin Lance Black, the 37-year-old star who scored an Oscar in 2009 for his screenplay for ''Milk'' and wrote the play ''8,'' gleaned from transcripts of California's Prop 8 trial and staged in New York in September with a starry cast.
''He's a nice kid,'' Eastwood says. ''I call him a kid because he's younger than me by about eight centuries.''
Black, who was shy and sometimes suicidal growing up gay on military bases and in Mormon culture, told me he wrote about Harvey Milk to ''inspire the younger generation to start becoming activists.'' In his Oscar acceptance speech, he exhorted young gays and lesbians ''who have been told that they are less than, by their churches or by the government or by their families, that you are beautiful, wonderful creatures of value.''
The collaboration between the dishy icon of gay swagger and the dashing icon of straight swagger is intriguing. Riffing on gay marriage with GQ, Eastwood said, ''Why not?''
He calls the tightly braided relationship between the No. 1 and No. 2 at the F.B.I. ''a deep friendship between men.'' Even if there was gay affection, he does not think it was consummated.
Black regards the relationship as a tragic love story. Even though he doesn't depict it in the film, he thinks the relationship was consummated.
''It's so funny because it's the generational divide,'' he says about himself and Eastwood, who remembers Hoover from newsreels in the 1930s and '40s. ''For a much older generation, gay is the act of having sex with someone of the same gender. But the post-sexual-revolution, post-Stonewall generation defines gay or lesbian as someone's nature. Who they are attracted to, who they connect with. It's something much deeper than just a sexual act. And when you define it like that, Hoover is a gay man.''
The biopic features several scenes of Hoover bumbling in hetero moments: taking Helen Gandy, who would become his lifelong secretary, to the Library of Congress on a first date to show off the card catalog system he helped organize; flustered as he refuses to dance with Ginger Rogers's mother at a New York cabaret; sparking a lovers' quarrel with Tolson when he talks about his dates with Dorothy Lamour and how ''it may be time for a Mrs. Hoover,'' a slot Tolson felt he was already filling splendidly, with tart gossip and shopping trips where he dandified Hoover.
''He would propose to these women on the first or second date, and it would always be a 'no,' '' Black said. ''A lot of the research I did was to go to gay men living in Washington, D.C., who are in their 80s and 90s now, and have them describe to me what the code was at that time. What you couldn't say, what you did to replace the hole in your heart where dating and love would have gone. If anything was consummated, it was not discussed because it was just too dangerous.''
He said he wanted every scene, including the ''love story'' ones, to be based on facts. Eastwood said he, too, read the screenwriter's research books to check accuracy and ''make sure there wasn't just one opinion.''
Black did extrapolate, though, about the pair who dressed alike, had all their meals together and enjoyed balmy trips to the Del Mar track in California (where they switched to matching white tropical suits and white fedoras).
The writer knew that Clyde and ''Speed'' -- the nickname Hoover got because he talked fast to correct a stutter and/or delivered groceries quickly as a boy -- had a glass-shattering fight in a Del Mar hotel room. Black conjures a tortured, bloody kiss at the end and Tolson's parting threat: ''If you ever mention a lady friend again, that will be the last day you share my company.''
There is no doubt that the monstrous mama's boy who ruled the bureau for 48 years was self-loathing: He intimidated those who insinuated he was gay; banned gays from the F.B.I.; used files about Eleanor Roosevelt's lady friends to manipulate F.D.R.; and spread false rumors that Adlai Stevenson was gay.
Even though Black found no evidence to corroborate a claim by a Mafia wife that Hoover was a cross-dresser, he did put in a Bates Motel scene: DiCaprio's Hoover puts on cascading beads and a lace-trim dress belonging to his late mother, the manipulative aspiring socialite who egged on his ambition and cruelly told him, ''I'd rather have a dead son than a daffodil for a son.''
Hoover grew up within sight of the Capitol and lived with his mother until she died when he was 40. He had an emergency F.B.I. phone installed in his childhood bedroom; he got the call about the Lindbergh kidnapping there.
He left everything to Tolson in his will; now the two are buried nearly within hand-holding distance of each other in the Congressional Cemetery.
Black believes that the Commie-hating, credit-hogging, image-inflating Hoover was a harbinger of our modern society -- sickeningly revolving around fame. ''If there's anyone who lives his life feeling like public adoration was the No. 1 goal,'' the writer says, ''it was J. Edgar Hoover.''
Eastwood says Hoover did some good. But when I asked if he was loco, the director replied, ''He definitely marched to a different drummer.''
Spending time here filming and showing a screening Tuesday at the Newseum did not awaken political yearnings in Eastwood, a libertarian/Republican who was once mayor of Carmel, Calif. Neither did news that in 1988, Poppy Bush's team kicked around the idea of having him as a running mate.
He said he'd never settle for No. 2 and he doesn't think he could have survived a national campaign.
Referring to the grumpy, prejudiced dinosaur he played in his last role, he grinned: ''In this p.c. era, I'd be the 'Gran Torino' president.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ISTVAN BANYAI) (SR11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (86%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (82%)

PERSON: CLINT EASTWOOD (90%); LEONARDO DICAPRIO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: J. Edgar (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



579 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: The Fever for Flat Taxes

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''The Problem With Flat Tax Fever'' (Economic View, Nov. 6), Robert H. Frank says that flat taxes have been embraced by most of the current Republican presidential candidates and that such taxes would increase inequalities by penalizing low- and middle-income groups while rewarding the wealthy few.
He sees that as a problem, but Republicans don't. The latter can pretend all they want that their objective is to simplify income taxes, but it's obvious that their real intent is precisely to favor the ultrarich. Though Mr. Frank points to research that greater income inequalities foster ''a range of social ills,'' does he really expect this to deter or embarrass Republicans, who could not care less about ordinary Americans? They worship the rich and powerful -- everyone else is dispensable. What Mr. Frank sees as a danger to society, Republicans see as an ideal objective. This is what makes them so scary. 
Roger Carasso
Los Angeles, Nov. 7
To the Editor:
Robert H. Frank makes the following statement: ''The contention that a flat tax would be simpler because it involves only a single rate is flatly wrong. The complexity of the current system has nothing to do with its multiple income brackets.''
Of course, he's absolutely correct. So why do flat tax proponents continue to imply the flat tax would be simpler? And, more important, why do they continue to get away with it?
I believe they are taking advantage of what we commonly call ''math phobia.'' While anyone with an eighth-grade education is quite able to compute his or her taxes, many people feel stumped when asked to reason about numbers and calculations. This feeling is encouraged by politicians (and, interestingly, local news anchors) who regularly claim -- only partly in jest -- that it requires a Ph.D. in mathematics to, say, compute our taxes (or do a host of other activities that require basic arithmetic).
We should expect the media to regularly challenge such misleading statements. And let's task our educational system to get us past our anxiety. If not, there will always be someone who is willing to take advantage of us. That is something to really be afraid of. Stephen Polit
Belmont, Mass., Nov. 7
Gates and the Early PC
To the Editor:
In ''What's Luck Got to Do With It?'' (Oct. 30), Jim Collins and Morten T. Hansen distort the history of the PC and paint a misleading picture of Gary Kildall, founder of Digital Research Inc. There is much to admire in Bill Gates, but it is not in his ''young company'' pioneering the system for I.B.M.'s PC.
Mr. Kildall, who died in 1994, invented the CP/M operating system in 1974, and it was the standard operating system for most PCs until the early 1980s. Millions of copies were sold; untold numbers were pirated. It is not true that CP/M as a system ''failed to impress I.B.M.'' I.B.M. was so impressed that it asked Mr. Gates if it could license CP/M from him -- not realizing that Microsoft had CP/M under license from Mr. Kildall. Honorably, Mr. Gates sent I.B.M. to see Mr. Kildall.
When I.B.M. and D.R.I. did not reach terms quickly, Mr. Gates went to Seattle Computer Products, which had copied the basic architecture of CP/M. The result was QDOS MS-DOS. I.B.M. marketed both Mr. Kildall's original system (at a high retail price) and an adaptation by S.C.P. (at a lower price). I researched this history extensively with access to Mr. Kildall's unpublished papers. Harold Evans
New York, Nov. 6
The writer is the author of ''They Made America'' (Little, Brown & Company, 2004).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MATHEMATICS (86%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%)

COMPANY: DIGITAL RESEARCH INC (60%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



580 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: Ideas for Cutting Military Spending

 BODY:
Readers respond to a former assistant secretary of defense's suggestions for Pentagon cuts.
The Letter
To the Editor:
Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta lays out excellent proposals for reducing the defense budget: reducing nuclear weapons, the number of troops in Europe, the size of the ground forces, health care costs for military retirees and the number of F-35 Joint Strike Fighters (''Panetta Weighs Pentagon Cuts Once Off Limits,'' front page, Nov. 7). But these proposals are not specific or comprehensive enough.
Since we are unlikely to use nuclear weapons, our arsenal can be slashed from the current level of 5,000 to 311, as recommended by some Air Force strategists. Since we are withdrawing troops from the Middle East and are unlikely to need large armies there anytime soon, the size of our ground forces can be cut back by 100,000 to pre-9/11 levels. Since the cold war ended 20 years ago, the 80,000 troops still in Europe can be reduced to 20,000. Since the military increasingly relies on unmanned planes and precision guided munitions, the number of carriers and Air Force fighters can be reduced by 25 percent. 
Finally, health care premiums for working-age military retirees can be doubled without breaking faith. In 1995, premiums were set at $460 a year for a family and never raised until a $60 increase this year.
Mr. Panetta grossly exaggerates when he says it would be disastrous if projected levels of defense spending are reduced by an additional $500 billion if the bipartisan ''supercommittee'' deadlocks and automatic cuts go into effect. Adding $500 billion to the $450 billion already being cut would mean total reductions of $950 billion over the next decade, or about 15 percent.
Since the defense budget has grown by more than 50 percent over the past 10 years, it can easily absorb a 15 percent reduction -- which would be about half the defense cuts of Presidents Eisenhower and Nixon and less than that of George H. W. Bush.
LAWRENCE J. KORB Washington, Nov. 8, 2011
The writer is a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, a liberal organization, and was an assistant secretary of defense in the Reagan administration from 1981 to 1985.
Readers React
Mr. Korb cites key areas of the defense budget that could be cut or eliminated, but he doesn't go far enough. National missile defense doesn't work, but it is one of the most expensive procurement items in the budget. Mr. Korb favors military personnel cuts in Europe, but what about Asia, where our long-range strike capabilities obviate the need for 80,000 troops?
There is no other navy that could challenge the United States Navy, so we could retire 50 ships and scrap current plans to build up to a fleet of more than 300. The Marines, who haven't conducted an amphibious assault for more than 60 years, don't need a new Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle and should scrap the troubled Osprey helicopter.
Earlier this year former Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said, ''A smaller military, no matter how superb, will be able to go fewer places and be able do fewer things.'' He meant that as a warning; actually, it is a blessing.
MELVIN A. GOODMAN Bethesda, Md., Nov. 10, 2011
The writer, a former C.I.A. analyst, is a senior fellow at the Center for International Policy and the author of the forthcoming ''The Threat of U.S. Militarism.''
The United States spends an immense amount of money on defense, as Mr. Korb notes -- far more than would be needed to respond to any conceivable threat. Unfortunately, the downside of any cut in defense spending is that spending equals jobs. This is one underlying reason for the near universal support for such spending in Congress.
Of course, that rule applies to all spending, not just defense, which suggests that the manic budget cutting engaged in by Tea Party supporters is certain to have serious negative unintended effects on the economy.
The challenge, which Mr. Korb ignores, is to come up with a smaller defense budget that does not make unemployment even worse. Perhaps less government spending will produce long-run economic benefits, but in the near term -- the only one that counts for politicians -- the outlook is not promising.
ROBERT A. MYERS New York, Nov. 10, 2011
What are safe cuts from military spending? In addition to Mr. Korb's recommendations I propose these measures, and estimated savings:
Don't build a new fleet of nuclear submarines. Savings: $125 billion.
Don't overhaul old nuclear weapons; go below 1,000 in total. Savings: $65 billion to $80 billion.
Reduce ballistic missile submarines and cut ICBMs to 300. Savings: $79 billion to $100 billion, according to Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma.
Cut bases not only in Europe but also in Japan, as recommended by Ambassador Thomas Graham Jr., former chief nuclear negotiator. But don't cut troops -- bring them home to American bases, boosting local economies, and train them for asymmetrical warfare.
Cut waste and redundancy. Senator Coburn has noted that the Government Accountability Office, the Defense Department's inspector general and others have identified about $50 billion in waste, abuse and fraud in the budget.
We can better use such funds to rebuild our schools and rehire laid-off teachers. A well-educated America is essential for our long-term competitiveness and national security.
EDWARD A. AGUILAR Philadelphia, Nov. 10, 2011
The writer is founding executive director and program coordinator of Project for Nuclear Awareness.
My disabled veteran husband and I realize that all of us have to tighten our belts during the economic crisis. And we don't mind doing that if it's done fairly.
What is most galling to us, though, is that the politicians and the Department of Defense would even consider any cuts to veteran benefits or increases in health insurance premiums before they demand full repayment by military contractors of the enormous amounts of money they defrauded the government -- really us taxpayers -- out of.
MARCIE BOROUGHS Vacaville, Calif., Nov. 10, 2011
Mr. Korb argues for decreases in military personnel and benefits. We do not need fewer people in the military, and we do a grave disservice to those who have put their lives on the line by reducing their benefits.
What we need are fewer high-tech and immensely high-cost assault weapons, aircraft, ships and other assault vehicles. Moreover, aggressive high-tech military research and development fuels destabilizing arms races.
Shifting our nation's research priorities back to basic science would increase economic activity toward more positive civic goals that do not depend on sustaining military conflicts. Better yet, refocusing the military's mission to developing methods of conflict abatement first, and forceful intervention last, would be far more productive and less expensive.
The military's budget should be dedicated toward reducing the likelihood of military conflict, with the ultimate goal of making military intervention rarely, if ever, necessary.
MICHAEL PEIRCE Boulder, Colo., Nov. 10, 2011
The writer taught philosophy, including topics in just-war theory, for 15 years at the University of Colorado.
The Writer Responds
Most of the respondents lay out additional reductions beyond what I suggest. These make sense and are implied in my letter and will be necessary to achieve the $1.2 trillion reduction in federal spending sought by the Congressional supercommittee.
Mr. Aguilar is correct that if we reduce nuclear weapons to 311, we can save money by not modernizing the submarine and bomber components of our nuclear arsenal.
I believe that, as Mr. Aguilar and Mr. Goodman suggest, troop levels in Asia should also be on the table.
Ms. Boroughs is correct that we should not cut veterans' benefits. But these are largely paid for by the Veterans Administration, not the Pentagon, and will not be affected by my proposed increase in health care premiums for working-age retirees.
I agree with Mr. Aguilar and Ms. Boroughs about eliminating waste and fraud, but that alone will not result in significant savings.
Finally, Mr. Myers is right that cuts in defense will cost jobs, but putting that money into other areas or even cutting taxes will create even more jobs.
LAWRENCE J. KORB Washington, Nov. 11, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAVIER JAEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY BENEFITS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); NAVIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); US CONGRESSIONAL SUPER COMMITTEE (73%); WRITERS (73%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (72%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (66%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (66%); LIBERALISM (60%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (52%)

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (89%); RICHARD NIXON (52%); GEORGE H W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



581 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: Paperback Row

BYLINE: By IHSAN TAYLOR

 BODY:
AND THE SHOW WENT ON: Cultural Life in Nazi-Occupied Paris, by Alan Riding (Vintage, $16.95.) Riding, a former European cultural correspondent for The New York Times, brings to life the Parisian cultural scene of the 1930s and '40s. Vivid character sketches (Camus, Sartre, Cocteau, Piaf) show both the resistance and collaborationist sides of the German occupation, as Riding explores the role of artists and writers in times of national trauma. 
DRIVING ON THE RIM, by Thomas McGuane (Vintage Contemporaries, $16.) At the center of McGuane's rambling novel is Berl Pickett, a sardonic Montana doctor facing public condemnation after he's implicated in the death of his former lover.
THE FIERY TRIAL: Abraham Lincoln and American Slavery, by Eric Foner (Norton, $18.95.) The winner of this year's Pulitzer Prize in history, ''The Fiery Trial'' traces the evolution of Lincoln's tangled attitudes toward race and slavery, from his early life through his presidency. ''More cogently than any previous historian, Foner examines the political events that shaped Lincoln and ultimately brought out his true greatness,'' David S. Reynolds wrote here.
CROWN OF DUST, by Mary Volmer (Soho, $14.) Disguised as a boy and on the run from her troubled past, the heroine of Volmer's first novel finds sanctuary among rough-and-/tumble prospectors in a California mining town. But word spreads quickly when gold is discovered, and outside opportunists threaten to tear the town apart.
ENCOUNTER, by Milan Kundera. Translated by Linda Asher (Harper Perennial, $13.99.) ''Up to what degree of distortion does an individual still remain himself?'' This question resonates throughout these essays by the Czech novelist Kundera, who celebrates artists -- novelists, poets, composers, painters -- in an era that, he argues, no longer values art or beauty.
THE NEW YORKER STORIES, by Ann Beattie (Scribner, $18.) In these 48 stories, published in The New Yorker from 1974 through 2006, Beattie became a defining voice as she chronicled and satirized her post-1960s generation. With an economy and effortless dialogue, she created what our reviewer, Judith Shulevitz, called ''Bruegel-like group portraits of an apparently grotesque age.'' ''The New Yorker Stories'' was named one of the Book Review's 10 Best Books of 2010.
THE FEAR: Robert Mugabe and the Martyrdom of Zimbabwe, by Peter Godwin (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $15.99.) Godwin's 1996 memoir, ''Mukiwa: A White Boy in Africa,'' was a coming-of-age story set in white-minority-ruled Rhodesia; its 2006 follow-up, ''When a Crocodile Eats the Sun,'' described life under Robert Mugabe's regime. ''The Fear'' documents the 2008 presidential election and its aftermath, when Mugabe unleashed ruling-party militias in a merciless campaign to cling to office.
THE FIFTH WITNESS, by Michael Connelly (Grand Central, $14.99.) Mickey Haller, a k a the Lincoln Lawyer, has fallen on hard times and turns to the booming field of real estate foreclosure defense. But he finds himself back in criminal court when a new client is accused of murdering the bank executive in charge of taking her house.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); WRITERS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%); POETRY (71%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (71%); SLAVERY (69%); HISTORY (68%); POLITICS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) ZIMBABWE (90%); GERMANY (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (77%); AFRICA (75%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



582 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2590 words

HEADLINE: Buying Underwear, Along With the Whole Store

BYLINE: By AMY CORTESE

 BODY:
SARANAC LAKE, N.Y.
THE residents of Saranac Lake, a picturesque town in the Adirondacks, are a hardy lot -- they have to be to withstand winter temperatures that can drop to 30 below zero. But since the local Ames department store went out of business in 2002 -- a victim of its corporate parent's bankruptcy -- residents have had to drive to Plattsburgh, 50 miles away, to buy basics like underwear or bed linens. And that was simply too much.
So when Wal-Mart Stores came knocking, some here welcomed it. Others felt that the company's plan to build a 120,000-square-foot supercenter would overwhelm their village, with its year-round population of 5,000, and put local merchants out of business.
It's a situation familiar to many communities these days. But rather than accept their fate, residents of Saranac Lake did something unusual: they decided to raise capital to open their own department store. Shares in the store, priced at $100 each, were marketed to local residents as a way to ''take control of our future and help our community,'' said Melinda Little, a Saranac Lake resident who has been involved in the effort from the start. ''The idea was, this is an investment in the community as well as the store.'' 
It took nearly five years -- the recession added to the challenge -- but the organizers reached their $500,000 goal last spring. By then, some 600 people had chipped in an average of $800 each. And so, on Oct. 29, as an early winter storm threatened the region, the Saranac Lake Community Store opened its doors to the public for the first time. By 9:30 in the morning, the store, in a former restaurant space on Main Street opposite the Hotel Saranac, was packed with shoppers, well-wishers and the curious.
The 4,000-square-foot space was not completely renovated -- a home goods section will be ready for the grand opening on Nov. 19 -- but shoppers seemed pleased with the mix of apparel, bedding and craft supplies for sale.
''Ooh, that's nice,'' said Pat Brown, as she held up a slim black skirt (price: $29.99). She and her husband, Bob, a former professor of sociology at a local community college, live in town in an early 1900s home furnished with deer heads and other mementos from Bob's hunting trips. The couple -- who were voted king and queen of the village's annual Winter Carnival in 1999 -- bought $2,000 worth of shares in the store early on, and later bought a few more during a fund-raising drive.
''It's been a long process for all of us. We're very proud to have it finally become a reality,'' Ms. Brown said. Her husband, a vigorous-looking man who had a neatly trimmed white beard and was wearing a cowboy hat, added, ''This is a small town trying to help itself.''
Think of it as the retail equivalent of the Green Bay Packers -- a department store owned by its customers that will not pick up and leave when a better opportunity comes along or a corporate parent takes on too much debt.
Community-owned stores are fairly common in Britain, and not unfamiliar in the American West, where remote towns with dwindling populations find it hard to attract or keep businesses. But such stores are almost unknown on the densely populated East Coast. The Saranac Lake Community Store is the first in New York State, its organizers say, and communities in states from Maine to Vermont are watching it closely.
Indeed, community ownership seems to resonate in these days of protest and unrest, when frustration with Wall Street, corporate America and a system seemingly rigged against the little guy is running high. But rather than simply grouse, some people are creating alternatives.
''It drives me crazy when people criticize how our system works, but they don't actually go out and try anything,'' says Ed Pitts, a lawyer from Syracuse who along with his wife, Meredith Leonard, is a frequent visitor to the area and has invested in the store. ''This is more authentic capitalism.''
SARANAC LAKE is known more for its natural beauty and clean air than for experimenting with new forms of commerce. Nine miles from the Olympic town of Lake Placid, it is surrounded by lakes and mountains. In the past, it drew summer residents including Albert Einstein and Theodore Roosevelt, as well as tuberculosis patients who came to the village to take ''the cure'' of fresh air. Today, many of the village's onetime ''cure cottages'' are filled with tourists who come in the summer months to hike, canoe and unwind, swelling the population threefold.
Come winter, though, the town's Main Street quiets down and local residents reclaim places like the Blue Moon Cafe, which dishes up food and gossip. So when the local Ames store closed, few major retailers were interested in taking its place, despite the town's efforts to woo them.
Wal-Mart was the exception. But its interest in building a supercenter larger than two football fields sharply divided villagers. Signs for and against Wal-Mart sprouted on front yards. At heated town meetings, people would shout: ''You can't buy underwear in Saranac Lake!''
In the end, Wal-Mart decided not to pursue the store; a spokesman said that ''no single factor'' contributed to the decision. But the tensions the debate stirred up only made the lack of shopping options more glaring.
That's when a group of residents exploring retail alternatives heard about the Powell Mercantile, a community-owned store in Powell, Wyo., that was born of a similar dilemma. The Merc, as it is known, was established in 2002 after the town's only department store, part of a chain called Stage, shut down.
''There was a great concern that Main Street would fail if we didn't have a store to replace the Stage,'' said Sharon Earhart, who was director of the Powell chamber of commerce at the time. Ms. Earhart and a few other residents raised more than $400,000 from local residents in three months by selling $500 shares, and opened the Merc.
The Merc prospered from the start, with fashion brands sharing space with rancher-appropriate Wranglers. When space in an adjacent storefront opened up, it expanded to 14,000 square feet. Now coming up on its 10th anniversary, the Merc does about $600,000 in annual sales and has turned a profit most years, even paying investors a $75 per share dividend in one particularly good year.
Powell's Main Street is now thriving, with a wide range of retail outlets. The store ''created a very positive domino effect,'' Ms. Earhart said, to the extent that it can be hard to find parking space.
When she came to speak at a town hall meeting in Saranac Lake in 2006, nearly 200 people showed up. Following the Powell model, the Saranac Lake organizers put together a business plan and assembled a volunteer board of directors made up of local professionals.
The board then approached a local lawyer, Charles Noth, who created a prospectus and filed it with New York State authorities. By limiting the offering to residents of New York, in what is called an intrastate offering, the organizers were able to avoid more complex and costly federal securities regulations. (The Powell Merc also raised money through an intrastate offering.)
''I had done a lot of investment proposals but nothing quite like this,'' said Mr. Noth, whose family has roots in the area and had recently moved here full time. ''The idea of a community store is pretty unique.'' He became an investor, as did his brother, the actor Chris Noth (best known for his role as Mr. Big in ''Sex and the City'').
''We didn't want it to be a cooperative or nonprofit,'' explained Alan Brown, a former banker and the board's treasurer (and no relation to Pat and Bob Brown). ''We wanted it to be just another business on Main Street.''
It was also important that it be widely owned, so the shares were priced at $100 and the amount any one person could buy was capped at $10,000. Shares can be bought and sold or willed to future generations. The store's projected near-term annual revenues of $350,000 to $400,000 will most likely be eaten up by operating expenses, said Melinda Little, the store's interim board president, but in the future, investors could receive dividends.
Getting the first $80,000 was easy, but the board found it hard to keep people's interest and raise new funds, especially as the recession hit. Board members organized fund-raisers to keep the project in front of people. One year, the board had a float in the Winter Carnival, featuring a clothesline with underwear hanging on it. The share offering will close in December.
Many residents, and even board members, were skeptical that the store would ever open. ''We had our dark hours,'' said Mr. Brown, the treasurer.
THOSE have been dispelled, for now. The first day, the store rang up $7,000 in receipts. Not surprisingly, underwear was a big seller.
''This is cool,'' said Diane Kelting, who was waiting in line to buy a gray poly-rayon cardigan ($36.99) and a ''hard to find'' bra. ''I have two young daughters and I can bring them in here now rather than shopping online,'' added Ms. Kelting, who is not an investor in the store.
Heidi Kretser, who also attended the opening and is an investor, said online shopping had drawbacks. ''Nowadays you don't even know if the reviews are genuine. If I can actually see it and feel it and talk to someone about it, it just makes for a nicer shopping experience.''
For Ms. Kretser, a coordinator with the Wildlife Conservation Society who grew up in the area, the store is about more than convenience: ''I've always loved the idea of thriving hamlets throughout the Adirondacks, and part of that is healthy downtowns.'' Like other residents, she would sometimes drive the 50 miles to shop at the big box stores in Plattsburgh, ''which could be Anywhere, America.''
Big boxes may offer a wide variety, she said, as her daughter Leena selected some pink yarn and buttons and her son Owen ran over clutching a knit animal hat. But ''the size is not compatible with communities like ours,'' she said. ''And money does not stay local.''
And profit? ''If we end up with a profit that's another perk, but we're in it for the community,'' Ms. Kretser said. The Saranac Lake Community Store and others like it reflect a growing shift among some communities to lessen their dependence on global businesses and invest their resources in homegrown enterprises that contribute to the welfare of the community. These efforts flow from studies showing that, dollar for dollar, locally owned companies contribute more to local economies than corporate chains. That is because more money stays local rather than leaking out to a distant headquarters.
In a recent analysis of nearly 3,000 rural and urban areas across the United States, a pair of Pennsylvania State University economists found that the areas with more small, locally owned businesses (with fewer than 100 employees) had greater per capita income growth over the period from 2000 to 2007, while the presence of larger, nonlocal firms depressed economic growth.
''There is definitely a trend towards community-rooted alternatives,'' said Stacy Mitchell, a senior researcher at the Institute for Local Self Reliance, a nonprofit research and educational organization. Citing the Occupy Wall Street protests and Move Your Money campaigns, she said, ''More people are interested in taking the economy back.''
Cooperatives -- nonprofit businesses like food stores and credit unions owned by and run on behalf of their members -- are one common manifestation of the trend. In a co-op, each member gets one vote, and excess revenue not reinvested in the business is distributed among members either as rebates or, in the case of credit unions, lower fees and better interest rates. In the United States, a University of Wisconsin study estimated, there are more than 29,000 co-ops generating $654 billion in revenue, and the number is growing.
Community-owned stores are not as well known and are structured as profit-making corporations, but the aim is the same: to keep ownership and control in the community, and to share the prosperity.
The Saranac Lake Community Store is a C corporation, the typical big business form, but the resemblance ends there. If and when there are profits that are not plowed back into the store, they will be distributed to investors -- many of whom are also the store's customers. The store's three employees are paid a modest salary, but one that is above average for the area, and receive health benefits and paid sick days. ''That was very important to us,'' said Ms. Little, the board president.
THE store's planners sought advice from residents and merchants to determine what was most needed -- an effort that continues. Under the title ''product offering suggestions,'' on a notebook placed near the store's checkout counter, shoppers had scrawled ''larger hats and gloves,'' ''watchbands'' and ''women's flannel-lined jeans.''
The planners also tried to avoid competing directly against local merchants, who mainly line half a dozen blocks along Main Street and Broadway. For example, the store offers a limited shoe line, since there are shoe stores in town, and sticks to brands like Minnetonka moccasins, once made in nearby Malone and not carried elsewhere in town. The strategy appears to have won over local merchants. The Coakley Ace hardware down the street offered the store discounted paint and supplies, while the nearby Rice Furniture provided carpet at cost.
''I'm of the belief that if you have more offerings in the community, more people will view it as a place to shop,'' said Pete Wilson, owner of Major Plowshares, an Army-Navy store in town. ''It's giving people more reason to stay downtown, and that should benefit other retailers.'' He bought a share, along with one for each of his two daughters.
But community stores are not for everyone. Even with the backing of a local bank and economic development corporation, organizers of a proposed community store in Greenfield, Mass., returned $60,000 to investors this year after concluding that it would be difficult to raise the remaining money needed.
And there is no denying the challenges of competing with mega-retailers whose scale and clout give them enormous cost advantages. Craig Waters, Saranac Lake Community Store's general manager, has had to be creative, stocking American-made products as much as possible and paying reduced prices for merchandise that has not sold at brand-name stores. Mr. Waters, who lives in Lake Placid, also relies on longstanding connections with suppliers. He worked for decades as a buyer and manager for May Department Stores, which merged with Federated Department Stores, now Macy's Inc., in 2005.
The prices appeared reasonable. Brightly colored rubber rain boots for children were $16.99; women's all-cotton sleep pants and tank top (in a moose print) were $19.99 and $12.99. A waffle-knit, fleece-lined men's hoodie was $59.99.
The Saranac Lake store is off to a strong start, although the trick will be to keep people coming back after the holiday season -- and the novelty -- have worn off. ''We had a lot of people saying it wouldn't work -- and it might not,'' said Mr. Wilson, the owner of Major Plowshares. But its existence could set an example for other disenfranchised communities and perhaps prompt shoppers and residents to think about where their dollars go.
''Most people are coming in to pick up some thread or clothing. They're not coming in to get a political lesson,'' said Mr. Pitts, the Syracuse lawyer. ''But it's nice to have a place that you can point to as an alternative.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: People gathered outside the Community Store in Saranac Lake, N.Y., on its opening day in late October. The department store occupies a space on Main Street where a restaurant once stood.(BU1)
On Oct. 29, opening day of the Saranac Lake Community Store, Betsy Pond, top, browsed the dungaree selection and Stephanie DeJoseph, above left, talked with a customer. The store, financed by sales of shares in Saranac Lake and elsewhere in New York State, was created to give residents an alternative to long drives and big chain stores.
 Bob and Pat Brown are investors in the Community Store and were there on opening day. ''This is a small town trying to help itself,'' Mr. Brown said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HEATHER AINSWORTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); RESTAURANTS (72%); FUNDRAISING (72%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (68%); SOCIOLOGY (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (57%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



583 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ONE-PAGE MAGAZINE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Is There Life on Mars?

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF, JACOB GOLDSTEIN, MAUD NEWTON, ADAM LEFF, RICHARD RUSHFIELD, MATT BAI, ERIC SPITZNAGEL, TOM VANDERBILT, TYLER COWEN, LIZZIE SKURNICK, REV. AL SHARPTON and RACHEL NOLAN

 BODY:
THE BIG PROFILE
By Dave Itzkoff
How do you pick Jane Levy out in the Ritz-Carlton lobby? She's the 21-year-old who plays the New York transplant on the ABC comedy ''Suburgatory.'' Also, she's the redhead -- the result of a failed effort to de-brunet herself after a turn on ''Shameless.'' ''I tried to get it back to blond,'' Levy recalls, ''and it turned red. I went on my 'Suburgatory' audition. They were like: 'We love it red.' ''
The Mars Curiosity Rover, a Mini Cooper-size nuclear-powered vehicle that will launch on Nov. 25, doesn't aim to answer David Bowie's burning question, exactly. The chief scientist John Grotzinger says the $2.5 billion mission seeks ''insight into the evolution of Mars'' through a Calvin and Hobbes-esque neutron-shooting hydrogen detector and X-ray beam. Where's the Transmogrifier? ''We'll have to leave that up to the next generation of engineers,'' says Joy Crisp, a scientist. 
THE MONEY COLUMN
By Jacob Goldstein
Considering that two New York City taxi medallions recently sold for $1 million each, an all-time high, some fear we are currently experiencing a medallion bubble. After all, low interest rates make it cheaper to buy a medallion with borrowed money, and prices have doubled in the past five years. At the going rate, the total value of all medallions is more than $10 billion -- more than the market capitalization of several large U.S. airlines. But not everyone sees them as overvalued assets. ''These are mini cash cows running around the city,'' says Andrew Murstein, president of Medallion Financial, a publicly traded company that finances medallion investors. ''It's something that at least for the next hundred years is a great investment.''
THE HISTORICAL RECORD
By Maud Newton
For some fans of Antoni Gaudi, the towers going up at the World Trade Center site are a sad reminder of what might have been. The Catalan architect may be best known for Barcelona's Sagrada Familia, a neo-gothic cathedral that looks as if it's melting, but in 1908 he designed a pearlescent, glass-studded spaceship of a hotel, which would at that time have been the world's tallest building, for the site that is now ground zero. Although it's unclear whether construction of such a skyscraper was feasible then, Hotel Attraction was intended to rise almost as high as the Empire State Building would 23 years later. In 2003, Spanish artists advocated building it as a 9/11 memorial and a ''present from Barcelona, like the Statue of Liberty.'' An American architect, Paul Laffoley, joined the campaign, saying the hotel could become the New York symbol Gaudi intended.
EQUIVALENCY METER
By Adam Leff and Richard Rushfield
Ron Paul : Mitt Romney as ''Ice Road Truckers'' : ''Desperate Housewives'' as Lykke Li : Ke$ha as Wheatgrass juice : Paula Deen as snow pants : jeggings
WASHINGTON MONUMENTS
By Matt Bai
During tumultuous historical moments, it's useful to think about presidential candidates as being either reflectors or channelers. Reflectors -- a Pat Buchanan, say, or a Howard Dean -- satisfy the electorate's fury by reflecting it back. Channelers, like Ronald Reagan (or Barack Obama), harness that fury behind an agenda that feels constructive. The good news for Republicans fearing an intraparty meltdown: Reflectors never win. The bad news: There isn't a channeler in the bunch.
WHAT THE KIDS ARE DOING THESE DAYS
By Eric Spitznagel
Bearded men are as common in Brooklyn as out-of-work actors in Los Angeles. And some will fight for bragging rights at the N.Y.C. Beard and Mustache Competition, on Dec. 3. It's part of a beard-contest circuit that extends as far as Trondheim, Norway, host of the World Beard and Moustache Championships. Phil Olsen, captain of Beard Team USA, a real organization, has noticed a rise in hirsute competitors. ''Fewer men want to look like women,'' he says.
WHAT WE THINK
By Tom Vanderbilt
''Why lie? I need a drink.'' This panhandler request, so distinct from more worthy entreaties, actually works. In a 1994 study, researchers identified the so-called pique technique, which proved that people's standard ''refusal script'' is disrupted by an odd request. It is part of an unofficial field of panhandler studies. Broadly speaking, women are accosted more often than men. Tourists also are particularly good marks, because they are psychologically inclined to spend their money.
REALLY SHORT REVIEWS
By Tyler Cowen
''Engineering the Financial Crisis,'' by Jeffrey Friedman and Wladimir Kraus. Blames Basel capital agreements and mark-to-market accounting; readable.
''The Greenhouse,'' by Audur Ava Olafsdottir. Excellent introduction to Icelandic fiction; funny.
homeschooling.penelopetrunk.comProof that homeschooling often works.
THAT SHOULD BE A WORD
By Lizzie Skurnick
Clo-gin, n.
1. One who blocks an entrance or exit while checking a smartphone. ''A crowd of clogins at the 72nd Street station made Anna miss her train.'' See also: mailingerers (those who pretend to have messages); e-ander (to walk slowly while checking one's messages); sentropy (the tendency to come to a stop to see if a message has been sent).
HOW TO GIVE A SPEECH
By the Rev. Al Sharpton
A speaker has to determine what he is trying to do and what is the setting. You give speeches for different reasons, and you've gotta know going in: Am I going in there to inform and inspire or am I going in there to entertain and impress? Then lock down two or three outlined points to inform them or razzle-dazzle them. -- As told to Spencer Bailey
PHOTO ESSAY: UNLIKELY BROWN ATTENDEES
By Rachel Nolan
Ted TurnerBazillionaire, lothario
Bobby JindalGovernor of Louisiana
Chuck ColsonWatergate bad guy
RICHARD HOLBROOKEAMBASSADOR, MAN'S MAN
AND WON
John Seely Brown Developer of spell-check
Brian MoynihanC.E.O., Bank of America

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN M. HELLER/GETTY. WASHINGTON
CITYFILES
BILL PUGLIANO/GETTY
ALEX WONG/GETTY
JEMAL COUNTESS/GETTY
ANTONI GAUDI AND JUAN MATAMALA
PAUL ZIMMERMAN/WIREIMAGE
ALEX OGLE/GETTY
SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS
MARK J. TERRILL/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 PIERRE VERDY/GETTY.) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY MR. BINGO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (74%); LOBBYING (73%); SPACECRAFT (69%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (68%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (65%); HISTORY (64%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

COMPANY: MEDALLION FINANCIAL CORP (53%)

TICKER: TAXI (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (53%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (53%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (53%); SIC6153 SHORT-TERM BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS EX. AGRICULTURAL (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



584 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Who Is Occupy Wall Street?

BYLINE: By ARTHUR S. BRISBANE

 BODY:
OCCUPY WALL STREET has proved to be a difficult, sprawling story to report. Almost immediately after protesters began arriving at Zuccotti Park in downtown New York on Sept. 17, Times readers weighed in with concerns about the coverage.
Too little, some said, and soon added: too late. Condescending, said others, as Times writers delivered analytical columns and articles questioning the protests' absence of demands, of leaders, of a clear path ahead. Other readers pronounced a different line: The Times was giving too much and too favorable treatment to hodgepodge encampments that were disrupting New York and the other cities in the United States and abroad where the protests had spread.
Now, almost two months into the protest, it's time to ask: How should The Times report on the movement going forward? How can The Times get a handle on the big issues, while at the same time keeping an eye on ground-level developments in the Occupy camps? Here's a menu of suggestions; some are my own ideas, and others were culled from views I solicited from readers and journalists. 
First and foremost, The Times needs to find the structure emerging from the seemingly formless mass of a movement that pointedly eschews leadership and formal demands. That may sound obvious to some, but there is a strong, sometimes well-argued view that journalists should not impose a traditional framework on this nontraditional phenomenon.
''Reporters and pundits insist on analyzing and judging the movement according to structures of power they are familiar with,'' Caely French, a reader in San Francisco, commented in response to my blog post on nytimes.com. ''The movement's lack of designated leaders or demands is treated as idiosyncrasy, obstructionism, immaturity, or a reason to dismiss it entirely.''
She added, ''But the refusal to conform to conventional power structures is not just a procedural oddity -- it constitutes an essential aspect of the protesters' message.''
This may be true, but that shouldn't prevent The Times from developing a template that can help explain Occupy Wall Street to readers. That should start, I would argue, with its origins.
The Times has mentioned several times on blogs that Adbusters, a Canadian magazine, first proposed Occupy Wall Street and even set the date. Yet this intriguing nugget of information remains to be developed. Who is Adbusters? How did the idea leap the chasm between conception and action?
An investigation into origins would lead to the identities of early leaders, at least, and the search for the broader leadership of the movement should continue from there. I polled a group of journalism educators on the question of how The Times should direct its coverage henceforth. Not all agreed on this, but most said it was important to understand who the leaders were and what demographics they represented. The point is: Who is Occupy Wall Street?
''Leadership tells you a lot about a movement,'' Jerry Ceppos, journalism dean at Louisiana State University and formerly executive editor of The San Jose Mercury News, wrote in an e-mail. ''But I can't cite the name of a single Occupy Wall Street leader. I know some members say the groups are 'leaderless.' But I have trouble believing this is an entirely organic movement that grew without a leader. I'd push hard to see if there are leaders and to profile them.''
The push to establish origins and leadership would help surface the demands, or at least the most important underlying issues. Some of these are already clear, as the movement's rhetoric returns often to income inequality, unemployment and the high cost of education. In its future coverage, The Times should examine how these issues are changing America, giving rise to movements like Occupy Wall Street and its ideological counterpart, the Tea Party.
The impact the protests are having must be an important focus for upcoming coverage as well. While some say that a movement without demands can't have an impact, I find credibility in a counterargument made by Peter B. Meyer, a reader in New Hope, Pa.
''Inequality is one thing the Occupiers are all angry about -- and the issue clearly resonates with many others, since there is substantial national support for the OWS movement according to recent surveys,'' Dr. Meyer, who is president and chief economist of E. P. Systems Group, wrote in an e-mail. ''Given that the movement has not made demands, per se, its focus on inequality is a) increasing discussion of the topic about which most of the population has been ignorant, and b) attracting support from others, who the movement is apparently successfully arousing over its key topic of concern.''
Origins, leadership, issues and impact are basics for future coverage. Historical parallels represent something beyond the basics and, if well reported, would help readers place Occupy Wall Street in better perspective.
Catherine Jones of Berkeley, Calif., suggested that The Times delve deeply into the historical backdrops of Occupy protest sites in locations -- like the Bay Area and Boston -- that previously have served as ''historic incubators of movements for civil liberties, workers rights, racial justice, etc.''
She added, ''In-depth reporting on the demographics, history and politics of particular cities/metropolitan areas might shed light on the sources and meaning of the Occupy movement.''
While The Times seeks out a macro view of the issues and context, it should also find a creative way to capture the micro view. Publishing a daily blog about life at an Occupy camp is one good idea, suggested by Tom Fiedler, journalism dean at Boston University and former Miami Herald executive editor. Another good suggestion -- in a blog post by Emily Bell, a former digital editor at The Guardian in Britain who now teaches digital journalism at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism -- called for a Times ''air traffic controller,'' someone like NPR's Andy Carvin, who could use social media to aggregate Occupy developments worldwide every day.
I asked Jill Abramson, executive editor of The Times, about her plans. She promised that The Times is now digging into the origins story and considering how to capture the demographics of the movement. Further, she said, The Times's various desks are ''proceeding on multiple fronts with stories that get at the heart of the issues that OWS brings up -- income inequality, the lingering effects of the financial crisis and economic stagnation, the seemingly bottomless fall in home values.''
She called Occupy Wall Street ''an important story right now, along with the presidential election and world events, which are intimately connected to the global financial crisis.''
To do all this, and remember to capture the strong dissenting perspective of those who view Occupy Wall Street dimly, is the challenge that lies ahead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



585 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
NASA AND RUSSIA BEGIN
NEW CHAPTER IN SPACE
A Russian Soyuz rocket with three astronauts -- two Russians, one American -- is set to lift off from Kazakhstan, ferrying the men to the International Space Station. The flight of a Russian spacecraft with an American astronaut opens a new chapter for NASA, which is turning to foreign governments and commercial enterprises for space transportation. Page 6
STUDY CLEARS CHINESE DAM 
A study has found that the Three Gorges Dam, the world's largest hydropower project, has not contributed to climate change, according to a report by Xinhua, the Chinese state news agency. The study found that the dam's environmental impact was limited to a 12-mile radius. Page 8
RAMPAGE IN KAZAKHSTAN
An attacker described by officials as a jihadist went on a shooting rampage in southern Kazakhstan, killing at least seven people and blowing himself up, Kazakh authorities said. PAGE 14
DEADLY EXPLOSION IN IRAN
An explosion at an Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ammunition depot near Tehran killed at least 17 soldiers, according to Iranian officials who characterized the blast as an accident. Page 14
National
FOR EX-LOBBYIST ABRAMOFF,
AN EFFORT AT REDEMPTION
At 53, Jack Abramoff is pursuing a comeback he started planning even before going off to prison for crimes including corrupting members of Congress. Mr. Abramoff's tell-all memoir, ''Capitol Punishment,'' was released this month. PAGE 16
YOUNG FARMERS' OBSTACLES
Data from the Agriculture Department shows that only 22 percent of beginning farmers turn a profit their first year, forcing 73 percent of young farmers to work away from the farm to support themselves. Page 25
Metropolitan
AS SCHOOLS SACRIFICE,
FILMMAKERS FLOURISH
At a moment when parents are expected to provide their children's schools with basic supplies, it seems absurd to protect tax breaks for the film industry in New York. Big City. Page 1
Obituaries
NORTON DODGE, 84
He was an economics professor who in the course of research trips managed quietly to amass the world's largest collection of nonconformist Soviet art. Page 28
Sports
COLLEGE PLAYER'S NIGHTMARE
ENDS A BASEBALL DREAM
Jared Williams, once a promising baseball player for Wagner College, had his career derailed by an assault charge six years ago. But criminal charges brought against the arresting officer, including fraud, extortion and assault, have brought new information to light and cleared Williams of any wrongdoing. Page 1
DECIDING FACEOFF FOR RIVALS
The winner of this weekend's game between the Jets and the Patriots is poised to seize control of the A.F.C. East, which New England has ruled for seven of the last eight seasons. The Jets have long wanted what the Patriots had, but capturing the division title would transform their image from conquered to conqueror, writes Ben Shpigel. Page 1
Sunday Business
TOWN IN NEW YORK CREATES
ITS OWN DEPARTMENT STORE
When Wal-Mart planned to build a 120,000-square-foot supercenter in the small town of Saranac Lake, N.Y., some residents who felt that the company would overwhelm their village decided to raise capital to open their own department store. Page 1
Automobiles
FOR NEW CAR BUYERS,
TEST DRIVES ARE SO 1995
In a time when consumers buy televisions online without ever seeing them, car buyers have begun to skip the test drive. Page 1
Book Review
THE MAN WHO SHAPED
AMERICAN FOREIGN POLICY
In ''George F. Kennan: An American Life,'' John Lewis Gaddis has brought life to the pivotal decades of the mid-20th century with a book about the man who was essential in shaping foreign policy. Review by Henry A. Kissinger. Page 1
Arts & Leisure
A NEW MARK ON THE MAP
FOR ART IN CALIFORNIA
The colossus of exhibitions across Los Angeles that make up ''Pacific Standard Time: Art in L.A. 1945-1980,'' divides our knowledge of post-war art in America. Page 1
Magazine
THE RISING PRICE
OF AN ISRAELI LIFE
Understanding the exchange of Gilad Shalit, a single Israeli prisoner, for 1,027 Palestinians. Page 34
Style
PROWLING THE INTERNET
FOR THE DATA OF ATTRACTION
There are millions of Americans seeking love on the Internet. Little do they know that teams of scientists are eagerly watching them trying to find it. These scholars have gathered data from dating sites like Match.com, OkCupid and Yahoo! Personals to study attraction, trust, deception -- even the role of race and politics in prospective romance. Page 1
Sunday Review
UNCOVERING THE FOCUS
OF TODAY'S YOUTH CULTURE
Previous youth cultures -- beatniks, hippies, punks, slackers -- could be characterized by two related things: the emotion or affect they valorized and the social form they envisioned. Today's ideal social form is not the commune or the movement or even the individual creator as such. It's the small business, writes William Deresiewicz. Page 1
Editorial
THE TANGLED JUNGLE
OF CAMPAIGN FINANCE
Super PACs for individual candidates violate the law, but the practice is growing. The Justice Department should pursue criminal complaints. Sunday Review, Page 10
BRADY'S MANDATE
The Supreme Court should strengthen prosecutors' duty to disclose evidence to defendants. It is central to fundamental fairness in criminal cases. Sunday Review, Page 10
Op-Ed
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
Can an iPad-like tablet help lift India's poor to a better life? Sunday Review, Page 11
MAUREEN DOWD
Clint Eastwood and Dustin Lance Black talk about their take on J. Edgar Hoover. Sunday Review, Page 11
ROSS DOUTHAT
It was precisely because Joe Paterno had done so much good for so long that he could do the unthinkable. Sunday Review, Page 12
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
Thanks to heroes like Somaly Mam, the global movement against human trafficking is making progress. Sunday Review, Page 11

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (83%); SPACECRAFT (78%); SPACE STATIONS (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (77%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); LOBBYING (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (76%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (75%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (74%); SHOOTINGS (74%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); CLIMATE CHANGE (70%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (70%); CORRUPTION (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%); CHILDREN (68%); FILM (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); ATHLETES (65%); BASEBALL (65%); EXTORTION (65%); ARRESTS (65%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); RELIGION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) KAZAKHSTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAN (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



586 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: Combined Print & E-Book Nonfiction: Sunday, November 13th 2011

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the November 13, 2011 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending October 29, 2011. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: Combined Print & E-Book NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList11STEVE JOBS, by Walter Isaacson. (Simon &#38; Schuster) A biography of the recently deceased entrepreneur, based on 40 interviews with Jobs conducted over two years. 215KILLING LINCOLN, by Bill O&#39;Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Holt) The anchor of &#8220;The O&#8217;Reilly Factor&#8221; recounts the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. 3240HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson) A father recounts his 3-year-old son&#8217;s encounter with Jesus and the angels during an appendectomy. 41THINKING, FAST AND SLOW, by Daniel Kahneman. (Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux) The winner of the Nobel in economic science discusses how we make choices in business and personal life and when we can and cannot trust our intuitions. 534BOOMERANG, by Michael Lewis. (W. W. Norton &#38; Company) A look at some of the places hardest hit by the financial collapse of 2008, and at how it happened. 6440UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House Publishing) An Olympic runner&#8217;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II. 792THE END OF NORMAL, by Stephanie Madoff Mack. (Penguin Group) A memoir from the widow of Bernard L. Madoff&#8217;s son Mark, who committed suicide after helping to turn his father in to the authorities. 854SERIOUSLY ... I&#39;M KIDDING, by Ellen DeGeneres. (Grand Central Publishing) A collection of humor pieces from the stand-up comedian and talk-show host. 91THREE AND OUT, by John U. Bacon. (Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux) An account of Rich Rodriguez&#8217;s experiences as the coach of the University of Michigan Wolverines. 10740THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS, by Rebecca Skloot. (Crown) The story of a woman whose cancer cells were extensively cultured without her permission in 1951. 111025IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown) This portrait of Berlin during the rise of the Nazis centers on the family of William E. Dodd, the U.S. ambassador there. 121116A STOLEN LIFE, by Jaycee Dugard. (Simon &#38; Schuster) A woman tells of being kidnapped at the age of 11 and held prisoner for 18 years by a convicted rapist and his wife. 1387MONEYBALL, by Michael Lewis. (W. W. Norton &#38; Company) How Billy Beane, the general manager of the Oakland Athletics, has produced successful teams despite having one of the smallest payrolls in baseball. 143THIS IS HERMAN CAIN!, by Herman Cain. (Threshold Editions) The life and views of the Republican presidential candidate and former C.E.O. of Godfather&#8217;s Pizza. 15128THAT USED TO BE US, by Thomas L. Friedman and Michael Mandelbaum. (Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux) How America fell behind in the world it invented, and how it can come back.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
16. I, STEVE, edited by George Beahm. (Agate Publishing)
17. WEST BY WEST, by Jerry West and Jonathan Coleman. (Little, Brown &#38; Company)
18. SUICIDE OF A SUPERPOWER, by Patrick J. Buchanan. (St. Martin&#39;s Press)
19. OUTLIERS, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown &#38; Company)
20. BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Little, Brown &#38; Company)
21. JACQUELINE KENNEDY: HISTORIC CONVERSATIONS ON LIFE WITH JOHN F. KENNEDY, . (Hyperion)
22. SYBIL EXPOSED, by Debbie Nathan. (Free Press)
23. CLEOPATRA, by Stacy Schiff. (Little, Brown &#38; Company)
24. DESTINY OF THE REPUBLIC, by Candice Millard. (Knopf Doubleday Publishing)
25. JERUSALEM, by Simon Sebag Montefiore. (Knopf Doubleday Publishing)
26. VAN GOGH, by Steven Naifeh and Gregory White Smith. (Random House Publishing)
27. THE ZOMBIE SURVIVAL GUIDE, by Max Brooks. (Crown)
28. AUSCHWITZ, by Miklos Nyiszli. (Skyhorse)
29. THE BIG SHORT, by Michael Lewis. (W. W. Norton &#38; Company)
30. ---------- FINISH FIRST, by Tucker Max. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
31. THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
32. THE PRICE OF CIVILIZATION, by Jeffrey D. Sachs. (Random House Publishing)
33. RIN TIN TIN, by Susan Orlean. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
34. THE BOY WHO CAME BACK FROM HEAVEN, by Kevin Malarkey and Alex Malarkey. (Tyndale House)
35. THE BOOK OF MAN, by William J. Bennett. (Thomas Nelson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BOOK SALES (78%); RETAILERS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (65%); AWARDS & PRIZES (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); RUNNING (61%); SUICIDE (50%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

COMPANY: RANDOM HOUSE PUBLISHING GROUP LTD (52%); GRAND CENTRAL PUBLISHING (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: ELLEN DEGENERES (50%); BERNARD MADOFF (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011



587 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 4616 words

HEADLINE: 'I Still Don't Plan On Going to Any Political-Correctness School'

BYLINE: By T. A. FRANK

 BODY:
As a math major, Herman Cain undoubtedly knew from the start that running for president, if you're already rich and your main interest is in enhancing your revenue stream, makes no sense as a career move. Or, to cite the erstwhile presidential contender Mike Huckabee, ''Running for president is like sticking your face in the blade of a fan.''
In October, Cain had to undo damage from the following: a suggestion to put up an electrified fence on the Mexican border, statements endorsing a woman's right to choose, an apparent unfamiliarity with the terms ''right of return'' and ''neoconservative,'' a tentative thumbs-up to negotiating with Al Qaeda for prisoners and news stories of a completely mismanaged campaign.
That was before things got tough. Now allegations of sexual harassment have drowned out pretty much anything else related to Herman Cain. And if that's in any way a blessing, it's only because it diverted attention from what may have been some serious violations of campaign-finance laws. 
Would inserting one's face into the whirring blades of a fan not, for most of us, be pleasanter?
But if you think the end of the Cain campaign is at hand, remember this: The end of the Cain campaign has been at hand for months. And yet the end doesn't arrive. In fact, inspired by Cain's example of thrusting face exuberantly into fan, I'll offer my own face: the end isn't about to arrive now either. I believe that Cain will weather this latest storm. He will suffer embarrassment. People will cringe at what emerges. And he will continue to poll far better than reason should allow.
Still, let's say I'm wrong. Let's say that by the time you read this, we've learned about some escapade at a Sizzler in Nebraska that was so appalling that Cain has no choice but to bow out. Even so, Herman Cain's ability to sit atop the Republican field for as long as he has would require serious study. Whoever wants to enchant America's conservative base as well as independents looking for a steady hand amid economic upheaval must try to grasp what has carried Cain this far -- what not only shields him from spectacular attempts at self-immolation but also, with each incident, seems to make him stronger. Why, with this candidate, do the laws of physics seem not to apply?
My first on-the-ground encounter with the campaign of Herman Cain took place at Roane State Community College in Harriman, Tenn. Nothing near the campus, a wan collection of brutalist concrete structures with corners that don't appear to be joined together quite right, even resembles a town. Nevertheless, interest in Herman Cain had grown so fast that organizers were forced to move the event to a lawn outside so that everyone could see the candidate. The crowd was predominantly white, and more than half appeared to be over 50. Some held Cain 2012 signs. Event organizers wore shirts that said ''Tea'd.''
It was 12:30, and Cain was scheduled to speak at noon. Eventually, a large red, white and blue bus -- decorated on the side with an enormous Herman Cain face -- lurched into the nearby parking lot and came to a halt. The crowd applauded loudly and started to chant: ''Herman! Herman! Herman!'' But Herman Cain did not emerge.
The master of ceremonies, a local Tea Party organizer named Ron Harwell, had the difficult job of making things look as if they were going smoothly: ''Everyone, uh, we are going to have a song from a friend of Mr. Cain's. His name is Buddy Jewell.''
Jewell, who had a hit song called ''Help Pour Out the Rain (Lacey's Song)'' in 2003, and a less commercially successful single, ''This Ain't Mexico,'' in 2008, started setting up his guitar.
''Uh, listen folks -- Herman Cain has a situation,'' came a voice from the stage. ''He has a hard interview coming up on the Huckabee show,'' the voice continued. ''And he has to start that interview precisely at a certain time, so he can't get off the bus until he finishes that interview.''
''No problem!'' yelled someone in the crowd.
About 15 minutes later -- shortly after Jewell had finished ''What This Country's Comin' To'' (inspired by ''a fella burnin' the American flag'') -- Cain emerged from the bus.
''Ladies and gentlemen, here's the moment we've been waiting for,'' Harwell said, relieved. ''I want to introduce you to a man who's Christian by the grace of God, an American by the blessing of God and black by the choice of God -- ''
Harwell (who likewise is black by the choice of God) trailed off.
Cain took a folding chair near the dais and seated himself with his back to the crowd.
''He hasn't finished his Huckabee interview,'' Harwell explained, sounding uneasy, ''and he'll be right there.''
Pause.
''Beautiful day, isn't it?''
Ambient noise had to be kept minimal for the interview, so all stage entertainment stopped. The star of the show sat with his back to the crowd, and, for most of the next half-hour, hundreds of people stood on the lawn in slightly bewildered silence.
Herman Cain gets away with stuff like this -- stuff like being inconsiderate or egomaniacal, or just stuff like saying absolutely the wrong thing. An ordinary candidate wouldn't recover from saying that he wouldn't appoint Muslims to his cabinet or admitting that, yeah, he's kind of been studying up on Israeli history since that question about right of return and now understands some of those issues better.
On Oct. 19, Cain (who never agreed to speak with me for this article) released a campaign ad in which Mark Block, Cain's campaign manager, defiantly takes a drag on a cigarette. It was the puff seen round the world. Some people were outraged. Others were amused or annoyed. None of it did any obvious harm to the candidate.
''That's the magic of Herman Cain,'' said an admiring Richard Marriott, chairman of Host Hotels & Resorts, who worked with Cain when both were at the National Restaurant Association. ''No matter what he comes up with, they all laugh and say: 'That's great. He's different.' If somebody else came out with that ad, they would tear him apart.''
A lot of people, both admirers and detractors, use that word, ''magic,'' about Herman Cain.
When Cain finally did take the microphone in Harriman, he was in high spirits. Those who wonder why he eschews Iowa in favor of obscure rural hamlets in Tennessee might consider the hypothesis that Herman Cain, even more than most politicians, loves to be loved. And Harriman loves Herman Cain.
''As we say in some parts of the South,'' Cain began, ''awww shucky ducky now! We gonna have some fun!''
The speech mostly hewed to the standard model Cain takes on the stump. Cain likes to voice short declarative sentences and have people call out ''Yeah!'' or ''That's right!'' after each of them.
''America has become a nation of crises,'' Cain said, setting in motion the Yeahs. ''We have an economic crisis. We have an entitlement-spending crisis. We have an energy crisis. We have an illegal-immigration crisis. We have a foggy-foreign-policy crisis. We have a moral crisis. And the biggest crisis of all is we have a severe deficiency-of-leadership crisis.''
''I am a businessman problem-solver,'' Cain later said, ''not a politician.''
The following Monday, Herman Cain was sorry.
The New York Times had run a blog post about a part of the Harriman speech in which he sparred with an imaginary liberal over the idea of border control; Cain said we should put up a 20-foot-tall, barbed-wire, electric fence with a ''sign on the other side that says: 'It Will Kill You! Warning!' ''
The headline read, ''Cain Proposes Electrified Border Fence.'' The candidate was taken aback. Proposes? Now, 9-9-9 -- that's a proposal. But this fence stuff was just a bit of riffing. Actually, it was a joke. Herman Cain was sorry. Very sorry.
Cain was meeting in Phoenix with Joe Arpaio -- the Maricopa County sheriff infamous for issuing inmates pink underwear, running tent-city jails and busting illegal immigrants. ''I kind of like this guy,'' Sheriff Joe said, looking over at Cain, ''because he's unconventional, controversial, tells it like it is.''
Arpaio wore a slightly weathered charcoal suit, scuffed black shoes and a dark tie. Cain wore a crisp charcoal suit, glossy black Oxfords and a gold tie. (He calls gold ''my power color.'') ''Neither one of us have been to political-correctness school,'' Cain said with a smile, ''and I still don't plan on going to any political-correctness school.''
The candidate wanted to make a few points: message matters more than media, campaign donations were picking up and people who suggested that this presidential run was about getting Herman Cain a TV show were completely wrong.
''If you know Herman Cain, you know nothing is further from the truth,'' Cain said. ''And if you don't believe me, I invite you to get a copy of my new book, 'This Is Herman Cain!' If you can find one, because they are selling like hotcakes.''
Cain pivoted over to Obamacare, which he said could destroy America's health system. ''We got the best in the world!'' Cain said. ''Why do you think sheeks and shakes and shikes come here when they get sick? Because we have the best -- '' Cain stopped short. ''That's supposed be a joke, y'all.''
''I want to talk a bit about the electrified fence,'' a reporter began.
''It-was-a-joke!'' Cain said.
Yes, said the reporter, but what about the people for whom it was a sensitive topic?
''Some people don't think that it was a good joke,'' Cain said. ''And it's probably not a joke you're supposed to make if you're a presidential candidate. I apologize if it offended anyone. Mea culpa, mea culpa, mea culpa.'' His hands gripped the lectern tightly.
That night, Cain delivered a closed-door speech to the party faithful at the Phoenix Convention Center. Near the end of the speech, Cain trotted out one of his standard lines: ''As the great philosopher Emeril Lagasse says, 'Kick it up a notch!'
''I can see the headline tomorrow,'' Cain added, taking on a confused expression and switching over to a soft and solemn ''newscaster'' voice: ''Uh, Herman Cain thinks Emeril Lagasse is a philosopher.''
Laughter.
''You know, America needs to lighten up! You know?''
The Web site of J. D. Gordon Communications, the firm founded by Cain's campaign spokesman, J. D. Gordon, offers, among its services, ''crisis communications.'' It notes that ''timely and accurate responses to a crisis have never been more important to success.'' Given the way Gordon has handled Cain's latest crisis communications, perhaps Guantanamo Bay, where Gordon was the Navy spokesman, should be seen in a new light.
Then again, Herman Cain is not one to bring conventional hires to his campaign.
Mark Block, Cain's campaign manager, earned a three-year ban on running Wisconsin political campaigns after he supposedly created a slush fund for a judge's re-election effort. Block has also had a couple of drunken-driving arrests, and he ran a private organization that helped the Cain campaign in a way that ''might breach federal tax and campaign law,'' according to The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel.
Scott Toomey was an independent consultant involved with the campaign until this June, but a former staff member has claimed that Toomey's involvement was kept concealed from the public because Toomey is gay. Toomey also served briefly as treasurer of a gay-pride group in Madison, Wis., before he was removed on account of ''financial discrepancies'' that the organization said surfaced during his tenure.
Jamie Brazil, a Scranton-based consultant, is now vice president of national field and political preparations. Somebody by the same uncommon name, who was represented by a Scranton-based lawyer, was barred by the National Association of Securities Dealers in 2006 ''from associating with any member in any capacity,'' according to an N.A.S.D. panel decision. When the N.A.S.D. asked him to provide certain information, Brazil ''asserted his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination.'' The Cain campaign did not respond to requests to comment on the matter.
With a team like that in place -- one that seems suited less to desks and campaign buttons than to pirate ships and eye patches -- is it any surprise that Cain's damage-control strategy turned out to be imperfect? And is it any wonder that Herman Cain has shed a lot of high-level campaign staff members, both within his national organization and in crucial early states like Iowa and New Hampshire? Most of these former staff members have signed nondisclosure agreements, and others would speak to me only off the record. None of them recall their former boss as a sexual harasser. But they do speak of a man so egotistical that careful self-policing would never really enter into the realm of consideration.
They also speak -- bitterly -- of a candidate with zero interest in policy. They speak of events canceled at the last minute to accommodate any available television interview. They speak of unrelenting self-absorption, even by the standards of a politician.
But they don't speak of someone who can't win.
After his stop in Arizona, Cain traveled to Las Vegas, mostly to take part in a CNN debate moderated by Anderson Cooper. It did not go well.
Rick Santorum pointed out that the series of government bailouts over the last few years started with the Troubled Asset Relief Program, which was touted by Mitt Romney and Herman Cain.
''I supported the concept of TARP,'' Cain answered. ''But then, when this administration used discretion and did a whole lot of things that the American people didn't like, I was then against it. So yes, and I'm owning up to that.''
Cain also faced questions about having told Wolf Blitzer that he might, under the right circumstances, release Guantanamo Bay prisoners to Al Qaeda in a hypothetical prisoner swap.
''I don't recall him saying that it was Al Qaeda-related,'' Cain said.
''Yes, he did,'' Cooper said.
''Well, I don't really,'' Cain stammered. ''My policy will be, we cannot negotiate with terrorists.''
Cain, when flustered, is very different from Cain the motivational speaker. He grows stiff, his jaw tightens and his blinking speeds up. Meaningless phrases (''It was a joke to the extent in the context of the views that speech'') pile up in a panic.
An interview with Piers Morgan the next day went just as poorly, with Cain, supposedly a pro-life absolutist, offering a full-throated endorsement of a woman's right to choose. ''What I'm saying is it ultimately gets down to a choice that that family or that mother has to make, not me as president, not some politician, not a bureaucrat,'' Cain said.
This had to be it for his campaign. The past few days had been disastrous.
Cain's next set of poll numbers: solid lead.
Let us pause here to make a necessarily severe assessment: to say that Herman Cain has an imperfect grasp of policy would be unfair not only to George W. Bush in 1999 but also to Britney Spears in 1999. Herman Cain seems like someone who, quite frankly, has never opened a newspaper.
But I suspect Cain's flubs are unrelated to intelligence. In 2010, Julian Sanchez of the Cato Institute set off a lively debate by suggesting conservatives had fallen prey to ''epistemic closure,'' a fancy way of saying that they were getting all their information and opinions exclusively from one another. This may or may not be true of the conservative movement. But it is certainly true of Herman Cain.
''I can honestly say that if I hadn't been on the radio, I wouldn't have been as familiar with the issues as I am now,'' Cain has written. ''I believe that having that program was God's way of forcing me to understand the critical issues confronting our nation.''
In short, Cain's briefings on politics came from heated right-wing callers on talk radio. ''Epistemic closure'' is probably too mild a term for such conditions.
This goes a long way in explaining why Cain has found himself hypothetically negotiating with Al Qaeda or affirming a woman's right to choose. Absent an opposing point of view, you lose sight of what the battle lines are. If you don't see the soldiers on the other side of the line, you might just find yourself wandering over it. And so Cain, who for years has been busy battling liberal straw men in the echo chamber of talk radio, missed the real thing.
Cain got into radio shortly after making a run for Senate in 2004. He was defeated in the Republican primary by Johnny Isakson, who went on to win a spot as the junior United States senator from Georgia. The idea of putting Cain on the air came from the conservative radio host Martha Zoller.
''I had interviewed him throughout his Senate run,'' Zoller, who's now running for Congress, told me. ''I was gonna take some time off, so I called him up and said, 'How would you like to come and fill in for me?' He said, 'Well, I don't know if I can do that.' So I said: 'Look. You're gonna have the producer in the studio. They'll walk you through it. You've got the gift of gab.' ''
Before long, Cain had a radio show of his own. ''He's such a gentleman,'' Zoller said. ''Every time he had something good happen to him in radio, he sent me flowers.''
Years later, Zoller asked Cain for some pointers on public speaking. They met at the Four Seasons in Atlanta, and Cain wrote out a few pages of notes.
''He said: 'Look, it's very simple. Talk about things you're passionate about. And have three points you want to make. If you have three points you want to make, you can remember those, and you can speak from the heart.'''
Zoller noticed that Cain was signing and dating each page of notes. ''Like a keepsake,'' she said.
No one gets into politics without having a healthy self-regard. Cain, it is safe to say, has a healthy self-regard.
It takes self-regard to keep an audience of several hundred waiting and then to use them as your backdrop while you're taping a Huckabee show.
It takes self-regard to write of your only sibling, Thurman, who died at age 52 after years of substance abuse, and end it on this note: ''I loved my brother dearly and still grieve over his untimely death. And I know that he is looking down proudly on my incredible journey.''
It takes self-regard to name your company the Herminator Experience.
It takes self-regard to go to a fancy dinner in Amsterdam with a group of colleagues from the National Restaurant Association and -- well, let Biff Naylor, who was an N.R.A. officer at the time, explain: ''We walk in, and the piano player is getting up to take a break. Herman turns to the owner and says, 'Do you mind if I play the piano and sing some songs?' And we're all looking sideways at Herman. What is he doing? So he takes the piano and starts singing some Sinatra or whatever and just lights the place up.''
It takes self-regard to write down speaking tips and sign your name, as a keepsake, on every page.
Of course, that self-regard could also let you assume your attentions are welcomed and cause colleagues to file sexual-harassment complaints. That's the drawback.
But most of the time it works in your favor.
It has been a weirdly useful self-regard.
Race is, of course, a factor in Herman Cain's campaign. But even with the shadow of Clarence Thomas looming over the latest allegations, the rise of Herman Cain has primarily illustrated how far we've come.
There can be no doubt that Cain draws on a deep American love of black American culture. Black music, black comedy and black oratory are integral to the cultural mainstream in a way that would have been unimaginable 50 years ago but is now taken for granted. This is no less true of the South, where Cain's brand of blackness taps into shared religious faith and a love of the region. His manner of speaking only increases his appeal: 9-9-9 is NAN-NAN-NAN. Hill is HEE-oh. Quarter is KAW-tuh.
''To be an American person is to hear a certain warmth and honesty and genuineness in black cadence,'' said John McWhorter, a linguistics professor at Columbia University. ''That's why Barack Obama was so deft in summoning it, at times, such as with the way he inflected 'Yes, we can.' ''
When I watched Cain at a rally in Rogersville, Tenn., each of his remarks was drawing a ''That's right!'' from a group of older white men and women near me.
''Make sure you surround yourself with good people, and then put together the plans that make sense, that's gonna fix stuff.''
''That's right!''
''If you don't know what the problem is, you're never going to solve it.''
''That's right!''
It's impossible to imagine Mitt Romney having that sort of effect.
While it is often speculated that Cain's popularity is in part the product of Tea Partiers trying to prove themselves nonracist, I met a lot of Cain supporters, and nothing about their ardor seemed to be explained by that. At the Harriman rally, I spoke to an 80-year-old white man named Don McMeans and his wife, Linda. McMeans said that if Cain visits Oklahoma, where McMeans has a second home, he will head out there to support him. Not to do anything specific, mind you, just to be one of the hundreds or thousands of other cheering people in a crowd.
As Jane Austen famously wrote, ''One half of the world cannot understand the pleasures of the other.'' But that's hard to accept. When we fail to understand our opponents, we tend to psychoanalyze them. What you really want is to prove you're not racist.What you really want is to bring down capitalism. But people, for the most part, believe what they say they believe. You don't get 80-year-olds traveling to Oklahoma to support a candidate to prove that they're unprejudiced. You get that because when they say they love Herman Cain, they mean that they love Herman Cain.
It's impossible to overstate how important Cain's religious faith is to his followers and to his idea of himself.
It explains, in part, why Tea Party supporters who might favor auditing the Federal Reserve can still support a former Fed insider who has expressed reservations about such an audit. Sometimes, faith goes deeper than fiscal policy. Sal Russo, a strategist with the Tea Party Express, recounted a conversation he had long ago with Tom Campbell, a California Republican who was running for Congress. ''Tom used to bitch to me about how conservatives did this, conservatives did that. I finally said to him: 'Tom, think about it this way. While you're at Sharon Heights Country Club, passing around the white wine and quiche, your fellow Republicans in Kentucky are on their knees praying, passing around a live rattlesnake. They think you're just as strange as we think they are.' ''
Herman Cain, you might say, doesn't think either side is strange. He likes both of them. By being just fine with the rattlesnake, he gets a pass on the quiche.
Sibby Wolfson, who was Cain's assistant from 1997 to 2004, remembers accompanying him as he visited a friend in the hospital. ''The friend was dying, and he told Herman he was scared,'' Wolfson said. ''Herman told him he didn't need to be scared, that God would take care of him. I wondered if something as challenging happened to him personally he would feel the same way about it.''
As it turned out, something similar did happen, when Cain was given a diagnosis of Stage 4 colon cancer in 2006. And Cain apparently did feel the same way. ''He barely missed a beat,'' Wolfson said.
In his book, Cain describes undergoing an operation for his cancer: ''I asked how and where he'' -- the doctor -- ''would cut me open. He showed me and said it would be in the shape of a 'J.' I immediately thought that was a good sign, a Jesus cut!''
And, of course, when God is telling you to run for president, you don't ignore that, either.
''I'm not a devout numerologist,'' Cain writes in 'This Is Herman Cain!' ''But my mathematical training does cause me to recognize when numbers appear more than coincidentally.'' According to Cain, that number, the one that cannot be ascribed to coincidence, is 45.
The salient data (as reported in ''This Is Herman Cain!'') are these:
''I was born on Dec. 13, 1945 -- my conception, gestation and birth all occurred within that year.''
Cain would be the 45th president.
F. A. Hayek published ''The Road to Serfdom'' in 1944. But Reader's Digest later published a condensed version. ''What was the year of the Reader's Digest article's publication? Nineteen forty-five, of course!''
Mark Block and Herman Cain had dinner one night in a restaurant called Table 45.
The chef at the restaurant once worked at a place with a table designated No. 45.
When going home to Atlanta -- ''our flight number was 1045.''
On another flight, Cain asked about the altitude. The answer: 45,000 feet.
E-mail from a campaign observer: ''Do you know how many times Mr. Cain's speech was actually interrupted with applause? Forty-five times!''
Herman Cain was writing his weekly commentary one day, and ''when I checked the number of words, I discovered that it came to 645!''
2012 will be 45th anniversary of Cain's college graduation.
In 2013, ''my first year in the White House, Gloria and I will be celebrating our 45th wedding anniversary.''
Word count of this section, including introduction and conclusion: 245.
All strange things come to an end, and assuming the traditions of American politics over the past half-century hold up, Republicans will pick a nominee who has already run for national office, someone like Mitt Romney (that is to say, Mitt Romney), and Herman Cain's campaign staff will pack up and head home -- or perhaps, in some cases, into courtrooms.
But before that happens, Cain will actually have taught us some of the lessons he claims to be teaching us. This will occur even though no one in politics or journalism takes these lessons seriously -- or believes that Cain takes them seriously either.
Cain likes to tell his audience that ''the voice of the people is more powerful than the voice of the media.'' In fact, he likes to tell them this right after dropping everything for a television interview with Mike Huckabee. But it's partly true. The words on this page will make little difference to Cain's electoral chances. His voters have, for the most part, their own media ecosystem. If epistemic closure has hurt Herman Cain, it has also helped him.
Cain also likes to tell his audience that callers to his show went from ''concerned'' to ''frightened'' for the nation's future. This, too, is true. More than any other candidate, Cain has managed to connect to those Americans -- yet, unlike Sarah Palin, he has done it by unleashing optimism rather than bitterness. He can articulate a crowd's worst fears -- America is falling apart, weakening in the world, suffering economic carnage -- and then reassure everyone that, no worries, we can fix it. If any candidate were able to relate to voters in this way and have a clue what he or she was talking about (there, in Cain's case, is the rub), that person would be unstoppable.
Desperate people tend to latch onto sudden redeemers, but those sudden redeemers usually fade away pretty fast. (Even Rick Perry, with all his strength on the ground, may suffer that fate.) For all his mistakes, for all the many preposterous flubs, Herman Cain has stuck around for a remarkably long time.
And in the first two national polls that were conducted after the sexual-harassment scandal broke, Cain was still looking strong, running right up at the top with Romney.
Awww shucky ducky now.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 13, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Page 28 this weekend about Herman Cain misstates the day he apologized for proposing an electrified fence on the United States border with Mexico, a proposal he said he intended to be taken as a joke. It was Oct. 17, the Monday after he made the comment about the fence, not Tuesday, Oct. 18.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: This Was Herman Cain: The candidate as a student at Morehouse College, 1966. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM THE ESTATE OF LENORA CAIN) (MM30)
 Face the Nation: The Cain campaign bus makes a stop at a rally in Detroit on Oct. 21. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL PUGLIANO/GETTY IMAGES) (MM33) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICHAEL GILLETTE) (MM29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (60%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (55%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: HERMAN CAIN (92%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



588 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; TBR; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Inside the List

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SCHUESSLER

 BODY:
THE LITERARY JOBS: Ever since Walter Isaacson's biography of Steve Jobs hit the mediasphere with hurricane-level force, blogs have been buzzing about the revelation that the one book the tech visionary kept on his iPad 2 was ''Autobiography of a Yogi.'' But far less has been made of another startling literary revelation: that Jobs once had a relationship with the future Pulitzer Prize-winning novelist Jennifer Egan. 
According to Isaacson (who lands at No. 1 this week), Jobs met a pretty blond Penn undergraduate identified simply as ''Jennifer Egan'' at a dinner party in Silicon Valley in 1983, and fell madly in love. A yearlong bicoastal affair ensued, though weekends at the Carlyle in New York are nothing next to the night, sure to cause deep envy in the hearts of nerd-positive girls everywhere, that Jobs appeared at Egan's door with the spanking-new Macintosh and proceeded to set it up in her bedroom himself. Ditto for the late-night phone conversations, in which Egan (who confirmed via e-mail that she was the same Jennifer Egan) challenged Jobs to square his Zen credo of nonattachment with his life's work making highly covetable electronics. ''He was irritated by the dichotomy, and we had exuberant debates about it,'' she recalled to Isaacson. Sigh.
Isaacson's book also adds some juice to our understanding of Jobs's relationship with another literary woman, the novelist Mona Simpson, the long-lost sister Jobs tracked down in his early 30s. (Simpson's parents had given Jobs up for adoption a few years before she was born.) Jobs claimed not to have read ''A Regular Guy,'' Simpson's 1996 novel about a Jobs-like entrepreneur with a thing for vegetarian food and detached parenting (first sentence: ''He was a man too busy to flush toilets''), and the sharp portrayal hardly dented their relationship. Simpson and Jobs had a ''deep affection,'' Isaacson writes, though he did like to ''berate'' her for not wearing ''fetching enough'' clothes. At one point, she wrote him an irritated letter declaring, ''I am a young writer, and this is my life, and I'm not trying to be a model anyway.'' Soon after, a box of clothes from Issey Miyake (who also manufactured some of Jobs's trademark black turtlenecks) arrived, including three identical pantsuits. ''I still remember those first suits I sent Mona,'' Jobs told Isaacson. ''They were linen pants and tops in a pale grayish green that looked beautiful with her reddish hair.''
WRITING FAST AND SLOW: The Nobel Prize-winning psychologist Daniel Kahneman's ''Thinking, Fast and Slow'' lands at No. 3 on the hardcover list this week, which isn't bad for a book that almost didn't get written. In a profile in the December issue of Vanity Fair, Michael Lewis describes meeting Kahneman for the first time four years ago and hearing from the man himself how bad Kahneman's forthcoming book was going to be. After a few years of agonized writing, Kahneman -- in a weird twist on a behavioral economics experiment -- paid four academic experts in decision making $2,000 apiece to read his manuscript and tell him if he should just abandon the project. The reviews, unfortunately, were rapturous. ''By this time it got so ridiculous to quit again,'' Kahneman told Lewis. ''I just finished it.''
CATCHING UP: The last time Haruki Murakami had a hardcover fiction best seller, back on Feb. 27, 2005, his ''Kafka on the Shore'' had just scraped onto the bottom of a list ruled by John Grisham's latest, ''The Broker.'' But the marathon-running Japanese sensation is catching up. This week, Murakami's ''1Q84'' roars in at No. 2, right behind another Grisham offering, ''The Litigators.'' Jennifer Schuessler

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (76%); PARENTING (74%); MEAT FREE DIETS (69%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



589 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1782 words

HEADLINE: Will This Election Be the Mormon Breakthrough?

BYLINE: By HAROLD BLOOM. 
A professor of English at Yale, who is at work on a play, ''To You Whoever You Are: A Pageant Celebrating Walt Whitman.''

 BODY:
THIS fall, we behold omens that will darken a year hence in the final phase of President Obama's campaign for a second term. His likely opponent, the Mormon Mitt Romney, will be a pioneer figure whatever the outcome, since no previous member of that very American church, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, has ever secured a major-party nomination. Even should Mr. Obama triumph, a crucial precedent will have been established.
Mr. Romney, earnest and staid, who is deep within the labyrinthine Mormon hierarchy, is directly descended from an early follower of the founding prophet Joseph Smith, whose highly original revelation was as much a departure from historical Christianity as Islam was and is. But then, so in fact are most manifestations of what is now called religion in the United States, including the Southern Baptist Convention, the Assemblies of God Pentecostalists and even our mainline Protestant denominations. 
However, should Mr. Romney be elected president, Smith's dream of a Mormon Kingdom of God in America would not be fulfilled, since the 21st-century Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has little resemblance to its 19th-century precursor. The current head of the Mormon Church, Thomas S. Monson, known to his followers as ''prophet, seer and revelator,'' is indistinguishable from the secular plutocratic oligarchs who exercise power in our supposed democracy.
The Salt Lake City empire of corporate greed has little enough in common with the visions of Joseph Smith. The oligarchs of Salt Lake City, who sponsor Mr. Romney, betray what ought to have been their own religious heritage. Though I read Christopher Hitchens with pleasure, his characterization of Joseph Smith as ''a fraud and conjuror'' is inadequate. A superb trickster and protean personality, Smith was a religious genius, uniquely able to craft a story capable of turning a self-invented faith into a people now as numerous as the Jews, in America and abroad. According to the church, about six million American citizens are Mormons, and there are more than eight million converts in Asia, Africa and elsewhere.
Persuasively redefining Christianity has been a pastime through the ages, yet the American difference is brazen. What I call the American Religion, and by that I mean nearly all religions in this country, socially manifests itself as the Emancipation of Selfishness. Our Great Emancipator of Selfishness, President Ronald Reagan, refreshingly evaded the rhetoric of religion, but has been appropriated anyway as the archangel of American spiritualized greed.
Marxist slogans rarely ring true in our clime, where religion is the poetry (bad and good) of the people and not its opiate. Poetry is a defense against dying. The American Religion centers upon the denial of death, literalizing an ancient Christian metaphor.
Obsessed by a freedom we identify with money, we tolerate plutocracy as if it could someday be our own ecstatic solitude. A first principle of the American Religion is that each of us rarely feels free unless he or she is entirely alone, particularly when in the company of the American Jesus. Walking and talking with him is akin to receiving his love in a personal and individual relationship.
A dark truth of American politics in what is still the era of Reagan and the Bushes is that so many do not vote their own economic interests. Rather than living in reality they yield to what oddly are termed ''cultural'' considerations: moral and spiritual, or so their leaders urge them to believe. Under the banners of flag, cross, fetus, exclusive marriage between men and women, they march onward to their own deepening impoverishment. Much of the Tea Party fervor merely repeats this gladsome frolic.
AS the author of ''The American Religion,'' I learned a considerable respect for such original spiritual revelations as 19th-century Mormonism and early 20th-century Southern Baptism, admirably re-founded by the subtle theologian Edgar Young Mullins in his ''Axioms of Religion.''
A religion becomes a people, as it has for the Jews and the Mormons, partly out of human tenacity inspired by the promise of the blessing of more life, but also through charismatic leadership. What we now call Judaism was essentially created by Rabbi Akiva ben Joseph to meet the needs of a Jewish people mired under Roman occupation in Palestine and elsewhere in the empire. A great sage, Akiva was also a leader of extraordinary charisma, an old man when martyred by the Emperor Hadrian, presumably for inspiring the insurrection of Bar Kokhba that ended at the siege of Bethar.
Joseph Smith, killed by a mob before he turned 39, is hardly comparable to the magnificent Akiva, except that he invented Mormonism even more single-handedly than Akiva gave us Judaism, or Muhammad, Islam.
I recall prophesying in 1992 that by 2020 Mormonism could become the dominant religion of the western United States. But we are not going to see that large a transformation. I went wrong because the last two decades have witnessed the deliberate dwindling of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints into just one more Protestant sect. Without the changes, Mitt Romney and Jon M. Huntsman Jr., a fellow Mormon, would not seem plausible candidates.
Our political satirists, with Mr. Romney evidently imminent, delight in describing the apparent weirdness of Mormon cosmology and allied speculations, but they forget the equal strangeness of Christian mythology, now worn familiar by repetition. Jorge Luis Borges shrewdly classified all theology as fantastic literature, and Joseph Smith's adventures in the spiritual realm are at least refreshingly original, and were even in 19th-century America, when homegrown systems of belief sprouted prodigiously. Smith was not a good writer, except for one or two of his sermons, as reported in transcriptions by his auditors, but his mythmaking faculty was fecund.
The accurate critique of Mormonism is that Smith's religion is not even monotheistic, let alone democratic. Though the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints no longer openly describes their innermost beliefs, they clearly hold on to the notion of a plurality of gods. Indeed, they themselves expect to become gods, following the path of Joseph Smith.
There are other secrets also, not tellable by the Mormon Church to those it calls ''Gentiles,'' oddly including Jews. That aspects of the religion of a devout president of the United States should be concealed from all but 2 percent of us may be a legitimate question that merits pondering. When I wandered about the South and Southwest from 1989 to 1991, researching American religion, I was heartened by the warmth that greeted me in Pentecostal and Baptist churches, some of them independent indeed. But Gentiles are not allowed in Mormon temples.
Joseph Smith continues to be regarded by many Mormons as a final authority on issues of belief, though so much of his legacy, including plural marriage, had to be compromised in the grand bargain by which the moguls of Salt Lake City became plutocrats defining the Republican party. The hierarchy's vast economic power is founded upon the tithing of the faithful, who yield 10 percent of their income to the church. I am moved by the Occupy Wall Street demonstrations but remain skeptical that you can achieve a lessening of money's influence upon our politics, since money is politics. That dark insight has animated the Mormon hierarchy all through the later 20th and early 21st century. The patriotism of Mormons for some time now has been legendary: they help stock the C.I.A., the F.B.I., the military. Though the powers of the presidency are at this moment somewhat diminished by the Republican House and the atavistic Supreme Court, they remain latent. A Mormon presidency is not quite the same as an ostensibly Catholic or Protestant one, since the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints insists on a religious sanction for its moralistic platitudes.
The 19th-century Mormon theologian Orson Pratt, who was close both to Joseph Smith and Brigham Young, stated a principle the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has never repudiated: ''Any people attempting to govern themselves by laws of their own making, and by officers of their own appointment, are in direct rebellion against the kingdom of God.''
Mormons earn godhead though their own efforts, hoping to join the plurality of gods, even as they insist they are not polytheists. No Mormon need fall into the fundamentalist denial of evolution, because the Mormon God is not a creator. Imaginatively liberating as this may be, its political implications are troublesome. The Mormon patriarch, secure in his marriage and large family, is promised by his faith a final ascension to godhead, with a planet all his own separate from the earth and nation where he now dwells. From the perspective of the White House, how would the nation and the world appear to President Romney? How would he represent the other 98 percent of his citizens?
Other Christians look askance at Mr. Romney and have no trouble saying so. Because of his religion, they will vote only reluctantly for him, or even not vote at all. One of the recent grace notes of our politics was sounded by the ebullient Robert Jeffress, senior pastor of First Baptist Dallas, which boasts 10,000 members. Mr. Jeffress pronounced that the Mormons were a non-Christian cult, as he endorsed his favorite candidate, Gov. Rick Perry, a Christian statesman.
Mr. Perry gently demurred at Mr. Jeffress's dictum, indicating also that he did not endorse the pastor's assertion that the Roman Catholic Church was ''the Scarlet Harlot,'' presumably the Whore of Babylon in the Book of Revelation. Whatever his tactical sleights, the Texas governor displays a continuous religiosity, unlikely to divert secular Republicans clustered in gated exurbia and gracious Eastern suburbs.
We can be certain that President Obama will not care to address these arcane matters in his debates with Mr. Romney. Doubtless Mr. Obama's Christianity is sincere, but happily it is irrelevant to his governing style and aspirations. There appear to be no secular seeming Republicans running for the White House, except, ironically, Mr. Huntsman.
Mormonism's best inheritance from Joseph Smith was his passion for education, hardly evident in the anti-intellectual and semi-literate Southern Baptist Convention. I wonder though which is more dangerous, a knowledge-hungry religious zealotry or a proudly stupid one? Either way we are condemned to remain a plutocracy and oligarchy. I can be forgiven for dreading a further strengthening of theocracy in that powerful brew.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A postcard from around 1910, showing the first six presidents of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, who served from 1830 to 1918. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LCDM UNIVERSAL HISTORY ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES) (SR6-SR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); RELIGION (95%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%)

ORGANIZATION: THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (91%); SOUTHERN BAPTIST CONVENTION (56%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%) UTAH, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFRICA (76%); ASIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



590 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 29A

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Liberal or Conservative, The Problem Is Ignorance

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
James Warren writes a column for The Chicago News Cooperative.
As the Chicago Humanities Festival mulled the state of American news media on Wednesday night, the Republican presidential candidates faced off on the economy.
Together with research out of the University of Chicago, the events helped me clarify a significant misconception. Perhaps it's not media fragmentation that polarizes a culture. Our nemesis may be ignorance.
At the festival, Clara Jeffery, a co-editor of Mother Jones magazine, interviewed David Carr, an incisively idiosyncratic media writer for The New York Times. The interview avoided the often self-important torpor of such discussions and provided an entertaining hour. 
The assembled were a typical festival audience: hypercaffeinated, engaged and probably left-of-center politically. It was not a leap to infer -- there and at a subsequent Mother Jones fund-raiser -- that we are, indeed, increasingly, and perilously, drawn to news media that reaffirm our personal ideologies.
But maybe that potent premise is wrong. It's certainly brushed aside in ''Ideological Segregation Online and Offline,'' a research paper by Matthew Gentzkow and Jesse Shapiro of the Booth School of Business at the University of Chicago.
They analyze data on both online and non-Internet news consumption and face-to-face social interactions, and conclude that there is far less ideology-driven news consumption than we assume.
''The origin of the paper was a sense that the conventional wisdom was wrong,'' Mr. Gentzkow said in an interview. ''We had looked at survey evidence a few years ago, and there seemed less segregation than you'd think. So we asked if we could get data good enough to document the extent to which it is true.''
Their handiwork openly challenges the view that Cass Sunstein, a prominent legal scholar and former university colleague who runs the White House Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, expressed in his 2001 book ''Republic.com.'' Mr. Sunstein wrote that we were moving toward a society in which ''people restrict themselves to their own points of view -- liberals watching and reading mostly or only liberals; moderates, moderates; conservatives, conservatives; neo-Nazis, neo-Nazis.''
Mr. Gentzkow and Mr. Shapiro show that online news consumption is concentrated in a few centrist sites, like Yahoo.com and CNN.com. When one looks at the total audience for ideologically driven sites, those numbers are rather small. Meanwhile, they say, consumers of news media that are seen to symbolize a point of view -- like The New York Times on the left and Fox News on the right -- are more liberal and conservative, respectively, than the average consumer. Those consumers are often political junkies, themselves a small group, who are wide-ranging in their consumption.
Thus, those inspecting Rush Limbaugh's or Glenn Beck's sites ''are more likely than a typical online news reader to have visited nytimes.com,'' the paper says, and ''visitors of extreme liberal sites like thinkprogress.org and moveon.org are more likely than a typical online news reader to have visited foxnews.com.'' The researchers did not inspect local television news, an important source for many that media analyses often overlook.
Their paper concludes that ideological segregation online is ''low in absolute terms, higher than most offline media (excluding national newspapers) and significantly lower than segregation'' in most normal social interactions people have.
''Internet news consumers with homogeneous news diets are rare,'' the authors wrote. ''These findings may mitigate concerns expressed by Sunstein and others that the Internet will increase ideological polarization and threaten democracy.''
What might this have to do with the Republican debate?
A post-mortem by Bloomberg News eviscerated many claims by the candidates, including some on government regulation, bailouts, Medicaid, taxes, student loans and median incomes.
At a minimum, the lack of knowledge suggested intellectual laziness. That's in sync with a population that may care less and less about government and world affairs, a problem exacerbated by a declining education system and lack of civics instruction.
It led me to another, little-noticed effort by Mr. Gentzkow, Mr. Shapiro and Michael Sinkinson of Harvard Business School: ''The Effect of Newspaper Entry and Exit on Electoral Politics.''
That paper argues that the decline of newspapers matters. People who read an actual paper participate more in politics. And don't be fooled by the obvious shift of audiences online, they conclude. There's no comparison between time spent consuming news in print and time spent consuming news online. It's minutes versus seconds.
It's why ignorance may trump ideology as our real curse.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); WRITERS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); FUNDRAISING (72%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (60%)

PERSON: RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



591 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Obama Sees an Opening on China Trade

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
HONOLULU -- President Obama promised to continue ''a frank dialogue'' on economic disputes with China as he met with its president, Hu Jintao, on the sidelines of a trade summit here on Saturday. But, he added, ''We should be rooting for China to grow.''
As millions of Chinese emerge from poverty, ''those are potential customers for us in the future,'' Mr. Obama told a business group before the leaders met. He was addressing an issue that is certain to be part of the political debate as he seeks re-election; Republican presidential candidates have made China-bashing a prominent part of their critique of Mr. Obama's economic record. 
Mr. Hu, speaking to reporters as he and Mr. Obama were about to go behind closed doors, said that ''growing instability and uncertainty in the world economic recovery'' makes it all the more essential that China and the United States cooperate.
Security concerns also came up in their meeting and in Mr. Obama's separate huddle with President Dmitry A. Medvedev of Russia -- in particular, Iran's nuclear program, where the United States has sought to enlist the two powers to pressure Iran.
Mr. Obama's meetings with the leaders of China, Russia and Japan came after the announcement that he and the leaders of eight other Pacific Rim nations had agreed to the outline of a Trans-Pacific Partnership to lower barriers to trade and investment and pledged to complete it in 2012.
While the group does not include China or Japan, Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda told Mr. Obama in their private meeting that Japan would join the negotiations, the White House said. The other nations are Australia, New Zealand, Malaysia, Brunei, Singapore, Vietnam, Chile and Peru. The Asian nations among them look to such alliances with the United States to offset China's muscle, which explains China's wariness.
Mr. Obama said the partnership, like the recently approved free-trade pact with South Korea, ''will also help achieve my goal of doubling U.S. exports, which support millions of American jobs.'' He called it a model for future pacts because ''it addresses a whole range of issues not covered by past agreements'' like workers' and environmental rights.
Michael Froman, administration adviser for international economic affairs, said the group still could have a final agreement with Japan in the mix. But he noted a ''long history of trade issues with Japan'' -- before China's rise, Japan was the object of anti-trade sentiments in the United States. Mr. Obama told Mr. Noda that Japan would have to open its agriculture, services and manufacturing markets, officials said.
Mr. Froman, responding to reports that China has complained about not being invited to the group's negotiations, said the partnership ''is not something that one gets invited to. It's something that one aspires to'' -- if they can meet the standards for free and fair trade.
Trade talk among the Pacific Rim leaders is to continue on Sunday with the main event, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum representing 21 economies. Mr. Obama, as host, has sought to use the summit to symbolize the primacy of Asia and the Pacific region for United States foreign policy after a decade in which war in the Middle East has dominated. Yet Europe's debt crisis intruded as a subject of discussion, officials said.
At a session with executives whose companies operate in Asia, Jim McNerney, the chief executive of Boeing and the leader of Mr. Obama's exports advisory council, said Asians have expressed concern to American business executives that the United States does not treat the region as a priority.
''The United States is a Pacific power, and we are here to stay,'' Mr. Obama said.
''We're going to be going through some tough fiscal positions back home,'' he added, reflecting awareness of some Asian nations' concern that budget-cutting could reduce the United States' ability to be a military counterweight to China. But, he said, Asia ''has to remain a top priority'' because it is ''the fastest-growing region in the world.''
The separate appearances of Mr. Obama and Mr. Hu at the executives' forum offered a hint of their later private meeting.
Mr. Obama said China must ''play by the rules,'' and he cited its undervalued currency, which makes American exports more expensive in China, and violations of American companies' intellectual property rights as continuing headaches. For China to fail to protect those companies' patents, copyrights and innovations ''is not acceptable.''
Mr. Hu said, ''China takes protecting intellectual property rights seriously.'' In remarks that largely were a pitch to businesses to invest in China, he said his nation's goal was to improve its capacity to innovate so that its economy is redefined ''from 'Made in China' to 'Created by China.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama met with China's President Hu Jintao. (POOL PHOTO BY KENT NISHIMURA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); APPROVALS (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); HU JINTAO (92%); DMITRY MEDVEDEV (58%); YOSHIHIKO NODA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (97%); JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); MALAYSIA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); ASIA (79%); PERU (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



592 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: Show of Hands, Please: Who Can Buy Art?

BYLINE: By JULIA CHAPLIN

 BODY:
THE artist Cindy Sherman stood underneath ''Bangkok II,'' a new large-scale photograph by Andreas Gursky that was being unveiled Nov. 4 at the fortress-like Gagosian Gallery in Chelsea. Ms. Sherman stared in amusement as Mr. Gursky and Klaus Biesenbach, the MoMA P.S. 1 director, fawned over her sequined Marni handbag. ''Oooh, nice,'' cooed Larry Gagosian, the super gallerist. ''Are you coming by later?''
Mr. Gagosian was circling shark-like amid the well-coiffed art patrons, recruiting for a private dinner he was holding later at his Upper East Side house. ''Make sure they know how to get there,'' he yelled across the room to a blond woman in black.
Meanwhile, a group had gathered under one of Mr. Gursky's ''Ocean'' photographs. ''I already saw these in Los Angeles,'' said a woman in shiny equestrian-style boots, referring to a Gagosian show there last March, before she moved to the next room. 
If the mood seemed tense, it was understandable. The contemporary-art auctions were about to start, amid signs of a troubled economy. ''I don't want to talk about it,'' Mr. Gursky said of the auctions. His photo, ''Rhein 2,'' was up for sale at Christie's.
Cecelia Dean, a founder of Visionaire, was on her way out. ''I'm not going to the auctions,'' she said. ''I'm not part of the 1 percent.''
The postwar and contemporary-art auctions happen twice a year in New York -- in November and May -- setting much of the tone for the global art market. Despite the debt crisis engulfing Europe and an Occupy Wall Street protest directed at Sotheby's, life inside the art bubble remained effervescent, buoyed by a marathon of flawlessly orchestrated parties, invitation-only dinners and blue-chip openings.
Rock bands played to $25,000-a-table crowds. Red-carpet celebrities crashed the party. And by week's end, record prices were set not only for the pop master Roy Lichtenstein and the abstract expressionist Clyfford Still, but for trendier contemporary artists like Paul McCarthy and Gerhard Richter.
To build anticipation, the three major auction houses hold competing brunches, an important social ritual where gossip and observations are traded. At the Sotheby's brunch last Sunday, collectors and dealers gathered in the 10th floor dining room for mimosas and quiche like it was a country club. (Sotheby's, the most staid of the lot, serves brunch in a separate hall, so as not to mix food and art; Christie's serves mini-muffins and scones in the galleries, and guests are allowed to carry them around.)
Many last saw one another in October in London, at the Frieze Art Fair and the contemporary-art auctions. Topic A was the Maurizio Cattelan retrospective ''All'' at the Guggenheim and the negative reviews. (The New York Times art critic Roberta Smith called the hung show ''ultimately disrespectful and perverse .'' )
Several works by Mr. Cattelan were up at auction. Mr. Cattelan, who loves toying with the rich, had a stretch Hummer limousine parked outside of his opening at the Guggenheim the previous Thursday marked with the words ''Toilet Paper,'' the title of his magazine; he used the limo to reach his after-party at the Boom Boom Room.
Others spoke of the billionaire Peter Brant's reception the day before at his estate in Greenwich, Conn., for the Canadian artist David Altmejd. Mr. Brant had converted his stone barn into a nonprofit art foundation, where Mary-Kate Olsen and China Chow, host of the Bravo reality show ''Work of Art: The Next Great Artist,'' were among the celebrities spotted.
''I always like to see what Peter shows,'' said Stavros Merjos, a collector and dealer in Los Angeles, standing in front of a red fluorescent Plexiglass and stainless steel sculpture by Donald Judd. (He ended the week with a few acquisitions, including Ed Ruscha's ''Strange Catch For a Fresh Water Fish,'' for $3.8 million.) ''The auctions have become a lot more social in the last few years,'' Mr. Merjos said.
Nearby, Anthony Grant, a specialist of contemporary art at Sotheby's, was working the crowds that had gathered by the four abstract Clyfford Still paintings, including ''1949-A-No. 1,'' a red-and-black canvas that would sell three days later for $61.7 million, a record price for the artist at auction.
''I hope the Occupy Wall Street group doesn't show up,'' Mr. Grant said to Meryl Rose, whose family founded the Rose Art Museum in Waltham, Mass. (About 100 protesters did show Wednesday night, shouting ''Shame on you.'' They were protesting a labor dispute between union art handlers and Sotheby's. Bidders had to exit through a side door, but the auction, and spending spirit, were otherwise unmolested.)
The auctions themselves were the main event. Tommy Hilfiger raised his paddle several times at Phillips de Pury auction house. And Leonardo DiCaprio, nearly incognito under a baseball cap, sat on his hands Tuesday evening at Christie's, but the crowd was more awed by Lichtenstein's 1961 painting ''I Can See the Whole Room!... and There's Nobody in it.'' A collective gasp was heard when, at the last moment, Guy Bennett, a New York dealer, raised the bidding by $500,000, to $38.5 million, setting another record price for an artist at auction.
For some, the real jockeying takes place afterward, when the art cabal ducks out early around 8:30 p.m. (evening sales often trail on till after 9 p.m.) for their reservations at power spots like Casa Lever or Cafe Boulud. Just as coveted are invitations to the private dinners.
Last Monday, after the somewhat disappointing sales at Phillips, collectors had to pick between the Hauser & Wirth party for Paul McCarthy at Le Caprice and the Luxembourg & Dayan group-show dinner at Sant Ambroeus on Madison Avenue.
''We always plan openings for between auction weeks,'' said Amalia Dayan, an owner of the gallery, dressed in a black Balenciaga tuxedo. ''It's when everyone is in town and you get a much bigger, international crowd.'' She and her husband, Adam Lindemann, greeted their guests, who arrived with catalogs in hand and prices scrawled in pen, a badge of attendance.
Rob Pruitt, the artist, was standing by the long bar with David Mugrabi, of the New York art dealer family, who stopped by for a drink before heading to another dinner. Mr. Mugrabi had just purchased Mr. Pruitt's three panels of glitter and enamel penguins titled ''Ladies and Gentleman..(Art Awards Penguins)'' for $55,000. Mr. Pruitt seemed pleased but a little confused. ''You'd think after 20 years in the art world I'd have been to an auction,'' Mr. Pruitt said. ''But I'm not really sure how to get a ticket. Do you call up? Do you have to be invited?''
Guests, including the artists John Currin and Rachel Feinstein, Hope Atherton, the model Linda Evangelista and the Palestinian journalist Rula Jebreal, sat down for a three-course Milanese meal of artichoke salad, mushroom risotto and tiramisu lubricated by bottomless glasses of wine.
At table No. 1, Dennis Freedman, the creative director at Barneys, traded gossip with Frank M. Moore, a collector and neurosurgeon. ''Have you ever noticed a certain woman who always shows up a few minutes late for the auctions in a tight dress?'' Mr. Moore asked. ''I mean it makes total sense: some of the world's richest, sophisticated men are there with the best taste ... well, maybe not the best taste.''
At another table was the Parisian gallerist Emmanuel Perrotin, the artist Chris Ofili, the architect David Adjaye and the Russian art collector Inga Rubenstein. ''Auctions can be kind of boring, but I went to one in London last spring where protesters had snuck in and started moaning,'' said Ashley Shaw Scott, a model and Mr. Adjaye's girlfriend. ''They had to be hauled out by security, it was so much fun.''
By 11:30 p.m., the guests began to make their way toward cars idling on Madison Avenue. Mr. Lindemann stood by the bottleneck at the door. ''See you tomorrow at the auctions,'' he said in lieu of goodbye.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WHITE SPACE: A room to mingle at the Andreas Gursky opening reception at the Gagosian Gallery in Chelsea.(ST1)
 IN FOCUS: The artist Rachel Feinstein, center, at dinner at Sant Ambroeus after the opening of ''Grisaille.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); ART COLLECTING (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (67%); DEBT CRISIS (66%); POP & ROCK (61%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (50%)

COMPANY: GAGOSIAN GALLERY (93%); SOTHEBY'S (85%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS453920 ART DEALERS (93%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%)

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2011



593 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: Spotlight Fixed on Geithner, A Man Obama Fought to Keep

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As friends, donors, cabinet members and celebrities like Tom Hanks, Jay-Z and Stevie Wonder partied at the White House one evening last August to celebrate President Obama's 50th birthday, the president tapped a lesser-known guest on the shoulder.
''Take a walk with me,'' he said to Carole Sonnenfeld Geithner, within earshot of others.
Their stroll on the South Lawn was Mr. Obama's last step in a lengthy effort to keep her husband, Timothy F. Geithner, as secretary of the Treasury for the rest of the president's term. Having worn down Mr. Geithner, Mr. Obama wanted to explain why it was important that her husband delay his return to New York.
That Mr. Obama went to such lengths to keep Mr. Geithner, after not having done the same with others on his economic team who had left at midterm, underscored how much he had come to rely on Mr. Geithner. 
The question for outsiders as varied as Tea Party Republicans and liberal Democrats is why Mr. Obama would be so insistent that Mr. Geithner stay. As Treasury secretary, he was the highest-ranking member of a team that underestimated the depth of the downturn, and he has managed both to anger Wall Street firms and to be a target of criticism at Occupy Wall Street rallies.
For Mr. Obama, however, Mr. Geithner has emerged as the indispensable economic adviser who has outlasted every other member of the original inner circle and whose successes easily outweigh his missteps. The two are not friends exactly -- Mr. Geithner rolls his eyes at the idea of playing golf, the president's preferred form of relaxation -- but they are what David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's political adviser, calls ''kindred spirits.''
Europe's troubles, perhaps more than anything, highlight what Mr. Obama likes about Mr. Geithner, because they help show how the effects of the financial crisis could have been worse in this country.
After a rocky first few weeks in the job, Mr. Geithner managed to stabilize the country's troubled banks by forcing them to own up to their problems and seek additional funds from both the government and the private sector. The Treasury has even earned a profit for taxpayers on the still-reviled bank bailout program.
European leaders -- defying repeated advice from Mr. Geithner, by phone and in five trips so far this year -- have taken a much less aggressive approach, applying one Band-Aid after another to address their mounting debts and ailing banks, only to discover they must do more.
''They're moving ahead, but we just need them to move ahead more quickly and with more force behind it,'' Mr. Geithner said of European leaders on Thursday, after meeting with Pacific region finance ministers in Honolulu.
Many outside analysts believe that if Europe had followed the Treasury's lead sooner and forced banks to hold more capital, its financial institutions would not be so vulnerable.
The administration misjudged the length of the downturn, as did many private economists. Although Mr. Geithner wanted Congress to pass more short-term help for the economy than it did, he was not among those in the administration who were pushing hardest for additional short-term measures to lift hiring.
As a consequence, Mr. Obama's economic team failed to help him prepare Americans for the pain ahead. It has proved a defining mistake of the Obama administration.
Although Congress limited the administration's options, many economists fault Mr. Obama and Mr. Geithner for being too timid in intervening, especially to help homeowners. In White House meetings, Mr. Obama has repeatedly voiced frustrations -- sometimes brandishing letters from distressed homeowners -- that the administration's initiatives have not helped nearly as many homeowners as advertised.
''I just don't think they tried hard enough, and I've told the administration that,'' said Alan S. Blinder, an economist at Princeton and former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve. ''They haven't done the really difficult things -- like using a lot more public money. Yes, there are legal complexities, political difficulties and all that. But stemming this epidemic of foreclosures was -- and still is -- vitally important.''
Officials say that Mr. Obama does not blame Mr. Geithner either for the persistent housing problems or for the administration's miscalculations of the slump. Many underestimated the crisis, they note, and Congressional Republicans' opposition has limited the administration's options. Mr. Obama saw Mr. Geithner, especially in the first year, as responsible mainly for the financial system, rather than as captain of the economic team, as other previous Treasury secretaries have been.
Europe's worsening crisis, and the potential for contagion, loomed large in Mr. Obama's arguments that Mr. Geithner remain at the Treasury Department. Also, with further budget battles with Republicans ahead, Mr. Geithner's departure could signal additional instability to financial markets -- especially given the likelihood that Senate Republicans would try to block confirmation of a successor -- and distract the White House just as Mr. Obama's re-election campaign is under way, officials said.
Aides say that nearly as important to the president as Mr. Geithner's expertise in battling financial crises has been his style in doing so. He was cool in a crisis, and while he was just as confident as the other members of the administration's first team of economic advisers, with its big egos, he was the self-effacing one who could break the tension with a little sarcasm, a lot of profanity and his high-pitched giggle.
Born two weeks apart in August 1961, the president and Mr. Geithner each spent childhood years in Asia because each had a parent working for the Ford Foundation on overseas development. Both like to describe themselves as pragmatists, and both are more private than social. Mr. Geithner's rule at Treasury -- ''no peacocks, no jerks, no whiners'' -- is a variation of Mr. Obama's ''no drama'' dictum.
One difference between them is their motivation for being in government. Mr. Geithner, who was a registered Republican as a young man, has focused on financial problem-solving since his early career at Treasury through the 1990s, including the Asian and Mexican crises back then. For Mr. Obama, the presidency is a chance to change ''the trajectory of America,'' as he said during the 2008 campaign.
The contrast between the ambitious activist and his adviser, the problem solver, was evident shortly after the election. In a conference call with advisers, Mr. Obama spoke of the transformative domestic policies he had promised and now would pursue. Mr. Geithner, say people familiar with the exchange, cautioned that the crisis Mr. Obama had inherited was so severe that it would constrain him.
''Your legacy is going to be preventing the second Great Depression,'' Mr. Geithner said.
Vexed, Mr. Obama replied, ''That's not enough for me.''
Mr. Geithner, in an interview, declined to talk much about his relationship or discussions with Mr. Obama. Yet he suggested that he sees his value as his willingness to say what Mr. Obama may not want to hear, given that presidents often do not get unvarnished advice.
''I think you worry a lot: Do people tell you what they really think? You really want that most,'' Mr. Geithner said. ''I don't think with me he ever doubted.''
In the summer of 2010, for example, Mr. Geithner tried to get the White House to fight to make sure the Bush-era tax cuts for the wealthy expired at the end of that year as scheduled -- not only to reduce deficits but to be more fair.
''The most affluent 400 earners in 2007, who earned an average of more than $340 million each that year, paid only 17 percent of their income in taxes -- a lower rate than many who consider themselves middle-class Americans,'' Mr. Geithner said in a speech at the time, as he tried to lead the charge against Republicans' push to extend the rates.
Yet Mr. Obama did not take up the cause, dissuaded by Democrats in Congress who were worried about how a tax fight might affect the midterm elections.
Mr. Geithner has long since come to understand that he will remain unpopular among both some supporters and opponents of Mr. Obama.
''To the extent people aren't happy, you'd rather have the secretary of Treasury be the spear-catcher instead of the president himself,'' said Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic pollster. ''And if Geithner were a liability, they'd have let him go when he wanted to go.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama and Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, described as ''kindred spirits.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANK FAILURES (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); BAILOUTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (65%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (61%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (92%); TOM HANKS (73%); JAY-Z (73%); DAVID AXELROD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (76%) HAWAII, USA (76%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



594 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: The New Progressive Movement

BYLINE: By JEFFREY D. SACHS. 
The director of the Earth Institute at Columbia University and the author, most recently, of ''The Price of Civilization: Reawakening American Virtue and Prosperity.''

 BODY:
OCCUPY WALL STREET and its allied movements around the country are more than a walk in the park. They are most likely the start of a new era in America. Historians have noted that American politics moves in long swings. We are at the end of the 30-year Reagan era, a period that has culminated in soaring income for the top 1 percent and crushing unemployment or income stagnation for much of the rest. The overarching challenge of the coming years is to restore prosperity and power for the 99 percent.
Thirty years ago, a newly elected Ronald Reagan made a fateful judgment: ''Government is not the solution to our problem. Government is the problem.'' Taxes for the rich were slashed, as were outlays on public services and investments as a share of national income. Only the military and a few big transfer programs like Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid and veterans' benefits were exempted from the squeeze. 
Reagan's was a fateful misdiagnosis. He completely overlooked the real issue -- the rise of global competition in the information age -- and fought a bogeyman, the government. Decades on, America pays the price of that misdiagnosis, with a nation singularly unprepared to face the global economic, energy and environmental challenges of our time.
Washington still channels Reaganomics. The federal budget for nonsecurity discretionary outlays -- categories like highways and rail, education, job training, research and development, the judiciary, NASA, environmental protection, energy, the I.R.S. and more -- was cut from more than 5 percent of gross domestic product at the end of the 1970s to around half of that today. With the budget caps enacted in the August agreement, domestic discretionary spending would decline to less than 2 percent of G.D.P. by the end of the decade, according to the White House. Government would die by fiscal asphyxiation.
Both parties have joined in crippling the government in response to the demands of their wealthy campaign contributors, who above all else insist on keeping low tax rates on capital gains, top incomes, estates and corporate profits. Corporate taxes as a share of national income are at the lowest levels in recent history. Rich households take home the greatest share of income since the Great Depression. Twice before in American history, powerful corporate interests dominated Washington and brought America to a state of unacceptable inequality, instability and corruption. Both times a social and political movement arose to restore democracy and shared prosperity.
The first age of inequality was the Gilded Age at the end of the 19th century, an era quite like today, when both political parties served the interests of the corporate robber barons. The progressive movement arose after the financial crisis of 1893. In the following decades Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson came to power, and the movement pushed through a remarkable era of reform: trust busting, federal income taxation, fair labor standards, the direct election of senators and women's suffrage.
The second gilded age was the Roaring Twenties. The pro-business administrations of Harding, Coolidge and Hoover once again opened up the floodgates of corruption and financial excess, this time culminating in the Great Depression. And once again the pendulum swung. F.D.R.'s New Deal marked the start of several decades of reduced income inequality, strong trade unions, steep top tax rates and strict financial regulation. After 1981, Reagan began to dismantle each of these core features of the New Deal.
Following our recent financial calamity, a third progressive era is likely to be in the making. This one should aim for three things. The first is a revival of crucial public services, especially education, training, public investment and environmental protection. The second is the end of a climate of impunity that encouraged nearly every Wall Street firm to commit financial fraud. The third is to re-establish the supremacy of people votes over dollar votes in Washington.
None of this will be easy. Vested interests are deeply entrenched, even as Wall Street titans are jailed and their firms pay megafines for fraud. The progressive era took 20 years to correct abuses of the Gilded Age. The New Deal struggled for a decade to overcome the Great Depression, and the expansion of economic justice lasted through the 1960s. The new wave of reform is but a few months old.
The young people in Zuccotti Park and more than 1,000 cities have started America on a path to renewal. The movement, still in its first days, will have to expand in several strategic ways. Activists are needed among shareholders, consumers and students to hold corporations and politicians to account. Shareholders, for example, should pressure companies to get out of politics. Consumers should take their money and purchasing power away from companies that confuse business and political power. The whole range of other actions -- shareholder and consumer activism, policy formulation, and running of candidates -- will not happen in the park.
The new movement also needs to build a public policy platform. The American people have it absolutely right on the three main points of a new agenda. To put it simply: tax the rich, end the wars and restore honest and effective government for all.
Finally, the new progressive era will need a fresh and gutsy generation of candidates to seek election victories not through wealthy campaign financiers but through free social media. A new generation of politicians will prove that they can win on YouTube, Twitter, Facebook and blog sites, rather than with corporate-financed TV ads. By lowering the cost of political campaigning, the free social media can liberate Washington from the current state of endemic corruption. And the candidates that turn down large campaign checks, political action committees, Super PACs and bundlers will be well positioned to call out their opponents who are on the corporate take.
Those who think that the cold weather will end the protests should think again. A new generation of leaders is just getting started. The new progressive age has begun.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters severely disrupted operations at the Port of Oakland, Calif., earlier this month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENT PORTER/THE PRESS DEMOCRAT, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (SR6-SR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (79%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); MEDICARE (69%); MILITARY BENEFITS (68%); VETERANS (68%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (64%); MEDICAID (55%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



595 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1490 words

HEADLINE: Up for Debate: Foreign Policy and Obama

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and ASHLEY PARKER; Richard A. Oppel Jr. contributed reporting from Spartanburg, and Jeff Zeleny from Washington.

 BODY:
SPARTANBURG, S.C. -- The eight major Republican candidates for president joined in a united attack against President Obama as commander in chief during a debate here Saturday, but at times differed sharply over how to block Iran's nuclear ambitions and the way forward with Pakistan.
The debate, held by CBS News and The National Journal, was the first to focus exclusively on foreign policy, and the candidates seemed more focused on presenting themselves as plausible commanders in chief than on knocking one another off balance.
His fortunes rising in polls, former Speaker Newt Gingrich declined an invitation to repeat his Friday critique of the presumed Republican front-runner, Mitt Romney, as insufficient to the task of changing Washington, saying sternly, ''We're here tonight to talk to the American people about why every single one of us is better than Barack Obama.'' 
As they warily circled one another on the less familiar ground of foreign policy, the candidates offered some provocative suggestions: Gov. Rick Perry of Texas proposed wiping out standing foreign aid commitments to all nations -- including Israel -- and making them meet American conditions before receiving a penny; former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania suggested supporting an Israeli military strike against Iran's nuclear facilities; and former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts repeated his assertion that China should lose access to American markets if it will not play by trade rules.
And the candidates laid bare their internal debate about the use of American force and the approach to national security in the post-Bush era, with the most heated discussion focusing on waterboarding and harsh interrogation techniques in general.
Asked whether they would reinstate waterboarding as a method of interrogation for suspected terrorists, Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota and Herman Cain said they would, and former Gov. Jon M. Huntsman Jr. of Utah and Representative Ron Paul of Texas declared it torture.
''We diminish our standing in the world and the values that we project, which include liberty, democracy, human rights and open markets, when we torture,'' Mr. Huntsman said. ''We should not torture. Waterboarding is torture.''
Defending the practice, which President Obama has discontinued, Mrs. Bachmann said: ''If I were president I would be willing to use waterboarding. I think it was very effective,'' adding, ''It is as though we've decided we want to lose in the war on terror under President Obama.''
On Afghanistan, Mr. Romney said Mr. Obama was moving too soon to draw down the so-called surge troops by next September, arguing that the president was acting out of political motives and that it should wait at least until December of 2012. He added that ''the timetable, by the end of 2014, is the right timetable for us to be completely withdrawn from Afghanistan, other than a small footprint of support forces.''
Mr. Huntsman repeated his call for an immediate pullout. ''I say it's time to come home,'' he said. ''I don't want to be nation-building in Afghanistan when this nation so desperately needs to be built.''
If the debate at times seemed to test the candidates on what has been less familiar ground this campaign season, there were no major gaffes. With help from the CBS moderator Scott Pelley. Mr. Perry successfully made light of his misstep on Wednesday, when he forgot the name of a third federal agency he would seek to eliminate as president, fumbling for the answer -- the Energy Department -- during 53 painful seconds.
On Saturday, when Mr. Pelley began asking how nuclear weapons would be monitored without an Energy Department, Mr. Perry, smiling broadly, cut in: ''I'm glad you remembered it.''
''I've had some time to think about it, sir,'' Mr. Pelley said, to which Mr. Perry shot back, ''Me too.''
After saying that he would start every nation's foreign aid account at zero dollars, even aid to Israel, he quickly added that he was sure that Israel would qualify for ample aid. (Perhaps mindful of that nation's special status among many Republican voters, his campaign sent out a statement during the debate reiterating that point.)
And at one point, he referred to the former Soviet Union as Russia in discussing President Ronald Reagan's prediction that it would ''end up on the ash heap of history.'' He said the same would apply to the Communist Party leaders of China.
If one candidate seemed particularly on unfamiliar ground it was Mr. Cain, who was not his usual affable self, speaking more deliberately and tentatively in a debate that did not give him a single opportunity to promote his signature ''9-9-9'' tax plan.
Recently Mr. Cain mistakenly asserted that China was on the verge of acquiring nuclear weapons, though it has had them since 1964. On Saturday he made a point to mention that Pakistan ''is one of the nine nations that has a nuclear weapon.''
Mr. Cain said he did not know whether Pakistan was a friend or an enemy, a determination that all the candidates agreed complicated the approach to seeking terrorists and deciding on foreign aid.
Mrs. Bachmann and Mr. Santorum argued that Pakistan should continue to receive foreign aid because of its nuclear arsenal. ''We can't be indecisive about whether Pakistan is our friend,'' Mr. Santorum said. ''They must be our friend.''
When it came to perhaps the most urgent emerging threat, Iran's nuclear program -- and a new United Nations report that said Tehran was making progress toward building a weapon -- the three candidates now leading in polls again differed.
Mr. Cain said he would focus on using economic sanctions and aid to the Iranian opposition to pressure the government. ''The only way we can stop them is through economic means,'' he said, adding that he did not believe that the United States should take military action to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear device. He also said that he would ''not at this time'' entertain military assistance to the Iranian opposition.
While Mr. Romney agreed with Mr. Cain about economic sanctions and aid to Iranian opponents of the government in Tehran, he also said that if nothing else worked, he would use the military. ''If all else fails, if after all the work we've done there's nothing else we can do besides take military action, then of course you take military action,'' he said. That appears to be the toughest language he has used the campaign about Iran's nuclear program.
Mr. Gingrich seemed to agree. If ''the dictatorship persists,'' Mr. Gingrich said, ''you have to take whatever steps are necessary to break its capacity to have a nuclear weapon.''
On the other hand, Mr. Paul was sharply critical of the idea. He said that he was concerned that such action would repeat the use of exaggerated and false threats that led to the Iraq war. ''I'm afraid what's going on right now is similar to the war propaganda that went on against Iraq,'' he said.
But Mr. Romney kept the onus on Mr. Obama. ''Look, one thing you can know,'' he said. ''And that is if we re-elect Barack Obama, Iran will have a nuclear weapon.''
The CBS/National Journal debate was 10th of the nominating season. But it was the first focused on foreign policy, which has otherwise taken a back seat to the economy in this year's political discussion.
With the elimination of Osama bin Laden, the fall and death of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi and successful drone strikes against ranking figures in Al Qaeda, national security has become something of a strong point for Mr. Obama, robbing the Republicans of a traditional line of attack against Democrats.
So Saturday's debate presented challenges to the Republican candidates as a whole as their party sought to hone a new line of attack against the president on its traditionally secure turf, but also individually. Nearly all of them have struggled in discussing foreign affairs and national security.
The candidates arrived here with a new dynamic in a race that has been shaped -- often dramatically -- by debate outcomes. Strategists at all of the campaigns, including Mr. Perry's, agreed that his embarrassing memory lapse on Wednesday intensified questions about his political viability.
Mr. Perry's campaign team moved quickly to minimize the damage, with a $1 million advertising campaign on Fox News and a round of high-profile television interviews.
But the pressure was back on Mr. Perry to show some grounding in policy. The stakes were at least equally as high for Mr. Cain, who has spent the better part of the last two weeks fending off accusations that he sexually harassed four women when he was the chief executive of the National Restaurant Association in the late 1990s.
Mr. Cain has dismissed the importance of having foreign policy expertise, telling one radio interviewer earlier in the campaign, ''When they ask me, 'Who is the president of Ubeki-beki-beki-beki-stan-stan?' I'm going to say, 'You know, I don't know. Do you know?' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The eight Republican candidates for president debated Saturday in Spartanburg, S.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ARMED FORCES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (68%); WAR & CONFLICT (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); RICK PERRY (73%); JON HUNTSMAN (58%); HERMAN CAIN (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); RON PAUL (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (89%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); ISRAEL (92%); AFGHANISTAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



596 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: Data-Crunching Mayor Now Sees Power in Words

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
MAYOR MICHAEL R. BLOOMBERG is not, by his own admission, much of a wordsmith. He is forever mispronouncing names -- even those of his own commissioners. He is impatient with speechwriters. And he rarely, if ever, practices his remarks.
''His mentality,'' concedes his top speechwriter, Francis S. Barry, ''is not one of rehearsal.''
But despite his rhetorical handicaps and a reputation for perfunctory prose, New York City's uneasy speaker in chief is doing something unexpected in his third term: embracing grand-scale oratory with fervor.
By now, Mr. Bloomberg, plain-spoken and Boston-accented, has become an inescapable voice on the soundtrack of New York, hectoring and praising its citizens in news conferences and television interviews, as he did during Tropical Storm Irene and has done throughout the Occupy Wall Street encampment. 
His recent stabs at formal speechmaking, however, are strikingly different -- forceful, sweeping and at times personal.
Summoning a combination of language and emotion that belies his reputation as an impassive number cruncher, Mr. Bloomberg has championed same-sex marriage, promoted artistic freedom in China, defended a proposed Muslim center in Lower Manhattan and implored federal officials to stop bickering and start acting to shore up the economy.
In the process, a man elected for his business acumen, not his eloquence behind a lectern, seems to be finding his voice and, after a decade in office, articulating a thoroughly Bloombergian vision of New York: at once libertarian and progressive, a capital of self-expression and personal freedom, teeming with noisy, sometimes divisive debates that add to its allure rather than detract from it.
''Near equality,'' he said in a speech about same-sex marriage, ''is no equality.''
About the Muslim center, he said this: ''We would be untrue to the best part of ourselves if we said no.''
And about an artist detained by the Chinese government, he declared that ''freedom's march is not always straight but it is always forward.''
Just this past Tuesday, Mr. Bloomberg flew to Washington to give a much-discussed speech on fiscal responsibility and the federal government. Declaring himself ''a concerned citizen,'' he proposed tax and spending changes, called on Congress and the White House to set aside partisanship in the national interest, and declared: ''The future of the greatest country in the world rests in our own hands. Let's not screw it up.''
Mr. Bloomberg, of course, rarely shies from speaking his mind, a quality that has long grated and gratified New Yorkers in equal measures. But in these lengthy and lofty speeches, even those closest to the mayor sense a newfound liberation -- from worries about polls (which remain middling), re-election (impossible) or the White House (a dream abandoned).
It is a striking shift for Mr. Bloomberg, 69, whose reputation as a bureaucratic maestro has been dented by a series of managerial missteps, leaving the administration eager to burnish his legacy and elevate him above the daily dramas of municipal government.
And with city money and other resources scarce, the mayor is spending a currency that costs nothing: his own voice, amplified by a national platform that his aides sense has been insufficiently exploited.
Mr. Bloomberg, who has conceded that writing is not his forte, largely leaves it to his staff to draft his speeches. But he surprised his aides late last year when he grabbed a yellow legal pad during a 15-hour flight from Hong Kong to New York and wrote most of a major speech about how Washington had mishandled the economic recovery.
''It's time to take a step back and ask ourselves,'' he wrote, ''when did success become a bad word in America?''
The next day, in City Hall, he handed the speech to a somewhat startled deputy mayor, Howard Wolfson. ''Take a look,'' the mayor told him. ''Tell me what you think.''
As the speech was revised by his staff, the mayor scrawled wording suggestions in the margins and between paragraphs, employing circles and arrows, capital letters and cursive writing. ''Work in Reagan,'' he jotted down at one point. At another, he scribbled, ''People like Henry Ford.'' In December, when Mr. Bloomberg delivered the speech at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, Reagan and Ford made cameo appearances in the text.
Agenda-setting oratory arrived relatively late in the Bloomberg mayoralty. At the start of his tenure, only months after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, the mayor ''was focused on putting New York back on track, not maximizing the bully pulpit,'' said Edward Skyler, a former deputy mayor who oversaw Mr. Bloomberg's speechwriting until 2007.
Mr. Bloomberg gradually warmed to daily news conferences, where he eagerly held court, fielding questions from reporters and riffing on the news of the day. Speeches, usually tied to policy announcements and ceremonial events, generally remained short or conversational.
A short-lived flirtation with a 2008 presidential run brought sporadic policy speeches -- on gun control, immigration and nonpartisanship -- that conveyed his common-sense values, but little of his passion.
The intense national debate during the summer of 2010 over the proposed Islamic center, to include a mosque in a building only blocks from ground zero, did much to change that.
The mayor, the first major public figure to express forceful support for the project, insisted on giving a rousing speech that he tinkered with and tweaked endlessly, even on the 10-minute ferry ride out to Governors Island, where he delivered it.
In an unapologetic tone, he argued that the government had no right to tell a religious group where to pray, and that tolerance was at the core of New York life.
He was surprised and heartened by the public response, especially when a hulking American soldier approached him at a restaurant and told him that he agreed with every word.
''He has seen the impact his words can have when he lays out his case eloquently and in a meaningful setting,'' Mr. Skyler said. ''There are times when a daily press conference just won't carry the message the way a well-crafted speech can when delivered at the right time and place.''
In Mr. Bloomberg's City Hall, a small team of speechwriters, overseen by Mr. Barry and Mr. Wolfson, labor over his words. They are careful to employ the rhythm and style of his everyday speech pattern: sentences are short, punchy and direct. ''He is not Ted Kennedy, with extra-long sentences and 10 clauses,'' Mr. Barry said.
Mr. Bloomberg's biggest complaint to his speechwriters? ''That we haven't hammered it home enough,'' Mr. Barry said. ''He adds a sentence that says something more forcefully and efficiently.''
So there are lines like this: ''We can never take that freedom for granted -- never.'' So the mayor declared in his remarks about the detained Chinese artist, Ai Weiwei, who was prevented by his government from attending the installation of one of his sculptures in Manhattan.
Again and again, Mr. Bloomberg celebrates New York's public disputes, even the two-month-old Occupy Wall Street protest, though he has struggled over how to balance the free-speech rights of demonstrators in Lower Manhattan with the concerns of annoyed neighbors.
''Our city is a cacophony of voices -- bustling, jarring, provocative,'' Mr. Bloomberg said in the Ai Weiwei speech in May. ''We are a marketplace of ideas, where all are welcome to debate, and argue, and even to agree.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DETAILS: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's chief speechwriter, Francis S. Barry, above, considers his boss's rhythm and style. But the mayor isn't shy about scribbling revisions. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 RHETORIC: Mr. Bloomberg working on a speech with Deputy Mayor Howard Wolfson, left, and Stu Loeser, his press secretary. In his third term, the mayor has come to embrace oratory. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); WRITERS (78%); POLITICS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (66%); TAX LAW (66%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (66%); MARRIAGE (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



597 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Arab League Suspends Syria Over Brutality

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR; Anthony Shadid contributed reporting from Qatar, and Liam Stack from Cairo.

 BODY:
CAIRO -- The Arab League moved to suspend Syria's membership on Saturday, accusing the government of President Bashar al-Assad of defying an agreement to stop the violent repression of demonstrators, and it threatened economic and political sanctions if he did not comply.
In acting against Syria, a core member of the Arab League, the group took another bold step beyond what had been a long tradition of avoiding controversy. Alarmed by the region-spanning upheaval of the Arab Spring demonstrations, league delegates said they were trying to head off another factional war like Libya's, in which the group took the unprecedented step of approving international intervention.
Syria's formal suspension is to start in four days, offering what senior Arab League officials described as a last chance for Mr. Assad to carry out a peace agreement his government had accepted. The plan called for the Syrian government to halt the violence directed toward civilians, to withdraw all its security forces from civilian areas and to release tens of thousands of political prisoners. 
Throughout the meeting, the Syrian ambassador, Youssef Ahmed, kept shouting that the move was illegal because such a decision had to be unanimous, participants said. He later repeated the claim on state television and accused the league of being ''subordinate to American and Western agendas.'' Nabil el-Araby, the Arab League's secretary general, pushed the initiative to a vote, with 18 of the league's 22 members supporting the action, Yemen and Lebanon opposing, Iraq abstaining and Syria not voting at all.
''We are hoping for a daring move from Syria to halt the violence and to begin a real dialogue toward real reform,'' said Sheik Hamad bin Jassim bin Jabr al-Thani, the prime minister and foreign minister of Qatar, as well as the current league chairman.
Arab governments, seeking to reflect popular demand for democratic change, are trying to address the issue without prompting the violent downfall of the Syrian government or international military action, analysts said.
''They all want to appear democratic, proactive and standing up for people because they are so embattled at home,'' said Paul Salem, director of the Carnegie Middle East Center in Beirut, Lebanon.
Previously, when the Arab League was more of a dictators' club, cautious members like Egypt and Saudi Arabia put the brakes on any activism. But the uprisings appear to be rewriting that formula, with Qatar already buoyed by its success in pushing the envelope on Libya.
''The Qataris, as is their wont, are getting out in front and pushing the agenda without anybody able to slow them down because the Syrians are still killing people,'' Mr. Salem said.
United Nations figures put the death toll at 3,500 since the uprising started in March, with more than 100 civilians killed since Syria accepted the Arab League plan on Nov. 2.
President Obama praised the action on Saturday and promised to keep up pressure on Syria. ''After the Assad regime flagrantly failed to keep its commitments, the Arab League has demonstrated leadership in its effort to end the crisis and hold the Syrian government accountable,'' he said in a statement.
When the league moved in March to approve international intervention to protect civilians in Libya, a step that led to NATO airstrikes, it was acting against a small, unpopular member of the organization. But Syria is a core member of the league, and the action on Saturday was surely a blow to Syria's self-image as ''the beating heart of Arabism.''
The organization was trying to walk a tightrope between bringing pressure to bear without bringing foreign military intervention, Sheik Hamad said. ''Syria is a dear country to all of us, so it pains us to take this decision,'' he said, adding, ''We want to find a solution to the problem within an Arab framework.''
Diplomats involved said that Algeria was particularly outspoken in trying to give the Syrians even four more days to avoid repeating the Libyan example, but it was not alone. ''They don't want some sort of a blank check that is given to the Security Council to try to take this issue in hand,'' said one Arab diplomat involved in the negotiations, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of diplomatic concerns. ''Some people are saying that if the regime comes under intense pressure from the Arab side, then they will make some changes.''
Analysts said the move certainly set the stage for greater international intervention, including broader sanctions, without endorsing it immediately.
Although the action on Saturday brings such a reckoning closer, the international opinion has been divided about Syria. The United Nations Security Council has been unable to agree on any actions other than issuing weak statements of condemnation.
The Arab League resolution also says economic and political sanctions can be applied, though it did not specify any, and it called for Arab states still keeping ambassadors in Damascus, Syria's capital, to withdraw them.
The suspension and threatened sanctions come at a difficult time economically for Syria, with American, European and Turkish officials saying that they believe that the economy remains Mr. Assad's greatest vulnerability.
European diplomats say a European embargo on Syrian oil has devastated that sector, reducing oil production by as much as 75 percent. Syria's oil exports represented anywhere from 15 to 35 percent of the state budget, and more than 90 percent of those exports went to Europe. The diplomats say that the Syrian government has not paid foreign oil companies since August, and that Chinese workers have recently begun leaving the oil fields north of Deir al-Zour for home.
Sheik Hamad and other participants repeatedly emphasized that it was up to Syria to reverse the decision by carrying out the peace plan. Both frustration with Syria and personal animosity toward President Assad, particularly from Qatar's leaders, helped drive the Arab League decision, participants said.
The Arab League also called for a meeting of Syrian opposition leaders in Cairo in three days to forge some sort of consensus on negotiations with the Assad government. That, too, is an attempt to put added pressure on Syria, since up until now the opposition has been bitterly divided about whether to engage with the government.
Some opposition figures inside Syria worried about the repercussions of the Arab League's decision. Louay Hussein, a prominent dissident in Damascus, said he thought the suspension would have little effect on Mr. Assad's leadership itself.
''The more the pressure increases from outside, the more the regime turns violent,'' said Mr. Hussein, who has not aligned himself with the Syrian National Council, an opposition bloc based abroad. ''The suspension won't provide any positive result. The regime has one aim, controlling power, so suspending its membership is worthless.''
In Damascus, a crowd reacted angrily to the resolution, attacking the Saudi Embassy, witnesses said. But outside the Arab League's offices, near the heart of the Egyptian uprising in Cairo's Tahrir Square, a group of about 100 protesters claiming common cause with Syrian demonstrators said they had hoped for more from the group: that it would call for President Assad to step down. Abdel Fattah al-Allawi, 23, who wore a Syrian flag draped over his shoulders as he protested, said he worried that the suspension might have the opposite of the desired effect.
''They agreed last time to stop the killing,'' he said, ''and they killed even more people.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters with a sign reading ''Death to You'' burned a picture of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria outside the Arab League offices in Cairo on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMR NABIL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (94%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (91%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) SYRIA (96%); LEBANON (93%); QATAR (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); EGYPT (91%); IRAQ (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



598 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE LONG RUN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2805 words

HEADLINE: After a Romney Deal, Profits and Then Layoffs

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO; Kitty Bennett and Christopher Gregory contributed reporting.

 BODY:
By the green-hued yardsticks of Wall Street, the 1990s buyout of an Illinois medical company by Mitt Romney's private equity firm was a spectacular success.
Mr. Romney's company, Bain Capital, sent in a team of 10 turnaround experts from Boston to ferret out waste, motivate executives and study untapped markets.
By the time the Harvard M.B.A.'s from Bain were finished, sales at the medical company, Dade International, had more than doubled. The business acquired two of its rivals. And Mr. Romney's firm collected $242 million, a return eight times its investment.
But an examination of the Dade deal shows the unintended human costs and messy financial consequences behind the brand of capitalism that Mr. Romney practiced for 15 years. 
At Bain Capital's direction, Dade quadrupled the money it owed creditors and vendors. It took steps that propelled the business toward bankruptcy. And in waves of layoffs, it cut loose 1,700 workers in the United States, including Brian and Christine Shoemaker, who lost their jobs at a plant in Westwood, Mass. Staggered, Mr. Shoemaker wondered, ''How can the bean counters just come in here and say, Hey, it's over?''
Mr. Romney's career at Bain Capital, which he owned and ran as chief executive, is a cornerstone of his campaign for the Republican presidential nomination -- a credential, he argues, that showcases the management skills and business acumen that America needs to revive a stalled economy. Creating jobs, Mr. Romney says, is exactly what he knows how to do.
The White House, though, is already preparing a less flattering portrayal, trying to frame Mr. Romney's record at Bain as evidence that he would pursue slash and burn economics and that his business career thrived by enriching the elite at the expense of the working class.
From 1984 to 1999, Mr. Romney and his deputies made fortunes by investing in, acquiring and then selling about 150 companies. It was high-stakes work that shaped Mr. Romney's values and views, taught him the art of salesmanship and negotiation and took him deep inside the boardrooms and factories of American business.
Because financial data for many of the acquisitions are not publicly available, it is difficult to fully tally the wins and losses, the jobs created and the jobs eliminated on Mr. Romney's watch. But the experience with Dade, Bain's biggest transaction at the time, shows how Bain managed its investments, structuring deals so it would be hard for Mr. Romney and his partners not to come out ahead.
Bain and a small group of investors bought Dade in 1994 with mostly borrowed money, limiting their risk. They extracted cash from the company at almost every turn -- paying themselves nearly $100 million in fees, first for buying the company and then for helping to run it. Later, just after Mr. Romney stepped down from his role, Bain took $242 million out of the business in a transaction that, according to bankruptcy documents and several former Dade officials, weakened the company.
Even some people who benefited from that payday and found it reasonable at the time now question it. ''You would have to say, looking back, that it was too large, because it pushed us into bankruptcy,'' said Robert W. Brightfelt, a former Dade president who collected more than $1 million.
Bain Capital declined to comment specifically on the Dade acquisition, but cited a long history of improving companies' performance in both ''good and challenging economic conditions.'' A campaign spokeswoman, Andrea Saul, defended Mr. Romney's tenure at Bain, saying that ''while not every business was successful, the firm had an excellent overall track record and created jobs with well-known companies.''
In recent years, Mr. Romney has acknowledged having second thoughts about some of the deals he drove, saying his post-Bain career in government had sensitized him to the consequences of his decisions as a businessman.
But Romney the candidate can still frequently sound like Romney the C.E.O. On the campaign trail, he has taken a tough-love approach to the economy, suggesting that the best remedy for the housing market is to allow foreclosures to ''hit the bottom''; railing against wasteful spending by the government-backed solar company Solyndra; and arguing that companies with poor strategies, like General Motors, should be allowed to go bankrupt, without a federal bailout.
It was the same approach he took with Bain, as he explained in an interview with The New York Times in 2007, when asked about layoffs at the companies he bought.
''Sometimes the medicine is a little bitter,'' he said, ''but it is necessary to save the life of the patient.''
Quick Riches
In the early 1990s, as the American economy rebounded from a recession, the biggest names in the buyout business hungrily eyed Dade, then a little-known maker of medical technology based in Deerfield, Ill.
It was ripe for a takeover. Its main product, copy-machine-size units that ran blood tests in hospitals, laboratories and doctors' offices, was widely used but rife with problems. Dade's owner, the giant health care company Baxter International, was ready to dump its aging diagnostic division.
Bain impressed Baxter's management with its vision for how to fix the ailing business. Mr. Romney, who began Bain Capital in 1983, prided himself on turning around companies like Dade -- not just polishing them for sale, as their quick-buck Wall Street colleagues did.
It was the Bain Way, reflecting the firm's roots as a spinoff of the venerable consulting firm where Mr. Romney had been a star performer, Bain & Company. At age 36, Mr. Romney was asked by the founder, William W. Bain Jr., to jump into the relatively new, risky and extraordinarily profitable business of private equity.
The idea was tantalizing: raise money from a pool of investors, like wealthy families and public pensions; buy a struggling company using a small amount of cash and a lot of financed debt; improve its operations; and then sell it for a profit.
By marrying traditional financial engineering with management consulting, Bain Capital produced much higher returns than its rivals.
''They were unusual in doing that in the '80s,'' said Steven N. Kaplan, a professor of finance at the University of Chicago, who has studied the private equity business. ''Romney figured it out, and everyone else copied it.''
Bain Capital was a partnership, but there was no question who was in charge: as the owner of all the voting stock, Mr. Romney controlled the profits and the power.
He did not act like a big shot -- he bypassed his secretary to make photocopies himself and left the building to buy himself lunch. But his values prevailed: he insisted on cheap, spartan office decorations (the original desks contained no wood) and introduced fines for executives who arrived late to meetings (when he once had to pay a $20 penalty, he looked physically pained, a co-worker recalled).
Colleagues remember him as a heavily perspiring, deeply anxious presence for much of the first year, constantly worried that he might tarnish the good name of Bain & Company by fumbling at Bain Capital.
''There was enormous pressure on Mitt not to have any bad investments,'' recalled Geoffrey S. Rehnert, an early managing director at Bain Capital. The message from Bain & Company was ''don't do anything that embarrasses us.''
Mr. Romney did not. In just a few years, Bain Capital made eye-popping sums of money in deal after deal -- ''the golden goose'' that was laying ''golden eggs,'' as he would later call it.
Mr. Romney nurtured startups like the fledgling office supply chain Staples, at times over the objections of skeptical Bain partners. Its 1986 investment of about $2 million netted Bain Capital $13 million.
Some of the first buyouts were even more lucrative. Bain Capital earned $34 million, 34 times its 1986 investment, in Calumet Coach, a manufacturer of medical equipment, for example. It made $55 million, 16 times its 1990 investment, in the Gartner Group, a technology research firm, according to documents sent to potential investors.
Young executives became wealthy overnight. ''It was a heady experience,'' Mr. Rehnert remembered. ''It was life altering, because we could pay down mortgages or buy bigger houses or new cars at a stage in life when those were big luxuries, ahead of our peers.''
As Bain Capital expanded, Mr. Romney cut back his travel to the headquarters of companies, assigning to lower-level executives the task of scouring balance sheets and interviewing managers. But he reviewed the numbers and signed off on major acquisitions, like the Dade purchase.
''He certainly approved the deal, understood it, had presentations made to him regarding it,'' recalled Scott Garrett, Dade's chief executive at the time. ''He became quite knowledgeable about the business.''
In the waning days of 1994, a small group of investors led by Bain Capital, including Goldman Sachs, paid $450 million for Dade. Bain invested about $30 million.
Dade employees could always tell when Bain Capital executives were in town: their bosses worked longer hours.
''The thing Bain brought was urgency,'' Mr. Brightfelt said. ''It was 24 hours a day. It never stopped.''
At Dade's headquarters, the men from Bain -- young, nattily dressed Bostonians -- exerted themselves in ways big and small as the new owners. They took a majority of seats on the board of directors. They interviewed candidates for high-level jobs. They negotiated crucial contracts with suppliers. And they requested reams of data.
In 1995, Bain officials debated whether Dade should buy a competitor, a diagnostics division of DuPont Medical Products that owned technology vital to Dade's future. Some Bain executives advocated quickly selling off Dade for a tidy profit. Others counseled patience, arguing that Bain could collect even more by investing in the company for a few years.
Mr. Romney, in Bain's boardroom in Boston, listened intently to both sides and rendered a verdict: Dade should acquire the DuPont unit. Mr. Romney ''wanted to double down on Dade,'' Mr. Garrett recalled.
In back-to-back acquisitions, Dade bought the DuPont diagnostics division in 1996 and a German medical testing company, Behring, in 1997, whose products replaced or improved upon Dade's.
Renamed Dade Behring, it became an industry leader, just as Bain Capital had intended. With its overseas acquisition, the company's labor force swelled to 7,400 workers.
The business invested in and refined products, like a test that rapidly detects whether a heart attack has occurred, that became widely used. From 1995 to 1998, Dade's annual sales rose to $1.3 billion from $614 million. Its assets grew to $1.5 billion from $551 million. But another number was climbing just as fast -- Dade's long-term liabilities, which surged to $816 million from $298 million.
Layoffs and Cutbacks
Cost-cutting became a mantra inside the company. After his employer, DuPont, was bought by Dade, William T. Mowrey, a field engineer, said his generous pension plan was replaced by a 401(k); his salary was cut by $1 an hour, costing him $2,000 a year in income. When he filed for overtime, he said, his new bosses refused to pay it. ''They were just trying to milk as much out of us as they could,'' he said.
Mr. Mowrey, now 54, quit. Many workers, like Mr. Shoemaker, the Dade employee in Westwood, and his wife, a temporary employee at the same plant, did not leave on their own terms. When they lost their jobs in 1997, they had to abandon plans to buy their first home together. ''It created a lot of stress,'' said Mr. Shoemaker, 59, who had earned more than $80,000 a year.
For some, the emotional effects of the layoffs outweighed the financial repercussions. Soon after Dade bought the DuPont unit, it closed a plant in Puerto Rico; all but a few of its nearly 300 workers were laid off.
Arsenio Muniz Rosado, a 51-year-old father who had spent 23 years at the plant, starting out as a groundskeeper, sank into a debilitating depression. Still jobless six months after he was let go, he tried to commit suicide with a bottle full of Xanax pills. It was the first of several attempts.
For all intents and purposes, he said of the plant, ''I died in there.''
Cindy Hewitt, a human resources manager, had been instructed to persuade about a dozen of Mr. Rosado's co-workers to move to Miami, where Dade had another plant.
Not long after the workers arrived, the company said it would close that factory, too. Ms. Hewitt tried to help several workers return to Puerto Rico, but she said Dade insisted that they first repay thousands of dollars of moving costs. ''They were treated horribly,'' she said. ''There was absolutely no concern for the employees. It was truly and completely profit-focused.''
Ms. Hewitt said she was so disillusioned by the experience that she left the corporate world.
Executives involved in the decisions said that to make Dade a success, they had combined companies in need of overhaul. And the mergers created redundant work forces that had to be winnowed.
''It's not done because they love cutting jobs,'' said Mark Wolsey-Paige, a former senior vice president at Dade. ''It ultimately made those companies stronger.''
He added: ''Something even worse would have happened if they had remained as they were before Bain bought them. It would have been a steady stream of cuts and layoffs.''
Tipping Into Bankruptcy
By 1998, Mr. Romney and his restless colleagues at Bain began looking for a way to cash out of the firm's investment in Dade.
A hefty offer arrived. Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, a rival buyout firm, proposed buying Dade Behring for $1.9 billion, according to documents filed in the bankruptcy case. But Bain executives rejected it, disappointed by the price, the documents indicate.
Bain settled on a common tactic in private equity: In April 1999, it pushed Dade to borrow hundreds of millions of dollars to buy half of Bain's shares in the company -- and half of those of its investment partners.
Bain pocketed the $242 million. Goldman received $121 million. Top Dade executives got $55 million, records show. The total payout to shareholders reached $420 million -- nearly as much as the purchase price for Dade.
The money was hard to resist, acknowledged Mr. Brightfelt, the former Dade president. ''We were all glad to get some cash out,'' he said, ''and we thought we deserved it.''
A few months before the payout, in February 1999, Mr. Romney retired from Bain Capital to oversee the Olympic Games in Salt Lake City. He nevertheless benefited from the transaction, a financial disclosure form indicates. It shows that until at least 2001, he owned 16.5 percent of the Bain Capital partnership responsible for the Dade investment.
Even as the investors prospered, Dade cut 367 more jobs in 1999, documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission show.
The strategy of sharply increasing Dade's debt alarmed several executives. Mr. Garrett, the former chief executive of Dade who stood to gain from the transaction, said he had argued unsuccessfully against it.
''It was too aggressive,'' Mr. Garrett said. ''It was done right up to the limit of what the company could borrow.''
With the amount of money that Dade owed to creditors and vendors at nearly $2 billion, some executives worried that the company would have little maneuvering room if its financial situation suddenly deteriorated.
Soon enough, it did. Interest rates rose, increasing Dade's debt payments. The value of the euro, then a new currency, slid, reducing Dade's European revenue. And a new distribution center had unexpected delays.
Creditors, unsettled by deteriorating finances and high debts, began to pounce. More layoffs followed. And in August of 2002, Dade filed for bankruptcy protection.
The creditors threatened litigation against Bain and its investment partners, accusing them of ''professional negligence'' and ''unjust enrichment,'' according to bankruptcy documents. Bain and the other investors argued that the claims were baseless, but agreed to forgo about $68 million owed to them by Dade. And seven years after buying the company, Bain forfeited its remaining ownership stake.
Dade emerged from bankruptcy two months later and the stock soon began trading publicly.
Over the next four years, its revenues and share price surged, and in 2007, Siemens, the German conglomerate, paid $7 billion to buy Dade Behring. The Dade name disappeared, but the company survived.
Bain's strategy, as painful as it was with plant closings and layoffs, had ultimately worked, executives said. The bankruptcy ''does muddy the story,'' said Mr. Wolsey-Paige, the former Dade executive. ''Over all,'' he said, ''it was very positive.''
The Long Run: Articles in this series are exploring the lives and careers of the Republican and Democratic candidates for president in 2012.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mitt Romney cites his time as a private equity firm manager. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID L. RYAN/THE BOSTON GLOBE) (A1)
A BUSINESS PAIRING: Mitt Romney, left, with William W. Bain Jr. in 1990. Mr. Romney began his rise in business working for Mr. Bain, who encouraged him to move into the private equity firm that he ran for 15 years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTINE SCHIAVO/THE BOSTON GLOBE)
HUMAN COSTS: Cindy Hewitt, a human resources manager, said she was so disillusioned dealing with workers in a Bain Capital downsizing that she left the corporate world. Arsenio Muniz Rosado, who lost his job in Puerto Rico, tried several times to commit suicide. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MEG ROUSSOS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CHRISTOPHER GREGORY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A26) CHARTS: How One Company Performed Under Bain Capital: Mitt Romney's private equity firm, Bain Capital, earned an 800 percent return on its investment in Dade, an Illinois medical company it owned for seven years.Though the company's performance improved in its years under Bain, it laid off hundreds of workers and accumulated debt that propelled it toward bankruptcy in 2002. (Source: SEC filings) (A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); SALES & SELLING (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); GREGORY L CHRISTOPHER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); PUERTO RICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



599 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Criticizes Exxon Mobil On Kurdistan Oil Pursuits

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- A deputy prime minister overseeing the oil industry has issued a sharp rebuke to the largest American oil company operating in Iraq, Exxon Mobil, over the company's reported efforts to expand its oil holdings into the semiautonomous Kurdish region in the country's north.
The statement from the official, Hussein al-Shahristani, said the central government had cautioned Exxon against pursuing oil deals in Kurdistan, which the government says will remain illegal until long-awaited rules can be worked out to split revenues among Iraq's fractious regions. 
Mr. Shahristani's office issued the statement a day after The Financial Times reported that Exxon, based in Irving, Tex., and the United States' largest petroleum company, had become the first major international oil operator to sign a contract in the Kurdistan region -- a move the company has neither confirmed nor denied.
If Exxon did indeed sign a deal in Kurdistan, it is wading into a central controversy that has dogged Iraq since the American invasion.
Oil has long been the heart of Iraq's wealth, and the invasion threw control of the rich reserves into question, exacerbating longstanding enmity between the Kurds and other Iraqis. Under President George W. Bush, the passage of an oil law to split revenues was considered a crucial benchmark to bring long-term peace to Iraq.
Many smaller oil companies, including American ones like Marathon and Hunt of Texas, have signed contracts with the Kurdistan Regional Government. But the larger companies had held back to ensure they retain deals for fields in the south.
Michael Klare, a professor at Hampshire College and an authority on the Iraqi oil industry, speculated that Exxon might be betting that Iraq would not make good on threats of punishment, recognizing that the company's investment elsewhere in the country was crucial to its economic revival.
''Both Exxon and the Iraqis understand that Iraq has no hope of reaching its lofty goals of higher oil output without Exxon's involvement,'' Professor Klare said. ''Threats to punish the company for investing in the Kurdish area are hollow.''
Critics of the oil companies that went to Kurdistan after the overthrow of Saddam Hussein's government say they are pursuing development in a manner that, far from contributing to stability through economic growth, has heightened ethnic tensions between Arabs and Kurds.
Exxon's spokesman, Alan T. Jeffers, said Saturday in an e-mail that the company would not comment on whether it had signed an oil deal in Kurdistan, or respond to the Iraqi deputy prime minister's statement. The Kurdistan Regional Government also had no immediate statement, though its official Web site prominently posted, without clarification, the text of The Financial Times article.
For now at least, the Iraqi government appears to be taking a strong, but somewhat vague, stance. ''The Iraqi government will deal with any company that violates the law the same way it dealt with similar companies before,'' the deputy prime minister's statement Saturday said.
In the past, the government has excluded oil companies active in Kurdistan from new auctions elsewhere in Iraq. It was unclear whether the statement implied any threat to revoke Exxon's existing contracts, which would be significant. A spokesman for Mr. Shahristani declined to elaborate.
The actual legal argument against any deal remains a matter of controversy. Iraq's Constitution allows regions to strike their own oil deals, but the central government says there is no current law spelling out how that can happen.
Beyond the ripples that oil deals send through Iraq's fragile politics, they are important for bringing new oil to world markets -- but only if the relations between companies and the government go smoothly enough to allow investment.
The State Department and the military have sought to tamp down antagonism between Kurdistan and the central government for years, and American troops have died trying to keep the peace along that internal border.
With the American withdrawal imminent, concerns are mounting that ethnic tensions could again threaten stability.
Under a 2009 contract, Exxon is leading a consortium developing one of Iraq's largest oil fields, outside Basra near the Persian Gulf.
Exxon and its partners agreed to invest $50 billion over seven years to increase output by about two million barrels of oil per day there, at West Qurna Phase 1, bringing more new oil to market than the United States currently produces in the Gulf of Mexico. Margins, though, are low. Kurdistan offers more lucrative production-sharing agreements, allowing the company to earn a larger share of revenues and to count more of the crude on its books, which helps boost stock prices.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Exxon has contracts in southern Iraq but would not comment on reports of deals in the north. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ATEF HASSAN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (94%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (62%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (97%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (71%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (97%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (97%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) TEXAS, USA (79%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011



600 of 1324 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BLOCK BY BLOCK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: An Avenue Arrives, Tourists and All

BYLINE: By CHRISTIAN L. WRIGHT

 BODY:
DEPENDING on the time of day, DeKalb Avenue in Brooklyn can look like a sepia-toned photograph from the 19th century, a chic international playground, or, at its best, the New York City melting pot at a nice, gentle simmer.
And plenty in between: lately, for instance, the TV show ''Pan Am'' has been filming on this avenue near Fort Greene Park.
The other Tuesday afternoon, a be-scarfed couple, West European expats, were finishing a late lunch at a chic cafe table just as a cacophonous group of schoolchildren were beating a path to the Good Joy Chinese restaurant for ketchup-drenched French fries in little paper takeout boxes.
A well-heeled mother with an infant strapped to her chest popped into Elly's Market to pick up a few things from shelves that were as neat as a pin. A man in his 60s casually leaned his bicycle against the front window of the Pratt Area Community Council's storefront and, without locking up the bike, went inside. Just then a GrayLine Tours double-decker cruised slowly west along DeKalb, with tourists on the top deck, popping their heads up like baby chicks under a heat lamp. 
''Fort Greene has become a real global destination,'' said Anthony Williams, an agent with Corcoran and a self-described Brooklyn boy who's been living here for the most part of 30 years. ''You see all the communities mingling. It's like our own Greenwich Village.''
The 10-block swath of DeKalb from St. Felix Street to Vanderbilt Avenue is anchored at the western end by Brooklyn Technical High School, the right-angled behemoth with a pointy radio tower on the roof that's one of the country's leading public schools. Among its alumni, it counts a NASA astronaut, at least one four-star general and ''The Incredible Hulk,'' a k a Lou Ferrigno.
Across the street, you can see the current students making good use of Fort Greene Park, 33 rolling acres designated in 1847 as Brooklyn's first park and redesigned 20 years later by Frederick Law Olmsted. Some groups head out in their numbered jerseys and shinguards to play soccer on the dirt pitch that's also used by residents for fairly competitive weekend games of football. There are busy public tennis courts here, too.
The park takes up four blocks of the north side of DeKalb, and rises above street level, so that its lawns and walking paths and pin oaks are a few steps up from the uneven sidewalk. The handsome brownstones standing along the south side of DeKalb, from South Elliott Place to Cumberland Street, face the park and have unobstructed views of Olmsted's landscaping.
At the end of August, the well-kept five-story house at No. 154 was sold for about $2.1 million by Aguayo & Huebener Realty, a boutique agency that opened in 1998 and specializes in Brooklyn.
Roslyn Huebener, who lives just south of DeKalb, said, ''I bought here 25 years ago for the beauty and for the close-knit quality of the neighborhood.'' Since then, ''as word spread, there's been a steady increase in value in Fort Greene. It's been unstoppable.''
Many of the stately houses that line part of DeKalb, adding to the quiet grandeur of the tree-shaded side streets, date to the early or mid-1800s. Here and there, just to the north and just to the south of DeKalb, you'll see pale clapboard houses or a columned front porch on a three-story wooden beauty, and get a whiff of the old South. The Landmarks Preservation Commission designated this part of Fort Greene as a historic district in 1978, inhibiting demolition and development and keeping local artisans -- chimney builders, iron casters, plaster workers -- very busy.
At the southeastern corner of the park on Saturdays, the Fort Greene Greenmarket sprouts up and extends a block north along Washington Place.
Farther east as DeKalb becomes more commercial, storefronts are occupied by small shops like Thirst Wine Merchants (No. 187) and restaurants like Dino (No. 222), while many of the residential buildings on the avenue have been divided into apartments, from top-floor garret to basement warren.
Ten years ago, when Darrell Cooper, a consultant in the legal field for electronic discovery, bought his studio apartment at No. 183, he paid $39,000 cash. ''I started looking in Manhattan but pricing was insane,'' said Mr. Cooper, 46. ''I had friends here. I liked it. It was diverse -- and I do mean in race and age -- with a lot going on. This spot was reachable and attainable.''
The building has since gone co-op and embarked upon significant capital improvements. Mr. Cooper, who bought two more units, is now the board president of the 181-183 DeKalb Owners Corporation. He may have to decamp to the West Coast for a new job, so he has reluctantly been talking to his broker, Carolyn Romberg of the Corcoran Group. She said he could list the original studio for $225,000. That's just shy of six times his investment (not counting the rental income).
Meanwhile, the business boom on the avenue is added value, as they like to say in marketing circles. From Cumberland Street to Vanderbilt Avenue, the concentrated array of restaurants would make Danny Meyer lick his chops.
The list includes Madiba, a South African spot that opened in 1999 on the corner of Carlton Avenue; iCi (opened 2004); and the General Greene (2008). Roman's, a sibling of Marlow & Sons in Williamsburg, came in 2010 and packs them in even on a torrential Tuesday night, and Tillie's coffeehouse (No. 248) has glowed with late-morning laptops since 1997. At the end of October, finishing touches were being applied to Walter's (No. 166, also out of Williamsburg), a brasserie.
Atlantic Terminal Mall, a few blocks to the south, is well established, with a Target and a DSW. The nearby Atlantic Yards development is bound to transform the area; the skeleton of the new arena for Jay-Z's basketball team, the Brooklyn Nets, is already up. But the area also supports the Brooklyn Academy of Music, Pratt Institute and the Brooklyn Flea.
Genevieve Platt, 39, lives on DeKalb and opened her tiny boutique Feliz (No. 185) in 2010. In less than 400 square feet designed by her partner (in business and in life), Gustavo Larizzati, she sells Spanish espadrilles, woven baskets from Senegal, Brooklyn-made soaps and the pillows she fashions out of vintage fabrics.
''The neighborhood is diverse, racially, economically and culturally,'' she said. ''I want this to feel approachable, for a mom with a baby or a single guy.
''Sometimes I do think it's a miracle that this is working.''
Correction: December 18, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The ''Block by Block'' column on Nov. 13, about DeKalb Avenue in Brooklyn, misstated the age and address of Darrell Cooper, a longtime resident there and board president of his co-op, the 181-183 DeKalb Owners Corporation. He is 46, not 42; and he bought units in No. 183, not 181. The article also described Mr. Cooper's job in the legal field incorrectly. It is in electronic discovery, not electronic recovery.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LOOK! OVER THERE!: A tour bus makes its way along DeKalb Avenue in Brooklyn.(RE1)
 A DIVERSE MENU: Clockwise from left: students ordering lunch at the Good Joy Chinese restaurant at 216 DeKalb Avenue. A view of the street from Fort Greene Park, a few steps up from the sidewalk. Tillie's, a coffeehouse at No. 248 that keeps the neighborhood wired. The General Greene at No. 229, one of many restaurants on DeKalb. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(RE4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); SPACE EXPLORATION (67%); HIGH SCHOOLS (63%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (63%); SOCCER (60%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011

 
