

601 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; EMPIRE STATE OF MIND; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 2875 words

HEADLINE: The Accidental Giant of Higher Education

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
Peter Applebome writes the Our Towns column for The Times.

 BODY:
NANCY L. ZIMPHER, the new chancellor of the State University of New York, is a woman with a plan. From 1998 to 2003, when she was chancellor of the University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, it was ''The Milwaukee Plan.'' From 2003 to May 2009, when she was president of the University of Cincinnati, it was ''UC/21.''
And for much of this year, Dr. Zimpher has been crisscrossing New York State, PowerPoint engaged, promoting ''The Power of SUNY,'' with its pragmatic and somewhat buzzy bullet points -- ''SUNY and the Entrepreneurial Century,'' ''SUNY and the Seamless Education Pipeline,'' ''SUNY and the World'' -- about the university as economic and community-building engine for tough times. Dr. Zimpher is somewhat famous in higher education as a tireless and creative marketer. 
''I have to say that if you planted me on Mars, this is what I would try to do,'' she said a few weeks back, after spending the morning touting ''The Power of SUNY'' to the staff of the Research Foundation, which administers more than $1 billion in university research funds. She then swore in a new student representative to SUNY's board of trustees, positively beaming when, without prodding, the student put her hand on the ''Power of SUNY'' brochure, in lieu of a Bible, in reciting her oath.
''My belief is that to move an organization forward you have to have a common, comprehensive and ambitious agenda,'' Dr. Zimpher said. ''It has to be aspirational. It has to move you. I think the full manifestation of SUNY is underexposed and underexploited. If people really knew and understood the difference these campuses make in their communities they would be amazed.''
But a funny -- and absurdly unlikely --thing happened on Dr. Zimpher's way to revamping and rebranding SUNY, the unloved colossus that is the biggest comprehensive system of public higher education in the country. The empowerment legislation that was the companion piece for the plan -- giving campuses greater autonomy, including the ability to set their own tuitions -- became the pivotal, ferociously contested boulder in the road in New York's seemingly endless budget impasse (which at press time remained unresolved).
Of the two most powerful men in Albany, one, Gov. David A. Paterson, who proposed the legislation, insisted that it be part of a deal tied to the state's 2010-11 budget. The other, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, was adamant that it never would be.
On one level, this has been a classic case of the warring duchies of Albany, of how an educational issue morphs into a political power struggle. But its issues are both distinctly national and parochial. On the one hand, it provides a condensed glimpse of many of the issues roiling public higher education nationally: access versus status, state control versus campus control, universities as centers of disinterested scholarship versus universities as economic engines, rising demand versus falling revenues. On the other, it is the latest and most conspicuous chapter in a battle over turf, money and, oh yes, education that began 62 years ago, when New York State reluctantly approved a system that has gone on to become the accidental giant of American higher education.
TWO things define the State University of New York. It's huge. And compared to its public peers, it's weird.
The numbers suggest a system that's borderline unmanageable -- 64 campuses, 7,660 degree programs, 88,000 faculty members, 465,000 students, a $10.7 billion budget, a campus within 20 miles of 97 percent of the state's population. Many of its campuses are anchors of farflung small communities that only locals could find on a map -- Fredonia, Delhi, Cobleskill, Potsdam. People know some campuses by reputation but not that they're part of SUNY -- Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan, Maritime College in the Bronx, and the colleges of agriculture and life sciences, human ecology, veterinary medicine, and industrial and labor relations at Cornell. Four are ambitious university centers with a national reputation: Stony Brook, Buffalo, Binghamton and Albany. Thirty are community colleges.
In a brand-name culture, SUNY is an awfully hard brand to define, especially when it's still often thought of as an upstate phenomenon in a state whose center of gravity is south in New York City and its suburbs.
But another reason that SUNY has struggled to forge an identity is because that was the idea from the start. New York was the last of the populous states to form a university system. SUNY was not founded until 1948 and over the strenuous objections of the state's powerful private colleges and universities. And it began with the stipulation that it would only ''supplement'' the private institutions and not compete with them. State legislators established an unfriendly board of regents and imposed the nation's strictest regulations on what the university could do. An informal prohibition on raising private funds meant that New York's state universities for decades grew without the endowments that supported campuses elsewhere. No wonder that a study in 1960 called SUNY a ''limping and apologetic enterprise.''
Virtually alone in the country, there was (and still is) no flagship institution, no Madison, Berkeley or Austin to provide a network of loyal supporters for years to come, no beloved Buckeyes, Huskies or Gators to create a common wellspring of good will. (SUNY's most conspicuous attempt to play in that league -- Binghamton's one trip to the N.C.A.A. Division I basketball tournament in 2009 -- ended in scandal, with arrests of several players, accusations of preferential treatment for athletes and the implosion of the program.) Add in that the City University of New York was there to suck up all the energy and attention for public education in the most populous and influential part of the state, and SUNY has been climbing uphill since its inception.
It prospered in flush times under Nelson Rockefeller but has been under siege of late. State and SUNY leaders repeatedly debate its mission, including the question of whether it could be seen as a great university system without its own Berkeley or the University of Virginia.
Still, not many of the moments has been more challenging than this one.
Since 2000, SUNY has had five interim, acting or full chancellors. It faces a budget meltdown with no bottom in sight, having lost $634 million in state support over the past three years. Those cuts come amid steadily growing demand for its services. Enrollment has increased by 25,000 over the past year, and even the downstate suburbanites who are most receptive to the appeal of private universities are taking long looks at the state's public ones as well.
It's true that on college message boards and in admissions buzz, SUNY doesn't get much love. ''Maryland, Virginia, Pennsylvania and Ohio all have excellent state flagships and are close to the northeastern private colleges. Where did NY go wrong?'' wrote one posting in March on the Web site College Confidential.
But almost all the SUNY campuses are seeing rising numbers of applicants as price and practicality loom larger than the perceived brand on the rear-window decal. Maybe in good times you didn't think twice about spending $50,000 a year for Lehigh or Colgate instead of $20,000 for comparable educations at Binghamton or Geneseo, but that has never been an option for people of limited means, and increasingly it's not an option for many of the affluent, either.
Enter ''The Power of SUNY,'' the result of Dr. Zimpher's Hillary Clinton-style listening tour of all 64 campuses, an exhaustive series of meetings across the state and a 200-member task force.
To be honest, the strategic plan is more broad statements of intent than nuts and bolts. But the plan, and the legislation meant to help put it into effect, reflect both the problems of the moment and SUNY's historical challenges. To address the former, Dr. Zimpher's plan, to the chagrin of many of SUNY's professors, is more about building the state's economy than it is about the traditional educational missions of higher education. ''There is a growing and welcome recognition that in a knowledge economy, institutions of higher education can -- and must -- be pivotal in generating growth and revitalizing communities,'' it begins.
There is talk of research but research translated into tangible, measurable results -- more patents issued, more grants won, more jobs created. SUNY StartUP is a program to invite entrepreneurs onto campuses to act as mentors. SUNY-INC (Incent New Companies) is supposed to link researchers at different campuses and companies in a development chain designed to speed up the process from concept to commercialization. SUNY is supposed to bring doctors, nurses and teachers to underserved urban and rural neighborhoods, and create a wellness network to establish statewide health goals and programs in areas like obesity, smoking cessation and the prevention of chronic disease. It is supposed to do groundbreaking research in renewable energy and work with the state's Smart Grid Consortium to drive down energy costs.
To Dr. Zimpher, who grew up on a small farm near the town of Gallipolis, Ohio, the daughter of educators, it's a powerful statement of what SUNY can do for New York and an inducement for state support.
''We don't really have an economic development plan for the State of New York, but if we did, it would look a lot like 'The Power of SUNY,' '' she said.
Her supporters say this is absolutely the right time to enunciate a vision that defines SUNY. ''New York north and west of Albany is a disaster area, even great cities like Rochester, so it's entirely appropriate to say the university has a mission beyond educating students,'' said Gerald Benjamin, a professor of political science at SUNY New Paltz. ''It's very important to have a plan while you're struggling to keep the ship afloat, so your plan isn't simply to keep the ship afloat.''
To many others, the plan has some good points but reflects a system in danger of forgetting its core mission of providing opportunity to students regardless of economic status. ''The strategic plan doesn't talk about educational missions, it doesn't talk about affordability or accessibility, there's very little about undergraduate education and keeping it affordable and accessible,'' said Phillip H. Smith, president of the powerful United University Professions union, which represents more than 34,000 academic and professional faculty members. ''It reflects an attempt to corporatize the university.''
Those issues and many others came to a head this summer in the debate over the plan's companion piece, the clunky-sounding Public Higher Education Empowerment and Innovation Act, giving SUNY and CUNY greater control over tuition, purchasing and public-private partnerships. Governor Paterson wants tuition-setting taken out of the state budget process, where it's forever at the mercy of the state's fiscal gyrations and where tuition increases go to Albany and often stay there. Instead, different campuses would establish different tuitions, with caps and added financial aid to cushion the blow to access.
To advocates, the effort to break the shackles that SUNY was born with has long been overdue. For the largest SUNY campus, the University at Buffalo, such self-determination is an essential part of its ambitious growth plan, ''UB 2020,'' which local officials say would create thousands of jobs, expand the campus to downtown and foster new ventures with industry.
Samuel L. Stanley Jr., president of Stony Brook University, said increased revenue from the legislation could enable the hiring of 400 new faculty members over the next decade. And Stony Brook's most generous donor, the hedge fund manager James Simons, has made a pledge of as much as $150 million, contingent on the passage of some form of the legislation.
But a prestigious flagship or a brand-name research university to some is a quasi-private school with unaffordable tuition to others. Critics in the union, the Assembly and the universities other than the largest research institutions see in this a new, tiered SUNY with higher tuition and campuses perceived to be better for those who can afford them and ones perceived as inferior for those who cannot.
Henry Steck, who teaches political science at SUNY Cortland and has written on SUNY's history, wrote to his colleagues during the height of the budget battles last month that if the legislation passed in its current form, ''I believe we will face the end of SUNY as we know it.'' He added: ''SUNY will move dramatically toward a 'privatized' university and SUNY will be (like UVa or UVt) 'public' more or less in name only in terms of its financial support. It would be as if we moved the cost of our K-12 public schools to the children and their families, with 'aid' for poor families.''
What SUNY should be doing, many of these critics say, is fighting for adequate financing and affordable tuition, not looking for higher tuition and private sources that will inevitably sap resources from the public contributions while expecting something in return. ''If we look at the public-private partnerships the university has entered into in the past, we see that not only have they not brought significant and continuing dollars into the university, but instead have caused a long-term drain on university revenues and financial resources,'' said Dr. Smith, the union president. ''My question is, Why is now any different than the past?''
That's a good question. And increasingly the answer seems to be: It's different because it's different. The way public higher education has traditionally been supported no longer seems to be working. Until 1963, SUNY had free tuition. Three decades ago, the state bore about 80 percent of the cost of running SUNY. Now it's more like 30 percent.
And it's not just SUNY. Books about public higher education these days have titles like ''Saving Alma Mater: A Rescue Plan for America's Public Universities,'' by James C. Garland, and ''Saving State U: Fixing Public Higher Education,'' by Nancy Folbre. Both argue that the economic trends buffeting public higher education will continue with state budgets under a long-term siege and other expenses -- elementary and secondary education, health care, prisons -- deemed more critical and less discretionary.
''The business model of higher education that has worked for a century isn't working anymore, and it needs to change,'' said Dr. Garland, a former colleague of Dr. Zimpher at Ohio State and the former president of Miami University in Oxford, Ohio. ''Is New York going to be able to meet the financial needs of future students? The answer is no. The money just isn't there. None of the forces depleting state resources are going away, and it's wishful thinking to think government can find the money to fund campuses at the level they once did.''
So maybe the new face of SUNY was the scene at its headquarters in May. That was when Mike Russo, director of government relations and regulatory affairs for Globalfoundries, a leading semiconductor manufacturer, was meeting with SUNY officials about the training and personnel needs of the $4.3 billion plant under construction near Albany. The plant is expected to create 1,400 technology jobs in its first phase, with perhaps more to come. Mr. Russo says the company is working not just with nearby community colleges and the nanotechnology institute at SUNY Albany, but also with the chancellor's office to identify potential workers throughout the SUNY system.
''Educational institutions are very parochial by nature,'' he said. ''They want to sell you their wares. It's the survival of the fittest. In order to change that you need more than a strategic plan; they're a dime a dozen. You need leadership that makes everyone feel they have a stake in it. And I tell you that's happened with SUNY over the past seven months.''
CHANCES are SUNY will never be reducible to a single brand. It's too many things to too many people with too many competing interests: to be accessible and to be elite, to be intellectual centers and to be job creators, to serve their communities and to (belatedly) compete with private universities that are its neighbors.
Still, if there's no single beloved campus, for some the hope remains that SUNY can morph into something more than the sum of its parts, though it's not clear whether the more tiered system that autonomy seems to foster would help the system build a common identity or blur it further.
''A lot of us still want New Yorkers to think of SUNY as their university, a part of our patrimony, like Ole Miss or the Texas Aggies,'' Dr. Steck said.
But then patrimony and the tug of the heart may be luxuries in the current Darwinian educational world. So despite the bruising battles this year, Dr. Zimpher is betting that in hard times, SUNY can find the identity its founders were half-heartedly groping toward six decades ago. ''We are the growth engine for New York,'' she said. ''We will yield a return on that investment and eventually enhance the taxpayers' ability to grow ourselves out of this deficit. Cut the engine loose, and let it do what it will for New York.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE PLANNER: Chancellor Nancy Zimpher, at the Albany campus. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ED29) DRAWINGS: With 64 institutions, the State University of New York is the largest comprehensive system of public higher education in the country. (DRAWING BY MEREDITH HAMILTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); BUDGETS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); LEGISLATION (65%); RELIGION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI (58%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN MILWAUKEE (84%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



602 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Feeling Gloomy? Maybe It's Time to Buy

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
BEFORE a market sell-off can reverse course, investor sentiment must plummet -- not soar. That may sound counterintuitive, but the accepted wisdom on Wall Street is that it's only after investors give up on stocks that prices can start to climb again.
The question is, have investors reached that point? 
After a market peak on April 23, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slumped as much as 16 percent, a slide classified as a correction but not a bear market, which is typically defined as a decline of 20 percent or more. After last week's gains, the index was 9 percent below its April peak.
Yet market strategists note that recent surveys of investor sentiment point to an unusually swift eruption of bearishness ever since fears of another economic downturn started pressuring stock prices in late April. On July 14, the Investors Intelligence adviser sentiment survey -- a widely followed gauge of the opinions of more than 100 independent investment newsletters -- found that for the first time since April 2009, there were more bears than bulls among newsletter advisers. The July 21 survey showed equal numbers of bears and bulls.
A similar study, released on July 8 by the American Association of Individual Investors, found that the percentage of individuals who classified themselves as bearish had jumped to more than 57 percent, up from 42 percent in the previous week.
Though this figure sank back to 45 percent last week, the July 8 reading represented the highest degrees of pessimism among investors since March 2009.
''Given how awful the situation actually was early last year, it is amazing that sentiment is as negative now as it was back then,'' said Edward Yardeni, president of Yardeni Research.
But is bearishness such a bad thing? Actually, no.
James B. Stack, editor of the InvesTech Market Analyst newsletter, based in Whitefish, Mont., pointed out that the July 8 study showed that the ratio of bears to bulls was greater than 2.7 to 1.
Historically, when the bear-to-bull ratio has risen above this level, the Dow Jones industrial average has posted gains of 5.4 percent and 11.4 percent, respectively, after three and six months, he noted in a recent report. To be sure, not all sentiment gauges are signaling that investors are throwing in the towel on stocks.
For example, in late 2008, at the height of the financial panic, the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX -- which measures investor expectations for market volatility -- rose to a record level of more than 80. But it is far from such heights today. In fact, it is now at 23, after a climb to 45 in late May.
And while investors in 401(k) retirement plans have signaled skittishness by reducing their equity allocations, their risk aversion isn't close to where it was when the market bottomed in March 2009. Still, many market strategists regard the market mood as being at extreme lows.
Perhaps what's most surprising isn't that stocks have climbed in periods of pessimism. Rather, it's worth noting the types of stocks that have thrived.
BRIAN G. BELSKI, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer, studied how various sectors of the market have performed in glum times over the past 20 years. Looking at the investor association's survey and using a different ratio -- that of bulls to bears -- he found that 12 months after that ratio declines a certain point below the historical average, the markets tend to take on a split personality.
On the one hand, a couple of traditionally defensive areas of the market -- health care and consumer staples companies, which aren't terribly dependent on a strong economy -- have traditionally done well 12 months after extreme pessimism sets in.
But two economically cyclical sectors of the market -- specifically, technology, and consumer discretionary l stocks -- have actually done better. Tech stocks in the S.& P. 500, for instance, have historically been up more than 14 percent one year after market pessimism has sunk to extreme lows.
Since market volatility began to soar in late April, the defensive areas of the market have lost the least. But if history is a guide, market bearishness may be telling investors not to just bet on stocks, but to broaden their strategy by investing in economically sensitive shares as well.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); US 401K PLANS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%)

COMPANY: CBOE HOLDINGS INC (61%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF INDIVIDUAL INVESTORS (55%)

TICKER: CBOE (NASDAQ) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (61%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) MONTANA, USA (69%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



603 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 332 words

PERSON: Kenny Guinn 

HEADLINE: Kenny Guinn, Ex-Governor Of Nevada, Dies at 73

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS (AP) -- Kenny Guinn, who was governor of Nevada during a prosperous era for a state now facing severe budget problems, died Thursday after falling from the roof of his home here while making repairs. He was 73. 
The authorities were investigating whether the death was from natural causes or an accident.
Mr. Guinn was a Democrat turned moderate Republican who served two terms as governor, from 1999 to 2007. The son of migrant fruit pickers who moved to Nevada from the San Joaquin Valley in California, he worked his way through college as a teacher.
''No matter where we went, my parents always made sure we went to school, even if it was a short period of time,'' Mr. Guinn told The Associated Press in 1999. ''I knew full well I wanted to do something besides what my family had been doing all those years.''
Mr. Guinn was elected in 1998 in his first bid for statewide office while drawing criticism that he was the hand-picked candidate of powerful special interests. By the time he left office, he had been ranked as one of the nation's best governors by Time magazine.
During his tenure he overhauled government agency operations, revamped budgeting and tax collections, pushed for a major student scholarship program, fought federal plans to bury nuclear waste in the desert outside Las Vegas and sought to diversify Nevada's casino-dependent economy.
He also oversaw the biggest tax increase in state history, then returned $300 million in excess revenues to residents.
Kenneth Carroll Guinn was born Aug. 24, 1936, in Garland, Ark., and was raised in Exeter, Calif. He attended almost 30 schools as his parents followed the crops.
He won a college football scholarship and received bachelor's and master's degrees in physical education from Fresno State University and a doctorate in education from Utah State University. He taught in Fresno and San Jose, Calif., while doing graduate work at Stanford. He moved to Las Vegas in 1964.
He is survived by his wife, Dema, and two sons.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kenny Guinn (PHOTOGRAPH BY CATHLEEN ALLISON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); GOVERNORS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); FARM LABOR (76%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TAX LAW (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (76%) NEVADA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



604 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; GUIDANCE COUNSELOR ACADEMIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Survival of the Fittest

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

 BODY:
THE class of 2014 began as a long, not-so-gray line outside the basketball arena, winding its way up the stairs onto the hardwood court. It was only June, yet about 1,390 first-year students -- plebes, they will be called -- were already reporting for class at the United States Military Academy, West Point.
Surrounded by Gothic architecture and the scenic cliffs of the Hudson highlands, the new cadets looked at first like bewildered freshmen at any New England campus. But look again. Each carried just one bag: the academy issues almost all their clothing, from underwear to black gym shorts to dress grays. And instead of sandals, many students wore black dress shoes beneath their cargo shorts and cutoffs, trying to break in the patent-leather part of their soon-to-be daily uniforms.
So began cadet basic training, the six-week crash course in soldiering that plebes know as Beast. In just their first day, they will get their hair cut and their tattoos inspected (no obscenities or gang insignia allowed). They will learn the basics of an about-face pivot and a proper salute. And they will taste a bracing mouthful of Army regimen. 
''Do not look at me!'' a female noncommissioned officer, a third-year student, barked at one of the anxious newbies. ''Eyes forward, cadet!''
A carefree college experience this is not.
So it should come as no surprise that the application process to West Point is a bit more demanding than for most universities. This is, after all, not just college, but a way of life. Tuition is free, but it comes with an obligation: five years of service after graduation. For many, deployment overseas will be part of the package.
The details are somewhat different but the broad picture is much the same at the nation's four other service academies: the Navy, in Annapolis, Md.; the Air Force, in Colorado Springs; the Coast Guard, in New London, Conn.; and the Merchant Marine, in Kings Point, N.Y. All require fitness tests and medical exams. All, except the Coast Guard Academy, require nominations, which usually come from members of Congress.
It was enough to make Holly DeWaters, the mother of Jonathan Garcia, a graduate of Somers High School in Lincolndale, N.Y., who is attending the Naval Academy this fall, feel as if she needed a team of assistants. ''I cannot imagine a student doing that alone,'' Ms. DeWaters says.
BEFORE YOU APPLY, PRE-APPLY.
At all the academies, application numbers are up, partly because of the weak economy. The Air Force Academy saw a jump of 17 percent this year; at Annapolis, the increase was 13 percent; and at West Point 8 percent. That has made a competitive process even more so.
Admissions officers and guidance counselors recommend that students start filling out preliminary applications as early as the middle of their junior years. ''The early bird does indeed get the worm,'' says Col. Deborah McDonald, director of admissions at West Point.
Those initial applications include transcripts, standardized test scores, recommendations and lists of extracurricular activities or jobs. Based on that information, some of the academies will encourage desirable students to continue the process by seeking nominations and preparing for fitness tests. Most of the academies also offer highly competitive one-week summer programs that admissions officers recommend for their most serious candidates.
''It gives a young person a chance to get a feel of the rigor of the academics and the physical activities,'' says Col. Carolyn Benyshek, the admissions director for the Air Force Academy.
For Emily Clemons, 18, a self-proclaimed ''Army brat'' who recently arrived in West Point, the summer program confirmed her desire to apply. But it made her summer roommate decide against it.
''She wasn't an athletic person and you've got to be into athletics to go here,'' Ms. Clemons says.
SIT UP, PUSH UP, PULL UP.
Admissions officers don't entirely agree with Ms. Clemons, but they come close.
Of the new cadets at West Point, nearly 1,200 -- about 9 of 10 -- had earned varsity letters, and 808 had been varsity team captains. Roughly the same numbers are true at the Naval, Coast Guard and Air Force Academies.
Certainly, strong students who excel at, say, computer programming or who do extraordinary volunteer work can get in without varsity letters. But those students would still have to be in good shape.
The academies require that every applicant take a fitness test, usually administered by a gym teacher. The test is essentially the same for all the academies and includes six events: sprinting, a mile run, situps, push-ups, throwing a basketball from the knees and pull-ups (women can do flexed-arm hangs).
Even good high school athletes say they train many hours for the exam, because a failing score is a disqualifier and a good score can help win admission. (Minimum scores are not released by the academies, but maximum scores are posted on some of their Web sites.)
Before they can receive final admissions, applicants must also pass medical exams administered by Pentagon-approved doctors. Conditions like poor eyesight, asthma and, yes, flat feet can be disqualifiers, though the services can issue exemptions to medical red flags.
GET CONGRESSIONAL SUPPORT.
Probably the most arcane part of the application is the nomination. No one can win admission without one, and they come in two forms: Congressional nominations or service-connected nominations, for children whose parents are career military, have been awarded the Medal of Honor or are 100 percent disabled from combat.
Because the number of service-connected nominations is relatively small, applicants are encouraged to seek as many Congressional nominations as they can get -- from their local member of Congress as well as both of their United States senators. In addition to transcripts, test scores and recommendations, Congressional offices will usually require interviews, sometimes with the member of Congress himself but more often with an aide or an appointed panel of veterans.
Representative John Hall, whose Hudson Valley district includes West Point, says that politics is kept out of the process. The ''X factor'' for most applicants, he says, is leadership ability, which the academies say is nearly as important as academic achievement. ''It is the intangible that really sets the service academies apart,'' Mr. Hall says.
Colonel McDonald puts it this way: ''Are they the student body president, as opposed to a class representative? Are they the team captain, or just on the team? Any time they rise above their peers in demonstrating leadership, it carries the weight.''
BE SURE.
There is another, more personal part of the process. Because students enter their respective services upon graduation, applicants are encouraged to think long and hard about whether that is the life for them. Going ahead means a loss of many personal freedoms for most of nine years -- four in college and five in service. It could also mean going to war.
For that reason, many graduates advise prospective students to make sure that they are applying for the right reasons.
''At the end of the day,'' says Lt. Samantha Nicoll, who graduated from West Point in 2009, ''you have to want to be an Army officer.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MILITARY MATERIAL: Getting into a service academy like West Point calls for more than the usual achievements. Required: physical agility and nominations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); ARMIES (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); NAVIES (76%); AIR FORCES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (76%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (90%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (79%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (79%) MARYLAND USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



605 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2025 words

HEADLINE: SHORT SALES!

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
WITH property values down by as much as 30 percent in New York City, some homeowners who bought at the height of the market are finding themselves underwater and are being forced to sell their homes in short sales.
In the months after the Lehman Brothers crash, most of the short-sale action was in the boroughs outside of Manhattan and in the suburbs. This year, however, short sales appear to be picking up in Manhattan, real estate and mortgage brokers say.
A recent search of sales listings found almost 20 advertised short sales, and that did not include short sales disguised with euphemistic terms like ''owner must sell.'' The advertised short sales range from a $250,000 two-bedroom on the Upper East Side to a $2 million three-bedroom designed by Philippe Starck in the financial district. They include town houses, co-ops, condops and condos. 
And the number of short sales, in which a home sells for less than the amount owed on the mortgage, will most likely continue to grow. The number of lis pendens filings -- a first step in the foreclosure process for houses and condos -- doubled in 2009 in Manhattan, to 724 from 334 in 2008; this year, 382 had been filed by the end of June, according to the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy of New York University.
''Short sales are happening and they're all over the map,'' said Melissa Cohn, the president of the Manhattan Mortgage Company. ''We're seeing multimillion-dollar foreclosures and short sales that no one ever anticipated in New York City.''
Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel and a market analyst, said that 2010 might well be dubbed the Year of the Short Sale nationally. ''A short sale is going to be the only way for many people who bought at the peak and who are now underwater to move on with their lives if they have to relocate or downsize,'' he said.
Short sales are a gentler alternative to foreclosure for both sellers and lenders. ''Compared to a foreclosure, a short sale generally allows an easier transition for the borrower, less impact on their credit history, and larger net proceeds to the loan's owner,'' said Tom Kelly, a spokesman for JPMorgan Chase, adding that Chase encourages borrowers who are unable to keep their homes to consider short sales.
Some advertised short sales seem like bargains, but most are priced just a little under market -- low enough to generate interest from buyers, but not too low to raise objections from lenders.
Short sales, however, are not for the faint-hearted. While there is a possibility for a good price, there is also a good chance that the deal will not go through. Many cooks are involved in this stew. The buyer must negotiate the price with both the seller and the seller's lender. At the same time, the seller must negotiate with the lender on the terms for forgiving the amount still owed on the mortgage. Meanwhile the bank is negotiating fees for lawyers and brokers. The process can take six to nine months.
For Sharay Hayes, who owns a four-story town house on Strivers Row in Harlem, a short sale may be the only way to avoid bankruptcy. Mr. Hayes inherited a share of the house, where he has lived since he was 3, from his grandfather in 2001. Over the years, he took out several mortgages to buy out six relatives and to restore the house's 19th-century grandeur while renovating it with 21st-century finishes and luxuries like a steam room and a whirlpool tub.
Until late last year, he kept up with payments on the $1.8 million he owes on the house. But his ''entire portfolio of income earning was in real estate,'' he said, namely rental properties in Ohio. Those investments went south when the auto plant that employed most of his tenants was shuttered about a year ago; he also is on the verge of losing these properties.
''That's another nightmare I'm trying to wake up from,'' Mr. Hayes said.
He has had his Harlem home on and off the market since 2006 for as much as $2.9 million, but with the recession, houses in the immediate area now are selling for closer to $1 million. His current broker, Gordon Sokich, the president of Luxor Homes and Investment Realty, an agency that specializes in distressed property sales, advised him to put it on the market for $850,000.
The low price prompted a bidding war and the house is now in contract for $975,000. Mr. Sokich said he expected the bank to counter with a higher price. ''We don't know what the bank's bottom line is,'' he said. He added that because Mr. Hayes has several liens on the house, the first lien is probably the only one that will be repaid in full.
''Once I conceded that I was going to lose my home,'' Mr. Hayes said, ''I felt like every day I was in the bedroom with my shades drawn, hoping it would go away.'' But the prospect of a short sale ''buys me some time.''
Because lenders can always sue after a short sale for what is still owed on a mortgage, sellers are advised to ask their lenders to waive the right to sue. But even with a waiver, lenders will often try to make up some of what is owed, either by seeking a cash payment at the closing or a promissory note. Any amount that is forgiven can be considered income by the Internal Revenue Service.
''The seller generally walks away with nothing,'' said John Bradbury, a Manhattan lawyer who has taught seminars on short sales to real estate agents. ''but they get out from under a mortgage they can no longer afford.''
Short sales often take months because many mortgages are owned by multiple investors, each of whom must agree to the process. Banks, too, are overwhelmed by foreclosure filings and applications for loan modifications. In addition, banks are not about to broadcast how much of a loss they're willing to take in a short sale.
''There's no 1-800 number that you can call to find out what a bank will take,'' Mr. Bradbury said. ''It's all done on a case-by-case basis, which is what lends itself to the painfully long process.''
Phil Tesoriero, the owner of Exceptional Homes Real Estate in Farmingdale, N.Y., and the teacher of a certification course on short sales, said he had seen short sales take anywhere from 45 days to 18 months. He has handled scores of short sales in Queens and Long Island, where he estimated there are a few thousand short sale listings.
Finding the right person at a bank to approve a short sale is often the biggest problem. ''That person hasn't been born yet,'' Mr. Tesoriero deadpanned. ''If I get the same person on the phone twice, it's a miracle.'' The best way to deal with that, he said, ''is to present a proposal that doesn't require much conversation.'' And, he added, ''that means sending a proposal that makes sense for the bank.''
He urged starting with a list price not too far off the market value, providing good comparables to support the price, and not wasting the bank's time by presenting hopelessly lowball offers.
Carol Kaplan, a spokeswoman for the American Bankers Association, said that short sales, like foreclosures and mortgage modifications, had been long processes in recent years, ''because of the number of them in the pipeline and the amount of paperwork involved.'' She said that although banks preferred short sales to foreclosures, ''they also want to make sure that there is no other option that would allow the homeowner to repay the loan in full.''
Banks generally will not entertain a short sale until a seller has a signed contract and 10 percent down from a prospective buyer. The Obama administration started a program this spring to encourage more short sales by allowing lenders to preapprove a listing price and setting time limits for the approval process. But many people in Manhattan do not qualify for the program, because it excludes anyone who owes more than $729,750 and whose monthly payment exceeds 31 percent of gross income.
It is only when the offer is in hand that the seller submits an application to the bank. This includes a hardship letter documenting why he or she can no longer pay the mortgage -- kind of like a co-op board package in reverse, this time to prove lack of resources.
For buyers, uncertainty is the main thing that sets a short sale apart from a regular sale. Because short sales can take months, a buyer seeking a mortgage may need to seek several extensions on a locked-in rate. Lawyers advise buyers to include a contract clause that allows them to pull out of the deal after a specified time period if the bank drags its heels on a decision.
Bill Dakak exercised that option earlier this year on the potential short sale of a studio in an Upper East Side co-op. He had a signed contract for $210,000 on a renovated apartment that had sold in 2005 for $399,000. His broker, Mark Baum, an agent with Prudential Douglas Elliman, said that the bank obtained and then somehow lost an appraisal and questioned the comparables provided by the seller's broker. Weeks turned into months.
Mr. Dakak's contract allowed him to back out after three months, and he did. ''You're asking for a response and you get nothing,'' he said. ''I needed to move on, and honestly I walked away from it feeling like the bank wasn't interested in selling.''
Mr. Dakak, who works in finance in Miami and was looking for a pied-a-terre, wound up spending $160,000 in the same building, on a studio in need of updating.
Short sales tend to attract ''somewhat sophisticated buyers,'' said Mary Vetri, a senior vice president of Brown Harris Stevens who helped complete a short sale on a one-bedroom condo in a Midtown high-rise in December. She represented the seller, who had bought the place in 2007 for about $850,000, but then lost his job and tried selling it at $899,000. After a year at that price, it was dropped to $739,000.
It sold for $690,000, when similar apartments in the building were listed for about $20,000 more. The buyer, Ms. Vetri said, ''didn't need to move right away and he was educated on short sales and involved enough so that we were all focused on getting it accomplished.'' The sale closed six months after going to contract.
Even when all the paperwork is submitted and various parties work hard to keep a short sale moving, a deal can still unwind after months of waiting.
When former clients came to Robin Lyon-Gardiner, a vice president of Brown Harris Stevens, saying they could no longer afford their two-bedroom condo with an office and a garden on the Upper West Side, she knew it would have to be a short sale. The couple owed close to $1.2 million on the place, but a similar apartment in the building had sold in a short sale for $940,000.
Ms. Lyon-Gardiner priced it at $975,000 last August, setting off two bidding wars. The first ended in a contract for $999,000, but that buyer ''got cold feet and walked away,'' she said. The second contract with different buyers was for $1.1 million.
The broker for the buyers, Carla de Leon, an agent at Halstead Property, had taken a class on short sales. She warned her clients that the process could drag on for months. ''I also told them they had to be realistic,'' she said, ''because I had learned that there was only a 60 to 70 percent chance that the deal would even get done.'' But her clients were game.
For months, the two brokers were in constant contact with each other, the owner's lawyer and the bank. ''I never got through to anyone who could tell me anything,'' Ms. de Leon said, ''but I felt it was important to keep trying. Because maybe I might get the one person who would feel sorry for me and try to move it along.''
At one point, the bank lost the file and the seller had to resubmit the application. Then, about six months after the contract was signed, the bank finally made a decision.
''After all that -- it was so much heartache and so much time -- they declined it,'' Ms. Lyon-Gardiner said. ''I never had a listing that so many people wanted and nobody ended up getting.''
Ms. de Leon said her buyers, whose deposit was returned, were stunned. ''They didn't understand how the bank could sit on it for so long or why the bank wouldn't want the most they could get for the property,'' she said.
At last word, the owners planned to declare bankruptcy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FINGERS CROSSED: Sharay Hayes is hoping that a short sale of his town house in Harlem will help him get out from under. It's now in contract. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 NONE BUT THE BRAVE: Robin Lyon-Gardiner, a vice president of Brown Harris Stevens, has seen her share of white-knuckle short sales. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY ILLUSTRATION BY PAUL ROGERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING (75%); SUBURBS (73%); RELOCATIONS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); MANHATTAN MORTGAGE CO (66%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (66%); SIC6163 LOAN BROKERS (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



606 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; QUESTIONS FOR VICENTE FOX; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Border Rap

BYLINE: Interview by DEBORAH SOLOMON

 BODY:
You're the former president of Mexico. What do you think of the Arizona immigration bill that is scheduled to take effect this week? It would require immigrants to carry their registration papers at all times and risk jail for not complying. I think there's a big misunderstanding on the value of migrants. Unfortunately, since Sept. 11, that very sad day, we have not advanced on the issue. On the contrary, xenophobes have taken over; governments like the one in Arizona are taking negative decisions with a very blinded look at the future.
Are you saying America has become less tolerant? Yes, yes. And maybe the best way to qualify it is ''fear.'' That fear has been promoted by those who want to go back to the past, to nationalistic attitudes, to building walls and isolating themselves from the rest of the world. 
What do you think the U.S. should do about the estimated 11 million immigrants who live here illegally, about 59 percent of whom are Mexican, according to a report from the Pew Hispanic Center? Document them! As long as they are working, they should be legalized. I admire so much each and every migrant. They are the most loyal workers in the U.S. economy. They build the homes of those who are attacking them.
What do you make of John McCain, who, in 2005, helped craft a bipartisan immigration reform bill, but has lately been feeding anti-immigration sentiment. He just said on television that Phoenix is ''the No. 2 kidnapping capital of the world,'' a fact that various groups have disputed. Yes. It's a total shame, the new position that he's holding. When he campaigned for president, he tried to gain votes from Hispanics by positioning himself very positively around migration. I don't understand his position today. It's very selfish. It's incredible that a politician of his stature, of his matureness and age, can be such a traitor to his own ideas.
I'm sure you're aware that the U.S. Department of Justice has sued the state of Arizona to overturn its immigration law, which may well be invalidated by the time this interview appears. That's a good intent. President Obama is committed to Hispanics and migrants. That's a promise I had from President Bush, and six years went by and nothing happened. I don't want to be negative, but I'm seeing the same story repeating again. It's been two years now, and nothing has happened in relation to migration.
What do you think Mexicans have contributed to American culture? Oh, starting with Mexican food! The jalapenos and the tacos and the rest. I think they have contributed family values. And then we have our culture. When you were killing Indian Apaches there, we had built Mayan cities, the pyramids, Mexico City.
Is there anything to be done about the drug wars that are terrorizing Mexicans today and that have reportedly caused 25,000 deaths in the past three years? That has to be dealt with together by the United States and Mexico. It's a joint problem and a joint challenge. The U.S. provides the markets and guns that come back to Mexico and allow the cartels to be active.
You think the United States is causing Mexico's crime wave? Absolutely, yes. The cartel gangs are nourished through the drug consumption in the United States. That's why my position is that we should move as fast as possible into legalizing drug consumption.
What are you working on these days? I am at the ranch, and we built here in Guanajuato the first presidential library in Mexico. It's built at the old dairy cow stable with modern facilities, and we're doing think-tanking actions. Let me give you news. We're going to have Elton John in October.
What for? To sing, to fund raise for scholarships! We know that for building leadership, there is nothing better than that part of our brain dedicated to art, to culture.
How do you get along with your successor, President Felipe Calderon? Muy bien. We have lunch every other month.
Do you give him advice? No, no advice. I just express my opinion.
INTERVIEW HAS BEEN CONDENSED AND EDITED.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIVIA CORONA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (78%); LITIGATION (77%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); FAMILY (71%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (50%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (73%) ARIZONA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



607 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1922 words

HEADLINE: Posing as Fitness

BYLINE: By PANKAJ MISHRA. 
Pankaj Mishra, a frequent contributor to the Book Review, is the author of ''An End to Suffering: The Buddha in the World.''

 BODY:
THE SUBTLE BODY
The Story of Yoga in America
By Stefanie Syman
390 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $27
THE GREAT OOM
The Improbable Birth of Yoga in America
By Robert Love
402 pp. Viking. $27.95
A few years ago, the pop singer Sting confided to an interviewer that a specific yoga asana, or posture, had enabled him to have sexual intercourse with his wife, the star of a line of yoga videos, for as long as eight hours at a time. ''Your stomach,'' he said, ''goes as near to the spine as you can make it, . . . and you never lose control, you just keep going.'' The news of this priapic tour de force ''went around the world,'' in Sting's own words, ''like a forest fire.'' Then he admitted he had been joking. His epic bouts of lovemaking, he said, included ''four hours of begging, then a movie and then dinner.'' 
Sting probably didn't realize how many would-be erotic athletes he had brutally disappointed by this confession. Even while the news of his sexual prowess was rumbling across countless magazine profiles, few people seemed to have suggested that eight hours of hydraulic exertion, however rapturous, might cause a slight problem of tedium, not to mention soreness. Nor did it provoke fundamental questions about the purpose of yoga, which in India, the country of its origin, is identified as one of the six main schools of classical philosophy as well as a form of intellectual training, ethical behavior, meditation, alternative medicine and physical culture. (The Sanskrit word itself means ''union,'' of the individual self with the cosmic Self.)
But then, as two new books on the strange history of yoga in America show, even the most esoteric and ancient spiritual tradition mutates weirdly when it meets a modern culture pursuing happiness with ever diverse means. As Pierre Bernard, one of the first of many indefatigable charlatans who popularized yoga, or at least its physical-training aspect, hatha yoga, in the United States, put it, ''The purpose of yoga is to prepare us from getting cheated; to enable us to make better bargains, and to get what we go after!'' Fabulous sex was high on Bernard's menu even in the strait-laced 1910s. Robert Love's entertaining biography, ''The Great Oom,'' depicts a bold and successful liar who could tell his gullible disciples with a straight face that oral sex, punishable in 1915 by up to 20 years in prison, was a sacred practice in India and produced orgasms 10 times longer than ordinary intercourse.
Bernard, Love writes, ''filtered the sacred literature of India . . . through his own point of view, that of an energetic Midwestern American.'' Still, this conflation of yoga with the Kama Sutra -- India's most famous exports to the West prior to information technology -- would have startled not only its Brahman practitioners in the Himalayas or along the Ganges but also the sages of Walden and Concord who first embraced Indian ideas of nondualism, the indivisibility of mind and matter, and the essential oneness of the universe.
Stefanie Syman's more spacious history of yoga in America, ''The Subtle Body,'' begins by describing how deeply and enduringly classical Indian philosophy influenced American transcendentalists. Both Emerson and Thoreau admired the ''Bhagavad-Gita''; Emerson's Oversoul resembles the Brahman, the all-inclusive, all-pervading Self of the Upanishads. However, neither Emerson nor Thoreau knew much about the physical-fitness side of yoga. The earliest Indian vendors of spirituality, like Swami Vivekananda, who lectured on Hinduism at the World Parliament of Religions in Chicago in 1893, looked down on the asanas, or poses, of hatha yoga as a defective path to yoga's goal: the union of the individual self with the divine Self.
Not that Americans were eager from the start to assume en masse the shirshasana, or headstand pose. Syman may be right to assert that as ''one of the first and most successful products of globalization,'' yoga today has ''augured a truly post-Christian, spiritually polyglot country.'' But back in early-20th-century America, a nativist backlash against Asian immigrants resulted in xenophobic laws keeping Indians out. And, as Robert Love puts it in his account of Bernard's struggles with various authorities, the ''legion forces of conformity and puritanism occupied the highest reaches of government, law enforcement, the press, and the clergy.'' ''This Soul Destroying Poison of the East,'' ran the headline of a long article in The Washington Post that blamed Bernard's ''Hindu occultism'' for everything from marital infidelity to suicide. Hounded by the yellow press and the police, Bernard scurried between various yoga centers for years before he found a congenial refuge near the Hudson River in Nyack, N.Y., in 1918.
So what changed? Preoccupied with rendering biographical detail (impressive but occasionally redundant in both books), Love and Syman rarely step back to give a broad overview of culture and society. The prospect for yoga brightened only with the arrival of a new generation for whom the ''rock of ages'' -- ''the sanctity of property, the patriarchal family, hereditary caste, the dogma of sin, obedience to authority,'' as Walter Lippmann put it in 1914 -- had been blasted away. Bernard also learned well the lesson of all successful purveyors of self-help from the Buddha to Bikram Choudhury, the controversial founder of today's heavily marketed (and copyrighted) Bikram Yoga: target the very rich, who, as their shrewdest chronicler in the 1920s reminded us, are ''different from you and me'' because ''they possess and enjoy early'' and grow ''soft'' (while the rest of us flounder at an elemental stage of the human struggle).
F. Scott Fitzgerald wouldn't have found it hard to understand why the beautiful and damned flocked to Bernard's large estate, often eager to toil in the most menial tasks. Like Bikram of Beverly Hills, the owner of many Rolls-Royces and Rolexes, and whose client list includes Madonna and Britney Spears, Bernard was especially lucky with his patrons, keeping one of the more flush Vanderbilts on tap for decades. Indra Devi, the sari-clad Swedish-Russian star of 1940s Bombay cinema (and the most intriguing of the colorful cast of eccentrics who brought yoga to America), seems barely to have bothered with the B-list. Arriving in Hollywood in 1947, Devi almost immediately enlisted Greta Garbo, Gloria Swanson and Jennifer Jones, along with others who, as Syman puts it, ''were under constant pressure to look radiantly youthful.''
Soon, Marilyn Monroe was claiming that yoga improved her legs. Yehudi Menuhin wrote the foreword to Devi's 1959 book ''Yoga for Americans.'' Yoga was quietly going mainstream. Syman slightly discounts the contributions of B. K. S. Iyengar, the author of ''Light on Yoga'' (1966), the most widely read book on modern yoga, and gives Devi credit ''for ridding hatha yoga of sordid associations and accumulated ill will.'' Indeed, she writes, ''Indra Devi was so good at packaging hatha yoga as a defense against illness and aging'' that it became ''easy to lose sight of its real purpose -- spiritual liberation.''
Meanwhile, fiercely entrepreneurial Indian gurus, previously limited by strict immigration laws, began to arrive in the United States, just in time for the counterculture. One of these bushy-bearded minor cultists even showed up at Woodstock in 1969, exhorting the crowd that ''the time has come for America to help the whole world with the spirituality.'' Many of these gurus were later outed as lecherous frauds and crooks. But by then the secular therapeutic culture of America's liberal elites had begun to accommodate the less far-out aspects of Eastern religion and philosophy. As early as 1969, Syman writes, ''yoga was something the hippies had in common with their putative enemies: the middle-class conformist, the corporate drone, the happy housewife.'' (And the adulterous one: yoga is seamlessly suburbanized in John Updike's Maple stories; and in ''The Culture of Narcissism'' (1979), Christopher Lasch grumpily lumps it together with oral sex as symptoms of Americans' weakening sense of self.)
Demoted to a mere workout, yoga in the 1980s lost some of its appeal to aggressive rivals in the fast-growing fitness business. Syman speculates that career-conscious women of the 1980s found aerobics more masculine, better able to help them break through the glass ceiling than presumably limp-wristed yoga. It was not until the late 1990s that yoga made a comeback, this time as a strenuous, calorie-immolating 90-minute workout. Bikram yoga (which takes place in rooms heated to 105 degrees), Ashtanga (pioneered by K. Pattabhi Jois) and Jivamukti (developed by two New Yorkers) demanded a grueling regimen that their upper- and middle-class adherents were only too relieved to surrender to. These new, quasi-masochistic movements, Syman writes, ''had tapped directly into that deep, pulsing vein of American puritanism.'' But Syman can sound a bit puritanical herself as she berates her compatriots for ignoring the grand metaphysics of yoga and turning it into yet another prop for their isolated, hypercompetitive egos. ''The Self, that God spark in everyone,'' she complains, has been demoted to the lowercase ''self,'' forcing yoga to ''surrender its claim to transcendence.''
The image of incorrigibly individualist and materialist Americans rummaging through ancient cultures in search of eternal youth, beauty and self-gratification has long provoked scorn. ''Yoga in Mayfair or Fifth Avenue,'' Carl Jung sternly declared, ''is a spiritual fake.'' But such a fetish of the ''authentic'' assumes that people in the country of yoga's origin have upheld a timeless and unchanging yoga rather than practicing what Wendy Doniger, the distinguished historian of Hinduism, calls the world's greatest ''have your rice cake and eat it'' religion.
It was in India that the tradition of Tantrism first exalted the human body as the source of this-worldly liberation. The generation of semi-Westernized Indians who brought about the renaissance of yoga in the early 20th century were themselves syncretists, combining ideas from both East and West. Even the physical aspects that dominate yoga today are partly reimports from the West. T. Krishnamacharya (the South Indian teacher of Indra Devi), B. K. S. Iyengar and K. Pattabhi Jois borrowed from gymnastic postures introduced to India by British colonialists.
Whether in the streets of Mysore or on Fifth Avenue, yoga cannot be disentangled from specific histories or specific cultural and economic practices. Of course, the more vulgar aspects of its inevitable commodification in the United States, like $1,000-a-night yoga cruises, ought to be deplored. Certainly, the civic or political virtue that results from limber, yoga-toned bodies is not yet measurable. And it would be nice if American followers of yoga, who increasingly define the future of this Indian discipline, would at least occasionally seek something like spiritual transcendence, though, for some at any rate, prolonged lovemaking and deeper orgasms will remain more feasible than -- and may even resemble -- ecstatic oneness with the big Self.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 8, 2010, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A review on July 25 about two books on yoga misstated part of the title of another book on that subject, written by B. K. S. Iyengar and first published in 1966. It is ''Light on Yoga,'' not ''Light of Yoga.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH FROM JOHN KOBAL FOUNDATION/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); YOGA (90%); MEDITATION (78%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (73%); CLASSICS (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (66%); PHILOSOPHY (64%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (62%); FOREST FIRES (53%); ETHICS (50%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (90%)

TITLE: Great Oom, The: The Improbable Birth of Yoga in America (Book); Subtle Body, The: The Story of Yoga in America (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



608 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Memories on the Half Shell

BYLINE: By HEIDI JON SCHMIDT. 
Heidi Jon Schmidt is the author of the novel ''The House on Oyster Creek.''

 BODY:
Provincetown, Mass.
CHINCOTEAGUE, Moonstone, Bayou La Batre, Blue Point, Wellfleet, Malpeque ... this was what I knew of the sea as a child: the list of oysters on the menu board at Grand Central Terminal's Oyster Bar. My father used to take my sister, Laura, and me there after our parents divorced.
I had never been close to my father and was shy during these meals. At the Oyster Bar, we didn't have to face each other; we could sit side by side on barstools watching the waiters in their white aprons as they opened oyster after oyster, each with one deft flick of the wrist. These men had dignity and composure such as I'd never seen. They were giving a performance as much as preparing meals. We could watch, sip our oyster stew and count ourselves as having accomplished another visit. 
The names of the oysters stayed with me -- each one representing a distant, mysterious seaside community, where fogs settled over serpentine estuaries and men repaired their fishing nets around lantern-lighted tables at night. I felt that somewhere far outside the city (Pemaquid? Apalachicola?) there existed a briny, muscular life that had more meaning than mine, if only because it was aligned with the tides. I wanted to grow up and become part of a place like that.
Laura, two years younger than I and my exact opposite (she held the leg-wrestling championship at her local fire department the year I published my first short story), shared my fascination. I don't think either of us understood how oysters grew or were gathered or anything really except that, as the poet Leon-Paul Fargue said, eating one is ''like kissing the sea on the lips.'' But we both gravitated coastward.
I went to Cape Cod, where I found Wellfleet much as I'd imagined it, with the same narrow streets angling down to the harbor, and fishermen idling their motors so as to leave no wake, preserving the delicate world beneath. I first kissed the man who would become my husband on the end of the wharf here in Provincetown. Our daughter is 16 now and a full-fledged local. When she was 3 she looked into an empty swimming pool and pronounced, ''Low tide.''
Laura moved to Cedar Key, an island off northwest Florida. The Suwannee River empties into the Gulf of Mexico there, and the mix of fresh- and saltwater is perfect for shellfish. While Wellfleet oysters are mostly farmed from tiny seeds set on racks in the intertidal zone at the edges of the bays, many gulf oysters still grow in reefs, and fishermen go out in flat-bottomed boats to pry them loose with 16-foot-long tongs. Nearly 70 percent of the oysters eaten in the United States come from these waters.
Laura and her husband, Jerry, now run a shellfish farm, in addition to tonging oysters and operating the fish market in town. Laura's son has followed them into the business. They live in a house along the water and there's an egret that comes to eat scraps from their picnic table.
Jerry plays the dobro in a blues band, and the first thing we do when we visit is get a big bottle of wine and go out to listen. Jerry's family has been oystering for generations, and he's made a living at it since his father died when he was 14. He and his brothers sold oysters on the half shell back then. Each one had his own refrigerator stocked full of oysters, and they shucked for people who lined up to buy.
It has always been said that if a man had a small boat and a set of oyster tongs, he could feed his family until the hard times passed. During the Great Depression, Cedar Key lived off its seafood. And when the current economic downturn hit and the tourists dwindled, people again fell back on those old ways of earning a living. But now, with the oil spill following the recession, Cedar Key locals are finding they can no longer depend on the water's abundance to get them through.
Oyster reefs filter water, keeping it pure and fresh -- the slightest change in the water changes the oyster (that's why there are so many kinds, each tasting of its own bay). Gulf oysters are filling with oil instead of saltwater now, and dying reef by reef. Laura and Jerry don't think there's any hope for their farm, and worry for the fate of their entire island.
Though BP's faulty well seems to have finally stopped gushing, the millions of barrels of spilled oil will pollute the gulf for a long time to come, and every change of the wind and current will pose a grave new threat to Cedar Key. Hopeful estimates suggest that within 10 to 20 years the oyster reefs in the gulf may rebound. But the way of life, its mystery and also reliability, the sense that a man has what he needs for his family there within his reach, will be gone.
I've been trying to persuade Laura and Jerry to move north. It's true that even here, beyond the reach of the oil, oystering is tedious, heavy work. You have to wait for the low tides of the full and new moon to cull and harvest the oysters, all the while protecting them as best you can from their natural enemies: wind and weather, disease and predators like moon snails, whose tongues drill holes as perfect as a paper punch through shells so as to suck out the meat. And when winter comes, you pull the oysters -- literally tons of them -- out of the water and store them dormant in root cellars so they won't freeze into the ice and wash out to sea with it in the spring.
But when you're out on the water and the baby bluefish are jumping and the sea is like a bolt of silk changing color under the sunset, you can feel that ancient, vital connection to the earth that lives in dreams and metaphors, and catches the imagination of children. It gives us hope and strength in ways we barely recognize but on which we've always relied.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); SPORT FISHING (72%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (72%); FISHES (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (64%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (64%); WRITERS (64%); WRESTLING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



609 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SCENE STEALER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: In Hollywood, Everybody's A Digital Revolutionary

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES
THE boom in digital entertainment -- interrupted by the recession and the credit freeze -- has returned to Hollywood. Almost daily, it seems, another start-up pops up to proclaim how it will revolutionize movies or television.
On May 10 came word of i-Trailers, a new company devoted to movie advertising on the Web and mobile devices. On May 11, Diva Mobile declared itself the entertainment industry's ''first cross-platform solution for video-on-demand'' services. Arriving on May 13 was SulSet.com, a site promising to stream live, behind-the-scenes video from movie sets for a one-time $9.99 fee. 
And the frenzy has continued. Just last Tuesday came Xumanii.com, which said it was ''revolutionizing the way in which live entertainment and social networking come together.''
You get the idea.
But at some point, it's worth asking: Is this a true boom, backed by serious investors with clear-headed business models? Or has the cost of entry become so low that this is just a false flush? To some, it seems like the latter.
''The problem is the same as in every gold rush: the gold is easier to see than to mine,'' said Lindsay Conner, a lawyer at Manatt, Phelps & Phillips who specializes in entertainment finance. More serious financing is starting to trickle in, he said, ''but we're a ways away from truly cashing in on either the cost-saving or revenue-generating potential of the Internet for entertainment.''
Jordan Levin, chief executive of Generate, a digital production and distribution company, was more blunt. ''Ad dollars are coming back, and digital deal-making may be quickening,'' Mr. Levin said. ''But it's not enough to fuel a robust and dynamic market, and by that I mean a market that isn't just a bunch of meaningless announcements.''
Start-ups, many of them self-financed, see it quite differently.
''We think we are reinventing television,'' said David Levy, C.E.O. of Philo, a month-old social networking service that lets groups of people interact while watching television. ''More people understand this time around that you have to have a serious idea,'' he said. ''Just because the barriers to entry are so low that anybody can start a company doesn't mean that just anybody should.''
Technology is increasingly ripe for this kind of experimentation, says Larry Kramer, founder of MarketWatch.com and author of the forthcoming book ''C-Scape: Navigating the Rapidly Changing Worlds of Media and Business.'' He noted that Apple's iPad and the rush by networks and movie studios to be a part of it -- ABC was quick to offer 20 shows for iPad streaming -- created a burst of activity by themselves. Internet-equipped television sets are also becoming more mainstream.
And digital sales of movie and TV shows continue to grow. The Digital Entertainment Group, a trade organization, said the category generated $1.1 billion in the first six months of the year, up 23 percent from the period last year. Most of the successful digital entertainment companies operate in this area, including Netflix, which recently said that use of its streaming service was running double last year's rate.
The previous surge in digital entertainment occurred in 2007 and -- with the exception of a few standouts like Hulu.com -- fell flat with the broader economy in 2009. ManiaTV, a Web broadcaster that produced original shows, couldn't refinance loans amid the financial crisis and closed its doors in March 2009. (It subsequently returned as a celebrity video site.) Ripe TV, heralded as the Maxim of Web video, died in June 2009.
Eight months to a year ago, a smattering of venture capitalists, studios and advertisers started dipping their toes back in, financing start-ups that began arriving on the market in the spring. In other instances, fledgling companies that did survive the downturn -- like Break.com, dedicated to goofball videos and original Webisodes -- have recently started to make waves again.
Some of the new bustle has produced real results. BermanBraun, a three-year-old Los Angeles production company, has found big success with
Wonderwall.com and Glo.com, which offer celebrity and lifestyle video and news in partnership with MSN.com. BermanBraun plans to introduce two other sites by year-end. And Mr. Levin's company, Generate, is fruitfully tapping a flow of ad dollars into scripted Web programming.
Last Tuesday, a consortium of movie studios, television networks and consumer electronics manufacturers unveiled UltraViolet, an ambitious effort to make it easier for consumers to access and manage digital entertainment regardless of where it was bought.
BUT an awful lot of the companies angling for a piece of the action are long on goals and short on specifics. WowioTV.com, a digital channel devoted to comics, gossip and celebrities, ''has big plans for the entertainment industry,'' a news release says. Yowie.com (not to be confused with ZoweeTV.com) strives to become another spot for celebrities and their fans to gather for video chats.
Remember SulSet.com, the behind-the-scenes subscription movie site? Oops: it quickly ran into problems with the Screen Actors Guild, which objected that the cast was not getting a cut of the proceeds. To resolve that, it had to start giving free access to the site, upending its business plan.
Brent Weinstein, head of digital media for United Talent Agency, describes many of the ideas that are starting to surface as ''junior varsity.''
''Where the market stands today there are more digital opportunities than ever,'' he said. ''Those that will be successful are the ones who understand the unique aspects of the platform and the audience.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (76%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (65%); WRITERS (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (80%); MANATT PHELPS & PHILLIPS LLP (54%); MARKETWATCH INC (50%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (80%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (80%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (80%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (80%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%); SIC7331 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



610 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; EMPIRE STATE OF MIND; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 2917 words

HEADLINE: Backpacks Among the Briefcases

BYLINE: By RACHEL AVIV. 
Rachel Aviv is a Rosalynn Carter fellow for mental-health journalism and a frequent contributor to Education Life.

 BODY:
HANNAH WOLFE traveled to school by air last year. It required precise timing, a skill she honed when she and her friends moved to what they called Rosy -- a sprawling apartment complex on Roosevelt Island that doubles as a dorm. All her classes at Marymount Manhattan College were on the Upper East Side, and to get there, she took two buses and a tram that glides 250 feet above the East River and offers postcard views of Midtown Manhattan.
''It still feels like an exciting event,'' Ms. Wolfe, a sophomore, said during a rush-hour ride to class. ''The problem is it takes so much effort. To do anything in the city, you have to figure out how to get there and when to leave and what to wear -- because everyone else in the city is so 'put together' you don't want to stick out -- and at the end of the day, you're just exhausted.''
The austere, marble lobby of Ms. Wolfe's apartment building, populated by United Nations workers and young families, gives no indication that students live inside. As a college student in New York, Ms. Wolfe said, ''you definitely skip a step and move into this weird adult stage of life.'' 
Over the next month, more than 64,000 incoming freshmen will descend on New York City's campuses. Nearly 44,000 of them will come from beyond the five boroughs, with dreamy expectations of what their lives will be like -- four years of clubbing with celebrities, sashaying around art galleries. While acclimating to the culture of any campus is trying, the transition to New York City poses particularly daunting challenges. In exchange for culture and independence, students give up the comfort of a built-in, clearly defined community, which can leave them feeling isolated and lost amidst more than eight million strangers. On weekends, Ms. Wolfe can easily go the day without encountering people she knows, so she makes a point of talking to the bus driver each morning. ''It's so anonymous,'' she said, ''that it just feels good to reach out to someone.''
Lacking the traditional accoutrements -- the gates, quads and row of fraternity and sorority houses -- residential colleges and universities like Marymount Manhattan, New York University, Cooper Union and the New School are nested within the city. Even New Yorkers don't know exactly where the New School is; its sleek, boxy buildings fit neatly into the downtown office and apartment buildings surrounding them. (Paul Piekarz, who describes himself as one of the few New School students who doesn't enjoy being ''ironic with my health,'' can pick out the school buildings by the smokers outside of them.)
''When you are dealing with a nontraditional campus where the campus is a collection of buildings,'' said Tracy Robin, assistant vice president for student health and support at the New School, ''it can be hard to figure out who to connect with, and where. Going to school here is one of many identities students take on, but being in the city is often the first.''
To Taylor Horak, who left her home state of Virginia for the first time when she came to N.Y.U. last fall, passing as a New Yorker quickly became a point of pride. I spoke with Ms. Horak and her roommate, Caroline Ballard, who is also from Virginia, several times throughout the school year as they adjusted to living in the city. They began by dressing differently -- more layers, darker colors and whimsical accessories. Inspired by professors who Ms. Horak describes as ''all crazy and eccentric and obsessed with whatever they teach,'' they went to museums and art galleries and began watching morbid independent films. By second semester they were accustomed to the anonymity of the streets and no longer felt compelled to stare when a man waltzed by with a cat on his head. Even so, Ms. Horak says she feels like a ''glorified tourist.''
Ms. Ballard worries that New Yorkers think she and other students are ''infiltrating.'' Recently, she watched as a ''townie'' erupted at a campus tour guide who was loudly recounting the charms of the neighborhood. ''You don't really live here,'' the woman yelled. ''You're just visiting for four years!''
THE term ''college town'' appears ill-fitting for a metropolis like New York, but in fact higher education exerts a huge force on the city. According to the Center for an Urban Future, which studies New York's economic development, the city gained 17,000 jobs in higher education over the last decade, and its colleges and universities employ more people than in the entire Boston-Cambridge-Quincy area, typically thought of as the country's center of higher education. Half a million students attend a postsecondary program in New York City. A recent study by the Downtown Brooklyn Partnership found that there are more students in downtown Brooklyn than in all of Cambridge, Mass. And according to the latest Princeton Review student survey, New York City is home to three of the top five colleges ranked for being in ''great college towns.'' (The other two ''towns'' were San Francisco and Washington.)
To meet increased student demand, urban universities keep stretching beyond the perimeters of their campuses. Columbia University plans to turn about 17 acres in West Harlem now peppered with meat packing plants, storage warehouses and car repair shops into an extension of its campus, which stands at a slight remove from the rest of the city. It hopes to see 16 new buildings for science, business and the arts rise over several decades. The New School is beginning construction next month on a 16-story, bronze-and-glass dormitory and student center. And N.Y.U. recently unveiled plans to expand its footprint by more than 40 percent over the next two decades.
N.Y.U. is the city's largest private university, and one of the most desired in the country. Since the early 1990s, the applicant pool has nearly quadrupled, and the acceptance rate has more than halved. But the university's steady expansion has rankled longtime residents. Andrew Berman, executive director of the Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation, worries that ''more and more, the Village is coming to feel like a company town.''
The blocks surrounding Washington Square Park, once the most glamorous place to be poetic and poor, now have a homogenous flavor, and many restaurants, stores and bars have been established with students in mind. These so-called N.Y.U. superblocks are full of ethnic restaurants that are cheap, cute, quick and loud. The waiters serve sugary, alcoholic drinks, and they tend not to object that the ID's handed to them are a little too colorful or flimsy.
Most N.Y.U. dorms are clustered near Washington Square Park and Union Square, and the introductions to the buildings on the university Web site can read like a Craigslist posting: ''swanky address on Fifth Avenue,'' ''amazing views of the Empire State Building,'' proximity to ''trendy SoHo neighborhoods.'' Such surroundings can make traditional campus life seem irrelevant. The university has no football team, and the Greek scene, which is oriented around downtown bars and clubs, is slight; many students don't realize it even exists.
Halfway through freshman year, Adriana Candelas, now entering her senior year and president of Theta Phi Beta sorority, says she thought of transferring because she felt so dislocated.
On weekends, she and a few other freshmen on her floor would go to dinner on the superblocks, or to a movie or play, and then come back and hang out in their hallway. But she couldn't find a way to expand her relationships beyond the floor of her dorm. Because the university is embedded in the city, she rarely encountered familiar faces between classes.
Joining a sorority helped relieve the loneliness, she says, but being a sorority president does not carry much cachet. ''When we ask freshmen if they're interested in Greek life,'' she said, ''they make a crazy face and run away.'' She says she feels a much stronger connection to her sorority than to the university as a whole, whose scattered buildings and thorny bureaucracy can make it hard to get things done. ''I feel like the one common connection between students is that we kind of 'hate on' N.Y.U. together,'' she said.
Most fraternity and sorority houses are on the top three floors of a residence hall in Chinatown, next to an enormous nail salon and a homeless shelter, and the only sign that they occupy these rooms are Greek letters on their closed doors. Like many things in New York, the setup is transient. Because the societies don't own their own houses, the sisters must adhere to the rules of Residential Life and switch rooms just like any group of students. At the end of each year, Ms. Candelas and her sorority sisters pack up their photographs (a diverse group of women laughing, dancing, hugging, pointing fingers at one another) and the motivational sayings ( ''Unconditional,'' ''Genuine,'' ''Too Legit to Quit'') pasted all over their walls. Come fall, they will set up the sorority house all over again.
IN 2006, N.Y.U. commissioned Elizabeth Swados of the Tisch School of Arts to turn the sermons of freshman orientation into something more palatable, and she came up with ''The Reality Show: N.Y.U.,'' a piece of musical theater with topical skits often written by students: among them, the Crystal Meth Song, the Gay Ho-Down, the Condom Song and the Confidence Dirge. This year, all 4,500 or so freshmen must attend at Radio City Music Hall. (Last year, the event was held in Madison Square Garden.) Ms. Swados is versed in the art of listening; she wrote the Tony Award-nominated musical ''Runaways,'' which she also directed, using real-life narratives gleaned from workshops with children who lived on the streets.
Each summer Ms. Swados talks with provosts, mental-health counselors and her cast -- students from Tisch -- to identify topics that should be updated for the revue. The skits offer bits of urban wisdom: don't walk barefoot in Washington Square Park; keep your wallet hidden; be skeptical of men on Broadway selling what appear to be remarkably cheap show tickets.
Staci Ripkey, director for orientation and transition programs at N.Y.U.'s College of Arts and Science, urges freshmen to strive toward balance. ''Students can be overwhelmed by having too many options,'' she said. ''On smaller campuses, on the weekend, you go to the local restaurant. But here there's so much, they don't know where to start.'' Some hole up in their rooms. Others become distracted by their surroundings and never go to class.
At many urban universities, a swift education in city living is built into the curriculum. Marymount Manhattan gives freshmen one academic credit for, essentially, learning to function as a student in New York. The mandatory semester-long course requires that students learn the subway system, give oral presentations on a Manhattan neighborhood, and develop their resumes -- to take advantage of internship opportunities in the city.
The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation recently awarded Marymount a $60,000 grant to incorporate the city into courses -- say, a tour of the Tenement Museum in a sociology class or a visit to the Metropolitan Museum of Art for a painting class.
The New School's small, discussion-based classes also directly engage with the city and require numerous field trips to cultural events in the five boroughs. Recent course offerings include ''Punk and Noise,'' ''Chinese Art in N.Y.C.'' and ''Personal Map-Making in New York.''
FOUNDED in 1919 by intellectuals who wanted a progressive alternative to the traditional university, the New School has recently become more widely known -- 74 percent of its students come from outside New York State, and the applicant pool has increased by 41 percent since 2004. Around that time, the New School embarked on a rebranding campaign, dropping the ''university'' from its name and adopting a logo that looks like it was written in spray paint. Under the presidency of Bob Kerrey, the former Nebraska governor and senator, there have been protests and building takeovers by students who considered his priorities out of tune with the university's founding ideals.
The New School is still in a state of transition. For many years it was primarily a commuter school for adults who weren't necessarily interested in a college community. But the disperse nature of the university seems to push some students away: about 20 percent of freshmen don't return for a second year (38 percent leave Marymount Manhattan after their first year, though less than 10 percent leave Columbia or N.Y.U.). Two years ago, the student union at the New School's liberal arts college, Eugene Lang, proposed a solution. They decided that a warm and fuzzy mascot -- a panda -- could instill a sense of community and school spirit. One of the authors of the ill-fated proposal explained the choice to the school newspaper: ''I believe that New York City, one of the most heavily populated places in the world, can also be one of the loneliest.''
Mr. Piekarz, a junior from suburban Chicago who transferred to the New School last year from Marymount Manhattan, on East 71st Street, says he has only a few friends at college but prefers it that way. ''I love talking to strangers,'' he said. ''I don't need to be tethered to a big group of friends like I would at a state school.''
Marymount Manhattan and the New School, he said, reflect the ethos of the neighborhood surrounding the campus. ''As I see it, the Marymount crowd saw 'Sex and the City' and wanted to be part of it,'' he said. ''And the New School students saw images of the downtown art scene in the '80s.''
One recent Friday night, he and his friend Shane Lessa, a junior and avid skateboarder, spent a typical evening wandering the city. They got Cuban sandwiches at Casa Havana, walked down Eighth Avenue past a row of expensive gay bars, and then made their way to Gramercy Park, where a trio of designer-purse-size dogs yapped at each other. ''The streets are pure entertainment,'' said Mr. Lessa, as he walked by a man angrily pounding the hood of a cab.
Lang's equivalent of a quad, the campus hangout, is a courtyard between two buildings about the size of a large swimming pool. Mr. Piekarz avoids it because ''people stand around in their hipster clothes looking cool and checking everyone out.''
It is true that the students at Eugene Lang dress unusually well. On a sunny afternoon the women wore leather boots and patterned skirts, skinny jeans and fitted Army jackets, and they all had uniformly lovely hair -- long, wavy, artfully messy. Although a few people had their laptops out, the place was better situated for casual encounters and eavesdropping. The concrete was covered with cigarette butts.
Suzanne Exposito, a junior from Jacksonville, Fla., who describes herself as a feminist and anticapitalist, says she can't understand why some people fail to throw away their trash. ''There's this binary here between the people who have a cause and those who don't,'' she said. ''Some people only came here to be in the city, and they just don't care. I think they're the ones who dump their cigarettes on the ground.''
Ms. Exposito likes that being in Manhattan allows her to get internships and jobs relevant to her career -- she wants to be a graphic novelist and pursue antiviolence advocacy work. She also appreciates that it allows her to interact with people of all ages and economic classes, not just well-to-do 20-year-olds. Even Columbia is too claustrophobic for her, she says: ''I feel like I would be in the midst of an arrested development if I were in one of those alternate universes known as a college campus.''
The party scene unfolds in isolated pockets in Bushwick, Bedford-Stuyvesant and Sunset Park. ''Picture a bunch of punks and anarchists and hipsters,'' Ms. Exposito said, ''and maybe once in a while some debutante characters will show up, but they usually feel out of place.''
The typical college campus often obscures socioeconomic differences: everyone lives in the same dorms, eats the same cafeteria food and shops for clothes at the same local stores. A member of the Low Income Student Alliance, Ms. Exposito says that as soon as she arrived in the city she realized that the amount of money she could spend -- on transportation, drinks or restaurants -- would be the ''defining factor in whether or not I could hang out with a particular group of friends.''
The high cost of living is an obstacle for N.Y.U. students as well, who tend to spend their evenings in Manhattan rather than Brooklyn. The price of eating and drinking ($12 is a fairly typical price for a cocktail) can be a deterrent to socializing.
At the end of her freshman year, after a pained period of calculating her savings, Taylor Horak decided that she could no longer afford to go to school in New York, despite having grown increasingly fond of the university. In March, when she received her financial aid package for sophomore year, it covered much less of the approximate $52,000 for tuition, books, and room and board than she had expected. After computing that she would be more than $100,000 in debt by graduation, she withdrew from N.Y.U.
This fall she is going to a state school in Virginia where tuition will be less than $10,000. But she worries that she's been tainted by her year in the city.
''I'm stuck in this strange in-between space,'' she said. ''You come up here and you're the Southerner, and you go back home and you're suddenly the snotty, cultured girl from New York.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ROOM TO SPREAD OUT? NOT HERE: The New School ''campus'' blends into the office buildings around it. Even New Yorkers aren't exactly sure where it is. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FORTHE NEW YORK TIMES) (ED24)
COLLEGE TOWN, N.Y.: Marymount Manhattan, left, on the Upper East Side. New School students, right, hang out where they can, including the courtyard of its liberal arts college, above. Construction of a student center is under way, one of several major projects that would expand the city's campuses. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARYMOUNT MANHATTAN
PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES.) (ED25)
MUST SEE: A skit illustrates the grip of addiction, part of ''The Reality Show: N.Y.U.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY NYU PHOTO BUREAU: GALLO) (ED26)
 THE QUAD: New York University students have made Washington Square Park their own, much to the chagrin of townies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ED27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT HOUSING (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



611 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 7054 words

HEADLINE: The End of Forgetting

BYLINE: By JEFFREY ROSEN. 
Jeffrey Rosen, a law professor at George Washington University, is a frequent contributor to the magazine. He is writing a book about Louis Brandeis.

 BODY:
Four years ago, Stacy Snyder, then a 25-year-old teacher in training at Conestoga Valley High School in Lancaster, Pa., posted a photo on her MySpace page that showed her at a party wearing a pirate hat and drinking from a plastic cup, with the caption ''Drunken Pirate.'' After discovering the page, her supervisor at the high school told her the photo was ''unprofessional,'' and the dean of Millersville University School of Education, where Snyder was enrolled, said she was promoting drinking in virtual view of her under-age students. As a result, days before Snyder's scheduled graduation, the university denied her a teaching degree. Snyder sued, arguing that the university had violated her First Amendment rights by penalizing her for her (perfectly legal) after-hours behavior. But in 2008, a federal district judge rejected the claim, saying that because Snyder was a public employee whose photo didn't relate to matters of public concern, her ''Drunken Pirate'' post was not protected speech. 
When historians of the future look back on the perils of the early digital age, Stacy Snyder may well be an icon. The problem she faced is only one example of a challenge that, in big and small ways, is confronting millions of people around the globe: how best to live our lives in a world where the Internet records everything and forgets nothing -- where every online photo, status update, Twitter post and blog entry by and about us can be stored forever. With Web sites like LOL Facebook Moments, which collects and shares embarrassing personal revelations from Facebook users, ill-advised photos and online chatter are coming back to haunt people months or years after the fact. Examples are proliferating daily: there was the 16-year-old British girl who was fired from her office job for complaining on Facebook, ''I'm so totally bored!!''; there was the 66-year-old Canadian psychotherapist who tried to enter the United States but was turned away at the border -- and barred permanently from visiting the country -- after a border guard's Internet search found that the therapist had written an article in a philosophy journal describing his experiments 30 years ago with L.S.D.
According to a recent survey by Microsoft, 75 percent of U.S. recruiters and human-resource professionals report that their companies require them to do online research about candidates, and many use a range of sites when scrutinizing applicants -- including search engines, social-networking sites, photo- and video-sharing sites, personal Web sites and blogs, Twitter and online-gaming sites. Seventy percent of U.S. recruiters report that they have rejected candidates because of information found online, like photos and discussion-board conversations and membership in controversial groups.
Technological advances, of course, have often presented new threats to privacy. In 1890, in perhaps the most famous article on privacy ever written, Samuel Warren and Louis Brandeis complained that because of new technology -- like the Kodak camera and the tabloid press -- ''gossip is no longer the resource of the idle and of the vicious but has become a trade.'' But the mild society gossip of the Gilded Age pales before the volume of revelations contained in the photos, video and chatter on social-media sites and elsewhere across the Internet. Facebook, which surpassed MySpace in 2008 as the largest social-networking site, now has nearly 500 million members, or 22 percent of all Internet users, who spend more than 500 billion minutes a month on the site. Facebook users share more than 25 billion pieces of content each month (including news stories, blog posts and photos), and the average user creates 70 pieces of content a month. There are more than 100 million registered Twitter users, and the Library of Congress recently announced that it will be acquiring -- and permanently storing -- the entire archive of public Twitter posts since 2006.
In Brandeis's day -- and until recently, in ours -- you had to be a celebrity to be gossiped about in public: today all of us are learning to expect the scrutiny that used to be reserved for the famous and the infamous. A 26-year-old Manhattan woman told The New York Times that she was afraid of being tagged in online photos because it might reveal that she wears only two outfits when out on the town -- a Lynyrd Skynyrd T-shirt or a basic black dress. ''You have movie-star issues,'' she said, ''and you're just a person.''
We've known for years that the Web allows for unprecedented voyeurism, exhibitionism and inadvertent indiscretion, but we are only beginning to understand the costs of an age in which so much of what we say, and of what others say about us, goes into our permanent -- and public -- digital files. The fact that the Internet never seems to forget is threatening, at an almost existential level, our ability to control our identities; to preserve the option of reinventing ourselves and starting anew; to overcome our checkered pasts.
In a recent book, ''Delete: The Virtue of Forgetting in the Digital Age,'' the cyberscholar Viktor Mayer-Schonberger cites Stacy Snyder's case as a reminder of the importance of ''societal forgetting.'' By ''erasing external memories,'' he says in the book, ''our society accepts that human beings evolve over time, that we have the capacity to learn from past experiences and adjust our behavior.'' In traditional societies, where missteps are observed but not necessarily recorded, the limits of human memory ensure that people's sins are eventually forgotten. By contrast, Mayer-Schonberger notes, a society in which everything is recorded ''will forever tether us to all our past actions, making it impossible, in practice, to escape them.'' He concludes that ''without some form of forgetting, forgiving becomes a difficult undertaking.''
It's often said that we live in a permissive era, one with infinite second chances. But the truth is that for a great many people, the permanent memory bank of the Web increasingly means there are no second chances -- no opportunities to escape a scarlet letter in your digital past. Now the worst thing you've done is often the first thing everyone knows about you.
THE CRISIS -- AND THE SOLUTION? All this has created something of a collective identity crisis. For most of human history, the idea of reinventing yourself or freely shaping your identity -- of presenting different selves in different contexts (at home, at work, at play) -- was hard to fathom, because people's identities were fixed by their roles in a rigid social hierarchy. With little geographic or social mobility, you were defined not as an individual but by your village, your class, your job or your guild. But that started to change in the late Middle Ages and the Renaissance, with a growing individualism that came to redefine human identity. As people perceived themselves increasingly as individuals, their status became a function not of inherited categories but of their own efforts and achievements. This new conception of malleable and fluid identity found its fullest and purest expression in the American ideal of the self-made man, a term popularized by Henry Clay in 1832. From the late 18th to the early 20th century, millions of Europeans moved from the Old World to the New World and then continued to move westward across America, a development that led to what the historian Frederick Jackson Turner called ''the significance of the frontier,'' in which the possibility of constant migration from civilization to the wilderness made Americans distrustful of hierarchy and committed to inventing and reinventing themselves.
In the 20th century, however, the ideal of the self-made man came under siege. The end of the Western frontier led to worries that Americans could no longer seek a fresh start and leave their past behind, a kind of reinvention associated with the phrase ''G.T.T.,'' or ''Gone to Texas.'' But the dawning of the Internet age promised to resurrect the ideal of what the psychiatrist Robert Jay Lifton has called the ''protean self.'' If you couldn't flee to Texas, you could always seek out a new chat room and create a new screen name. For some technology enthusiasts, the Web was supposed to be the second flowering of the open frontier, and the ability to segment our identities with an endless supply of pseudonyms, avatars and categories of friendship was supposed to let people present different sides of their personalities in different contexts. What seemed within our grasp was a power that only Proteus possessed: namely, perfect control over our shifting identities.
But the hope that we could carefully control how others view us in different contexts has proved to be another myth. As social-networking sites expanded, it was no longer quite so easy to have segmented identities: now that so many people use a single platform to post constant status updates and photos about their private and public activities, the idea of a home self, a work self, a family self and a high-school-friends self has become increasingly untenable. In fact, the attempt to maintain different selves often arouses suspicion. Moreover, far from giving us a new sense of control over the face we present to the world, the Internet is shackling us to everything that we have ever said, or that anyone has said about us, making the possibility of digital self-reinvention seem like an ideal from a distant era.
Concern about these developments has intensified this year, as Facebook took steps to make the digital profiles of its users generally more public than private. Last December, the company announced that parts of user profiles that had previously been private -- including every user's friends, relationship status and family relations -- would become public and accessible to other users. Then in April, Facebook introduced an interactive system called Open Graph that can share your profile information and friends with the Facebook partner sites you visit.
What followed was an avalanche of criticism from users, privacy regulators and advocates around the world. Four Democratic senators -- Charles Schumer of New York, Michael Bennet of Colorado, Mark Begich of Alaska and Al Franken of Minnesota -- wrote to the chief executive of Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg, expressing concern about the ''instant personalization'' feature and the new privacy settings. The reaction to Facebook's changes was such that when four N.Y.U. students announced plans in April to build a free social-networking site called Diaspora, which wouldn't compel users to compromise their privacy, they raised more than $20,000 from more than 700 backers in a matter of weeks. In May, Facebook responded to all the criticism by introducing a new set of privacy controls that the company said would make it easier for users to understand what kind of information they were sharing in various contexts.
Facebook's partial retreat has not quieted the desire to do something about an urgent problem. All around the world, political leaders, scholars and citizens are searching for responses to the challenge of preserving control of our identities in a digital world that never forgets. Are the most promising solutions going to be technological? Legislative? Judicial? Ethical? A result of shifting social norms and cultural expectations? Or some mix of the above? Alex Turk, the French data-protection commissioner, has called for a ''constitutional right to oblivion'' that would allow citizens to maintain a greater degree of anonymity online and in public places. In Argentina, the writers Alejandro Tortolini and Enrique Quagliano have started a campaign to ''reinvent forgetting on the Internet,'' exploring a range of political and technological ways of making data disappear. In February, the European Union helped finance a campaign called ''Think B4 U post!'' that urges young people to consider the ''potential consequences'' of publishing photos of themselves or their friends without ''thinking carefully'' and asking permission. And in the United States, a group of technologists, legal scholars and cyberthinkers are exploring ways of recreating the possibility of digital forgetting. These approaches share the common goal of reconstructing a form of control over our identities: the ability to reinvent ourselves, to escape our pasts and to improve the selves that we present to the world.
REPUTATION BANKRUPTCY AND TWITTERGATION A few years ago, at the giddy dawn of the Web 2.0 era -- so called to mark the rise of user-generated online content -- many technological theorists assumed that self-governing communities could ensure, through the self-correcting wisdom of the crowd, that all participants enjoyed the online identities they deserved. Wikipedia is one embodiment of the faith that the wisdom of the crowd can correct most mistakes -- that a Wikipedia entry for a small-town mayor, for example, will reflect the reputation he deserves. And if the crowd fails -- perhaps by turning into a digital mob -- Wikipedia offers other forms of redress. Those who think their Wikipedia entries lack context, because they overemphasize a single personal or professional mistake, can petition a group of select editors that decides whether a particular event in someone's past has been given ''undue weight.'' For example, if the small-town mayor had an exemplary career but then was arrested for drunken driving, which came to dominate his Wikipedia entry, he can petition to have the event put in context or made less prominent.
In practice, however, self-governing communities like Wikipedia -- or algorithmically self-correcting systems like Google -- often leave people feeling misrepresented and burned. Those who think that their online reputations have been unfairly tarnished by an isolated incident or two now have a practical option: consulting a firm like ReputationDefender, which promises to clean up your online image. ReputationDefender was founded by Michael Fertik, a Harvard Law School graduate who was troubled by the idea of young people being forever tainted online by their youthful indiscretions. ''I was seeing articles about the 'Lord of the Flies' behavior that all of us engage in at that age,'' he told me, ''and it felt un-American that when the conduct was online, it could have permanent effects on the speaker and the victim. The right to new beginnings and the right to self-definition have always been among the most beautiful American ideals.''
ReputationDefender, which has customers in more than 100 countries, is the most successful of the handful of reputation-related start-ups that have been growing rapidly after the privacy concerns raised by Facebook and Google. (ReputationDefender recently raised $15 million in new venture capital.) For a fee, the company will monitor your online reputation, contacting Web sites individually and asking them to take down offending items. In addition, with the help of the kind of search-optimization technology that businesses use to raise their Google profiles, ReputationDefender can bombard the Web with positive or neutral information about its customers, either creating new Web pages or by multiplying links to existing ones to ensure they show up at the top of any Google search. (Services begin from $10 a month to $1,000 a year; for challenging cases, the price can rise into the tens of thousands.) By automatically raising the Google ranks of the positive links, ReputationDefender pushes the negative links to the back pages of a Google search, where they're harder to find. ''We're hearing stories of employers increasingly asking candidates to open up Facebook pages in front of them during job interviews,'' Fertik told me. ''Our customers include parents whose kids have talked about them on the Internet -- 'Mom didn't get the raise'; 'Dad got fired'; 'Mom and Dad are fighting a lot, and I'm worried they'll get a divorce.' ''
Companies like ReputationDefender offer a promising short-term solution for those who can afford it; but tweaking your Google profile may not be enough for reputation management in the near future, as Web 2.0 swiftly gives way to Web. 3.0 -- a world in which user-generated content is combined with a new layer of data aggregation and analysis and live video. For example, the Facebook application Photo Finder, by Face.com, uses facial-recognition and social-connections software to allow you to locate any photo of yourself or a friend on Facebook, regardless of whether the photo was ''tagged'' -- that is, the individual in the photo was identified by name. At the moment, Photo Finder allows you to identify only people on your contact list, but as facial-recognition technology becomes more widespread and sophisticated, it will almost certainly challenge our expectation of anonymity in public. People will be able to snap a cellphone picture (or video) of a stranger, plug the images into Google and pull up all tagged and untagged photos of that person that exist on the Web.
In the nearer future, Internet searches for images are likely to be combined with social-network aggregator search engines, like today's Spokeo and Pipl, which combine data from online sources -- including political contributions, blog posts, YouTube videos, Web comments, real estate listings and photo albums. Increasingly these aggregator sites will rank people's public and private reputations, like the new Web site Unvarnished, a reputation marketplace where people can write anonymous reviews about anyone. In the Web 3.0 world, Fertik predicts, people will be rated, assessed and scored based not on their creditworthiness but on their trustworthiness as good parents, good dates, good employees, good baby sitters or good insurance risks.
Anticipating these challenges, some legal scholars have begun imagining new laws that could allow people to correct, or escape from, the reputation scores that may govern our personal and professional interactions in the future. Jonathan Zittrain, who teaches cyberlaw at Harvard Law School, supports an idea he calls ''reputation bankruptcy,'' which would give people a chance to wipe their reputation slates clean and start over. To illustrate the problem, Zittrain showed me an iPhone app called Date Check, by Intelius, that offers a ''sleaze detector'' to let you investigate people you're thinking about dating -- it reports their criminal histories, address histories and summaries of their social-networking profiles. Services like Date Check, Zittrain said, could soon become even more sophisticated, rating a person's social desirability based on minute social measurements -- like how often he or she was approached or avoided by others at parties (a ranking that would be easy to calibrate under existing technology using cellphones and Bluetooth). Zittrain also speculated that, over time, more and more reputation queries will be processed by a handful of de facto reputation brokers -- like the existing consumer-reporting agencies Experian and Equifax, for example -- which will provide ratings for people based on their sociability, trustworthiness and employability.
To allow people to escape from negative scores generated by these services, Zittrain says that people should be allowed to declare ''reputation bankruptcy'' every 10 years or so, wiping out certain categories of ratings or sensitive information. His model is the Fair Credit Reporting Act, which requires consumer-reporting agencies to provide you with one free credit report a year -- so you can dispute negative or inaccurate information -- and prohibits the agencies from retaining negative information about bankruptcies, late payments or tax liens for more than 10 years. ''Like personal financial bankruptcy, or the way in which a state often seals a juvenile criminal record and gives a child a 'fresh start' as an adult,'' Zittrain writes in his book ''The Future of the Internet and How to Stop It,'' ''we ought to consider how to implement the idea of a second or third chance into our digital spaces.''
Another proposal, offered by Paul Ohm, a law professor at the University of Colorado, would make it illegal for employers to fire or refuse to hire anyone on the basis of legal off-duty conduct revealed in Facebook postings or Google profiles. ''Is it really fair for employers to know what you've put in your Facebook status updates?'' Ohm asks. ''We could say that Facebook status updates have taken the place of water-cooler chat, which employers were never supposed to overhear, and we could pass a prohibition on the sorts of information employers can and can't consider when they hire someone.''
Ohm became interested in this problem in the course of researching the ease with which we can learn the identities of people from supposedly anonymous personal data like movie preferences and health information. When Netflix, for example, released 100 million purportedly anonymous records revealing how almost 500,000 users had rated movies from 1999 to 2005, researchers were able to identify people in the database by name with a high degree of accuracy if they knew even only a little bit about their movie-watching preferences, obtained from public data posted on other ratings sites.
Ohm says he worries that employers would be able to use social-network-aggregator services to identify people's book and movie preferences and even Internet-search terms, and then fire or refuse to hire them on that basis. A handful of states -- including New York, California, Colorado and North Dakota -- broadly prohibit employers from discriminating against employees for legal off-duty conduct like smoking. Ohm suggests that these laws could be extended to prevent certain categories of employers from refusing to hire people based on Facebook pictures, status updates and other legal but embarrassing personal information. (In practice, these laws might be hard to enforce, since employers might not disclose the real reason for their hiring decisions, so employers, like credit-reporting agents, might also be required by law to disclose to job candidates the negative information in their digital files.)
Another legal option for responding to online setbacks to your reputation is to sue under current law. There's already a sharp rise in lawsuits known as Twittergation -- that is, suits to force Web sites to remove slanderous or false posts. Last year, Courtney Love was sued for libel by the fashion designer Boudoir Queen for supposedly slanderous comments posted on Twitter, on Love's MySpace page and on the designer's online marketplace-feedback page. But even if you win a U.S. libel lawsuit, the Web site doesn't have to take the offending material down any more than a newspaper that has lost a libel suit has to remove the offending content from its archive.
Some scholars, therefore, have proposed creating new legal rights to force Web sites to remove false or slanderous statements. Cass Sunstein, the Obama administration's regulatory czar, suggests in his new book, ''On Rumors,'' that there might be ''a general right to demand retraction after a clear demonstration that a statement is both false and damaging.'' (If a newspaper or blogger refuses to post a retraction, they might be liable for damages.) Sunstein adds that Web sites might be required to take down false postings after receiving notice that they are false -- an approach modeled on the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which requires Web sites to remove content that supposedly infringes intellectual property rights after receiving a complaint.
As Stacy Snyder's ''Drunken Pirate'' photo suggests, however, many people aren't worried about false information posted by others -- they're worried about true information they've posted about themselves when it is taken out of context or given undue weight. And defamation law doesn't apply to true information or statements of opinion. Some legal scholars want to expand the ability to sue over true but embarrassing violations of privacy -- although it appears to be a quixotic goal.
Daniel Solove, a George Washington University law professor and author of the book ''The Future of Reputation,'' says that laws forbidding people to breach confidences could be expanded to allow you to sue your Facebook friends if they share your embarrassing photos or posts in violation of your privacy settings. Expanding legal rights in this way, however, would run up against the First Amendment rights of others. Invoking the right to free speech, the U.S. Supreme Court has already held that the media can't be prohibited from publishing the name of a rape victim that they obtained from public records. Generally, American judges hold that if you disclose something to a few people, you can't stop them from sharing the information with the rest of the world.
That's one reason that the most promising solutions to the problem of embarrassing but true information online may be not legal but technological ones. Instead of suing after the damage is done (or hiring a firm to clean up our messes), we need to explore ways of pre-emptively making the offending words or pictures disappear.
EXPIRATION DATES Jorge Luis Borges, in his short story ''Funes, the Memorious,'' describes a young man who, as a result of a riding accident, has lost his ability to forget. Funes has a tremendous memory, but he is so lost in the details of everything he knows that he is unable to convert the information into knowledge and unable, as a result, to grow in wisdom. Viktor Mayer-Schonberger, in ''Delete,'' uses the Borges story as an emblem for the personal and social costs of being so shackled by our digital past that we are unable to evolve and learn from our mistakes. After reviewing the various possible legal solutions to this problem, Mayer-Schonberger says he is more convinced by a technological fix: namely, mimicking human forgetting with built-in expiration dates for data. He imagines a world in which digital-storage devices could be programmed to delete photos or blog posts or other data that have reached their expiration dates, and he suggests that users could be prompted to select an expiration date before saving any data.
This is not an entirely fanciful vision. Google not long ago decided to render all search queries anonymous after nine months (by deleting part of each Internet protocol address), and the upstart search engine Cuil has announced that it won't keep any personally identifiable information at all, a privacy feature that distinguishes it from Google. And there are already small-scale privacy apps that offer disappearing data. An app called TigerText allows text-message senders to set a time limit from one minute to 30 days after which the text disappears from the company's servers on which it is stored and therefore from the senders' and recipients' phones. (The founder of TigerText, Jeffrey Evans, has said he chose the name before the scandal involving Tiger Woods's supposed texts to a mistress.)
Expiration dates could be implemented more broadly in various ways. Researchers at the University of Washington, for example, are developing a technology called Vanish that makes electronic data ''self-destruct'' after a specified period of time. Instead of relying on Google, Facebook or Hotmail to delete the data that is stored ''in the cloud'' -- in other words, on their distributed servers -- Vanish encrypts the data and then ''shatters'' the encryption key. To read the data, your computer has to put the pieces of the key back together, but they ''erode'' or ''rust'' as time passes, and after a certain point the document can no longer be read. Tadayoshi Kohno, a designer of Vanish, told me that the system could provide expiration dates not only for e-mail but also for any data stored in the cloud, including photos or text or anything posted on Facebook, Google or blogs. The technology doesn't promise perfect control -- you can't stop someone from copying your photos or Facebook chats during the period in which they are not encrypted. But as Vanish improves, it could bring us much closer to a world where our data didn't linger forever.
Kohno told me that Facebook, if it wanted to, could implement expiration dates on its own platform, making our data disappear after, say, three days or three months unless a user specified that he wanted it to linger forever. It might be a more welcome option for Facebook to encourage the development of Vanish-style apps that would allow individual users who are concerned about privacy to make their own data disappear without imposing the default on all Facebook users.
So far, however, Zuckerberg, Facebook's C.E.O., has been moving in the opposite direction -- toward transparency rather than privacy. In defending Facebook's recent decision to make the default for profile information about friends and relationship status public rather than private, Zuckerberg said in January to the founder of the publication TechCrunch that Facebook had an obligation to reflect ''current social norms'' that favored exposure over privacy. ''People have really gotten comfortable not only sharing more information and different kinds but more openly and with more people, and that social norm is just something that has evolved over time,'' he said.
PRIVACY'S NEW NORMAL But not all Facebook users agree with Zuckerberg. Plenty of anecdotal evidence suggests that young people, having been burned by Facebook (and frustrated by its privacy policy, which at more than 5,000 words is longer than the U.S. Constitution), are savvier than older users about cleaning up their tagged photos and being careful about what they post. And two recent studies challenge the conventional wisdom that young people have no qualms about having their entire lives shared and preserved online forever. A University of California, Berkeley, study released in April found that large majorities of people between 18 and 22 said there should be laws that require Web sites to delete all stored information about individuals (88 percent) and that give people the right to know all the information Web sites know about them (62 percent) -- percentages that mirrored the privacy views of older adults. A recent Pew study found that 18-to-29-year-olds are actually more concerned about their online profiles than older people are, vigilantly deleting unwanted posts, removing their names from tagged photos and censoring themselves as they share personal information, because they are coming to understand the dangers of oversharing.
Still, Zuckerberg is on to something when he recognizes that the future of our online identities and reputations will ultimately be shaped not just by laws and technologies but also by changing social norms. And norms are already developing to recreate off-the-record spaces in public, with no photos, Twitter posts or blogging allowed. Milk and Honey, an exclusive bar on Manhattan's Lower East Side, requires potential members to sign an agreement promising not to blog about the bar's goings on or to post photos on social-networking sites, and other bars and nightclubs are adopting similar policies. I've been at dinners recently where someone has requested, in all seriousness, ''Please don't tweet this'' -- a custom that is likely to spread.
But what happens when people transgress those norms, using Twitter or tagging photos in ways that cause us serious embarrassment? Can we imagine a world in which new norms develop that make it easier for people to forgive and forget one another's digital sins?
That kind of social norm may be harder to develop. Alessandro Acquisti, a scholar at Carnegie Mellon University, studies the behavioral economics of privacy -- that is, the conscious and unconscious mental trade-offs we make in deciding whether to reveal or conceal information, balancing the benefits of sharing with the dangers of disclosure. He is conducting experiments about the ''decay time'' and the relative weight of good and bad information -- in other words, whether people discount positive information about you more quickly and heavily than they discount negative information about you. His research group's preliminary results suggest that if rumors spread about something good you did 10 years ago, like winning a prize, they will be discounted; but if rumors spread about something bad that you did 10 years ago, like driving drunk, that information has staying power. Research in behavioral psychology confirms that people pay more attention to bad rather than good information, and Acquisti says he fears that ''20 years from now, if all of us have a skeleton on Facebook, people may not discount it because it was an error in our youth.''
On the assumption that strangers may not make it easy for us to escape our pasts, Acquisti is also studying technologies and strategies of ''privacy nudges'' that might prompt people to think twice before sharing sensitive photos or information in the first place. Gmail, for example, has introduced a feature that forces you to think twice before sending drunken e-mail messages. When you enable the feature, called Mail Goggles, it prompts you to solve simple math problems before sending e-mail messages at times you're likely to regret. (By default, Mail Goggles is active only late on weekend nights.) Acquisti is investigating similar strategies of ''soft paternalism'' that might nudge people to hesitate before posting, say, drunken photos from Cancun. ''We could easily think about a system, when you are uploading certain photos, that immediately detects how sensitive the photo will be.''
A silly but surprisingly effective alternative might be to have an anthropomorphic icon -- a stern version of Microsoft's Clippy -- that could give you a reproachful look before you hit the send button. According to M. Ryan Calo, who runs the consumer-privacy project at Stanford Law School, experimenters studying strategies of ''visceral notice'' have found that when people navigate a Web site in the presence of a human-looking online character who seems to be actively following the cursor, they disclose less personal information than people who browse with no character or one who appears not to be paying attention. As people continue to experience the drawbacks of living in a world that never forgets, they may well learn to hesitate before posting information, with or without humanoid Clippys.
FORGIVENESS In addition to exposing less for the Web to forget, it might be helpful for us to explore new ways of living in a world that is slow to forgive. It's sobering, now that we live in a world misleadingly called a ''global village,'' to think about privacy in actual, small villages long ago. In the villages described in the Babylonian Talmud, for example, any kind of gossip or tale-bearing about other people -- oral or written, true or false, friendly or mean -- was considered a terrible sin because small communities have long memories and every word spoken about other people was thought to ascend to the heavenly cloud. (The digital cloud has made this metaphor literal.) But the Talmudic villages were, in fact, far more humane and forgiving than our brutal global village, where much of the content on the Internet would meet the Talmudic definition of gossip: although the Talmudic sages believed that God reads our thoughts and records them in the book of life, they also believed that God erases the book for those who atone for their sins by asking forgiveness of those they have wronged. In the Talmud, people have an obligation not to remind others of their past misdeeds, on the assumption they may have atoned and grown spiritually from their mistakes. ''If a man was a repentant [sinner],'' the Talmud says, ''one must not say to him, 'Remember your former deeds.' ''
Unlike God, however, the digital cloud rarely wipes our slates clean, and the keepers of the cloud today are sometimes less forgiving than their all-powerful divine predecessor. In an interview with Charlie Rose on PBS, Eric Schmidt, the C.E.O. of Google, said that ''the next generation is infinitely more social online'' -- and less private -- ''as evidenced by their Facebook pictures,'' which ''will be around when they're running for president years from now.'' Schmidt added: ''As long as the answer is that I chose to make a mess of myself with this picture, then it's fine. The issue is when somebody else does it.'' If people chose to expose themselves for 15 minutes of fame, Schmidt says, ''that's their choice, and they have to live with it.''
Schmidt added that the ''notion of control is fundamental to the evolution of these privacy-based solutions,'' pointing to Google Latitude, which allows people to broadcast their locations in real time.
This idea of privacy as a form of control is echoed by many privacy scholars, but it seems too harsh to say that if people like Stacy Snyder don't use their privacy settings responsibly, they have to live forever with the consequences. Privacy protects us from being unfairly judged out of context on the basis of snippets of private information that have been exposed against our will; but we can be just as unfairly judged out of context on the basis of snippets of public information that we have unwisely chosen to reveal to the wrong audience.
Moreover, the narrow focus on privacy as a form of control misses what really worries people on the Internet today. What people seem to want is not simply control over their privacy settings; they want control over their online reputations. But the idea that any of us can control our reputations is, of course, an unrealistic fantasy. The truth is we can't possibly control what others say or know or think about us in a world of Facebook and Google, nor can we realistically demand that others give us the deference and respect to which we think we're entitled. On the Internet, it turns out, we're not entitled to demand any particular respect at all, and if others don't have the empathy necessary to forgive our missteps, or the attention spans necessary to judge us in context, there's nothing we can do about it.
But if we can't control what others think or say or view about us, we can control our own reaction to photos, videos, blogs and Twitter posts that we feel unfairly represent us. A recent study suggests that people on Facebook and other social-networking sites express their real personalities, despite the widely held assumption that people try online to express an enhanced or idealized impression of themselves. Samuel Gosling, the University of Texas, Austin, psychology professor who conducted the study, told the Facebook blog, ''We found that judgments of people based on nothing but their Facebook profiles correlate pretty strongly with our measure of what that person is really like, and that measure consists of both how the profile owner sees him or herself and how that profile owner's friends see the profile owner.''
By comparing the online profiles of college-aged people in the United States and Germany with their actual personalities and their idealized personalities, or how they wanted to see themselves, Gosling found that the online profiles conveyed ''rather accurate images of the profile owners, either because people aren't trying to look good or because they are trying and failing to pull it off.'' (Personality impressions based on the online profiles were most accurate for extroverted people and least accurate for neurotic people, who cling tenaciously to an idealized self-image.)
Gosling is optimistic about the implications of his study for the possibility of digital forgiveness. He acknowledged that social technologies are forcing us to merge identities that used to be separate -- we can no longer have segmented selves like ''a home or family self, a friend self, a leisure self, a work self.'' But although he told Facebook, ''I have to find a way to reconcile my professor self with my having-a-few-drinks self,'' he also suggested that as all of us have to merge our public and private identities, photos showing us having a few drinks on Facebook will no longer seem so scandalous. ''You see your accountant going out on weekends and attending clown conventions, that no longer makes you think that he's not a good accountant. We're coming to terms and reconciling with that merging of identities.''
Perhaps society will become more forgiving of drunken Facebook pictures in the way Gosling says he expects it might. And some may welcome the end of the segmented self, on the grounds that it will discourage bad behavior and hypocrisy: it's harder to have clandestine affairs when you're broadcasting your every move on Facebook, Twitter and Foursquare. But a humane society values privacy, because it allows people to cultivate different aspects of their personalities in different contexts; and at the moment, the enforced merging of identities that used to be separate is leaving many casualties in its wake. Stacy Snyder couldn't reconcile her ''aspiring-teacher self'' with her ''having-a-few-drinks self'': even the impression, correct or not, that she had a drink in a pirate hat at an off-campus party was enough to derail her teaching career.
That doesn't mean, however, that it had to derail her life. After taking down her MySpace profile, Snyder is understandably trying to maintain her privacy: her lawyer told me in a recent interview that she is now working in human resources; she did not respond to a request for comment. But her success as a human being who can change and evolve, learning from her mistakes and growing in wisdom, has nothing to do with the digital file she can never entirely escape. Our character, ultimately, can't be judged by strangers on the basis of our Facebook or Google profiles; it can be judged by only those who know us and have time to evaluate our strengths and weaknesses, face to face and in context, with insight and understanding. In the meantime, as all of us stumble over the challenges of living in a world without forgetting, we need to learn new forms of empathy, new ways of defining ourselves without reference to what others say about us and new ways of forgiving one another for the digital trails that will follow us forever.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES WOJCIK. PROP STYLIST: MEGAN CAPONETTO) (MM31
MM33
MM34
 MM37) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); HISTORY (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (75%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (74%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (69%); DISMISSALS (67%); SEARCH ENGINES (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LANCASTER, PA, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



612 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE MEDIUM; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Just Friends

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA HEFFERNAN

 BODY:
Why would one person seek another in our cynical world if not for goods, services, sex or money?
With my question in mind, I turned to the strange section of Craigslist labeled Strictly Platonic.
Craigslist, the online classified-ad emporium that now attracts more than 20 billion page views every month, promotes transactional relationships. People find uses for other people -- very specific uses. In Lost and Found, you're valuable to the degree that you've found a Jack Russell terrier in East Meadow, N.Y., or a crucifix on Meschutt Beach in Hampton Bays. On the notorious Casual Encounters section, you're valuable -- to one ''insatiable married woman in search of FUN,'' anyway -- if you're ''cute, outgoing, live in Brooklyn (near Kings Plaza), under 33, have a car.''
On Strictly Platonic, I wondered if I would find people who consider themselves above the specialized, commodified human relationships that are the stock-in-trade of Web matchmaking. Could Strictly Platonic denizens be actual Platonists of one kind or another, looking for something deeper or higher than they might find on sections like Biz Dev or Women Seeking Women or even Misc Romance? 
Plato's theory of forms, after all, has it that beyond the material world -- the all-too-human world that's anatomized in icky detail in the vast majority of Craigslist postings -- are ideal archetypes. These archetypes are the most real things in the universe. A platonic relationship is, therefore, a human relationship that inspires appreciation for the idealized human, the divine. The relationship must be chaste lest it become an end in itself and a distraction from spiritual matters.
The Strictly Platonic section of the New York City Craigslist -- while corrupted here and there by those seeking sexual relationships that they imagine might be more interesting or plausible under the misleading ''platonic'' banner -- is filled with minds seeking other minds. As if to certify noncarnal intentions, more than one poster emphasizes that appearance doesn't matter. As someone puts it: ''I don't need a pic nor want to know if you're skinny, normal, 'curvy,' whatever.'' The odd ''I couldn't/could care less'' locution also appears with some frequency in Strictly Platonic, often with respect to age and race.
And while they stress their lofty indifferences, the members of the Strictly Platonic crowd are equally passionate about their desire: conversation, conversation, conversation. Live, e-mail, phone, text, chat -- platonic people, it seems, want people to talk to.
A 55-year-old man wants someone to read a ''nice thoughtful e-mail'' from him every morning. A 40-year-old man seeks ''systematic, rigorous thinkers'' to talk over ''philosophy, aesthetics, linguistics and economic theory.'' A 54-year-old woman looks for phone talks about ''job, men, losing weight, goals we hope to accomplish.'' A woman imagines a group of women discussing whether ''pets have spirituality, why we are here, the role of spiritual leaders and masters, sowing and reaping or the 'law of returns,' what possibly could happen after death and much more.''
The friends sought on Strictly Platonic fall into various categories. Widely desired are dance partners, fellow insomniacs, consorts for movies and concerts, consolers after heartbreaks, workout partners, sparring partners, cultural-exchange groups, drinking buddies and pot-smoking buddies. A surprising number of Strictly Platonic posters -- especially W4W, or women looking for women -- request ''partners in crime,'' which seems to mean companions in shopping, dieting, dancing and movies.
Some posters on Strictly Platonic want to buy things for other people; some posters want things bought for them. One woman is eager to listen to any guy, any guy at all, natter on about Park Slope in Brooklyn -- ''You can show me where you like to shop, tell me some history about the area or chitchat about whatever you want'' -- if he will treat her to a single glass of wine. Another one is willing to pick up the tab for everything and even prove that his wife knows he is on Craigslist looking for female friends, if a woman will just go see some plays with him.
A Strictly Platonic poster generally has something in the world he desires to see or enjoy -- something grand, like nature, philosophy, ''all the city has to offer'' -- and he has discovered he needs another person to help him do it. But he doesn't want to fall in love with that person, or not just yet; so he asks for someone to go biking with -- or swimming. Or bar-hopping.
The forum is enlightening because it represents a collaborative effort to define ''platonic'' -- and define it against nearly everything else on Craigslist. You would think the word would be debased by now. But it's surprisingly intact. Maybe that's why we still need some notion of platonism in everyday life. Once we've stipulated that commercial culture is that which debases everything, we need a popular concept that helps us resist debasement.
Points of Entry: This Week's Recommendations
IT'S ALL GREEK For the Hellenist who has everything, consider ''Apanta ta tou Platonos. Omnia Platonis Opera,'' from Krown & Spellman Booksellers, available on Abebooks for $65,000. It's a 1513 Venetian edition in Greek, with a Welsh inscription.
WHAT DEBT CRISIS? Lots of localized Strictly Platonic listings contribute to the pop definition of ''platonic.'' When it comes to Plato's homeland, however, you'll find ''Party people looking for more party people!!'' On Craigslist Greece.
SOUL WINDOWS Strictly Platonic is to philosophical loners as Craigslist's Missed Connections is to romantic hipsters. The New York City version of the section, where posters register fleeting glances, is heavy on eye-contact encounters on the L train to and from Brooklyn.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN VAN AELST) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MASHA KRASNOVA-SHABAEVA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (77%); DOGS (70%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



613 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: We're Gonna Be Sorry

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
When I first heard on Thursday that Senate Democrats were abandoning the effort to pass an energy/climate bill that would begin to cap greenhouse gases that cause global warming and promote renewable energy that could diminish our addiction to oil, I remembered something that Joe Romm, the climateprogress.org blogger, once said: The best thing about improvements in health care is that all the climate-change deniers are now going to live long enough to see how wrong they were.
Alas, so are the rest of us. I could blame Republicans for the fact that not one G.O.P. senator indicated a willingness to vote for a bill that would put the slightest price on carbon. I could blame the Democratic senators who were also waffling. I could blame President Obama for his disappearing act on energy and spending more time reading the polls than changing the polls. I could blame the Chamber of Commerce and the fossil-fuel lobby for spending bags of money to subvert this bill. But the truth is, the public, confused and stressed by the last two years, never got mobilized to press for this legislation. We will regret it. 
We've basically decided to keep pumping greenhouse gases into Mother Nature's operating system and take our chances that the results will be benign -- even though a vast majority of scientists warn that this will not be so. Fasten your seat belts. As the environmentalist Rob Watson likes to say: ''Mother Nature is just chemistry, biology and physics. That's all she is.'' You cannot sweet-talk her. You cannot spin her. You cannot tell her that the oil companies say climate change is a hoax. No, Mother Nature is going to do whatever chemistry, biology and physics dictate, and ''Mother Nature always bats last, and she always bats 1.000,'' says Watson. Do not mess with Mother Nature. But that is just what we're doing.
Since I don't have anything else to say, I will just fill out this column with a few news stories and e-mails that came across my desk in the past few days:
Just as the U.S. Senate was abandoning plans for a U.S. cap-and-trade system, this article ran in The China Daily: ''BEIJING -- The country is set to begin domestic carbon trading programs during its 12th Five-Year Plan period (2011-2015) to help it meet its 2020 carbon intensity target. The decision was made at a closed-door meeting chaired by Xie Zhenhua, deputy director of the National Development and Reform Commission ... Putting a price on carbon is a crucial step for the country to employ the market to reduce its carbon emissions and genuinely shift to a low-carbon economy, industry analysts said.''
As we East Coasters know, it's been extremely hot here this summer, with records broken. But, hey, you could be living in Russia, where ABC News recently reported that a ''heat wave, which has lasted for weeks, has Russia suffering its worst drought in 130 years. In some parts of the country, temperatures have reached 105 degrees.'' Moscow's high the other day was 93 degrees. The average temperature in July for the city is 76 degrees. The BBC reported that to keep cool ''at lakes and rivers around Moscow, groups of revelers can be seen knocking back vodka and then plunging into the water. The result is predictable -- 233 people have drowned in the last week alone.''
A day before the climate bill went down, Lew Hay, the C.E.O. of NextEra Energy, which owns Florida Power & Light, one of the nation's biggest utilities, e-mailed to say that if the Senate would set a price on carbon and requirements for renewal energy, utilities like his would have the price certainty they need to make the big next-generation investments, including nuclear. ''If we invest an additional $3 billion a year or so on clean energy, that's roughly 50,000 jobs over the next five years,'' said Hay. (Say goodbye to that.)
Making our country more energy efficient is not some green feel-good thing. Retired Brig. Gen. Steve Anderson, who was Gen. David Petraeus's senior logistician in Iraq, e-mailed to say that ''over 1,000 Americans have been killed in Iraq and Afghanistan hauling fuel to air-condition tents and buildings. If our military would simply insulate their structures, it would save billions of dollars and, more importantly, save lives of truck drivers and escorts. ... And will take lots of big fuel trucks (a k a Taliban Targets) off the road, expediting the end of the conflict.''
The last word goes to the contrarian hedge fund manager Jeremy Grantham, who in his July letter to investors, noted: ''Conspiracy theorists claim to believe that global warming is a carefully constructed hoax driven by scientists desperate for ... what? Being needled by nonscientific newspaper reports, by blogs and by right-wing politicians and think tanks? I have a much simpler but plausible 'conspiracy theory': the fossil energy companies, driven by the need to protect hundreds of billions of dollars of profits, encourage obfuscation of the inconvenient scientific results. I, for one, admire them for their P.R. skills, while wondering, as always: ''Have they no grandchildren?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); CHEMISTRY (88%); EMISSIONS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); PHYSICS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (51%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (51%) CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



614 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: Unsafe at Any Meal

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHLOSSER. 
Eric Schlosser is the author of ''Fast Food Nation'' and a co-producer of the documentary ''Food, Inc.''

 BODY:
Monterey, Calif.
EVERY day, about 200,000 Americans are sickened by contaminated food. Every year, about 325,000 are hospitalized by a food-borne illness. And the number who are killed annually by something they ate is roughly the same as the number of Americans who've been killed in Iraq and Afghanistan since 2003.
Those estimates, from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, suggest the scale of the problem. But they fail to convey the human toll. The elderly and people with compromised immune systems face an elevated risk from food-borne pathogens like listeria, campylobacter and salmonella. By far the most vulnerable group, however, are children under the age of 4. Our food will never be perfectly safe -- and yet if the Senate fails to pass the food safety legislation now awaiting a vote, tens of thousands of American children will become needlessly and sometimes fatally ill. 
Almost one year ago, the House of Representatives passed the Food Safety Enhancement Act with bipartisan support. A similar bill, the F.D.A. Food Safety Modernization Act, was unanimously approved by the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee in November. This legislation would grant the Food and Drug Administration, which has oversight over 80 percent of the nation's food, the authority to test widely for dangerous pathogens and improve the agency's ability to trace outbreaks back to their source. Most important, it would finally give the agency the power to order the recall of contaminated foods -- and to punish companies that knowingly sell them.
This bill is supported by an unusual set of advocacy groups: the American Public Health Association, Consumers Union, the Center for Science in the Public Interest, the United States Chamber of Commerce and the Grocery Manufacturers Association, among others. Last week, a poll for Consumers Union found that 80 percent of Americans want Congress to empower the F.D.A. to recall tainted foods.
You'd think that a bill with such broad support, on a public health issue of such fundamental importance, would easily reach the floor of the Senate for a vote. But it has been languishing, stuck in some legislative limbo. If it fails to gain passage by the end of this session, Congress will have to start from scratch again next year.
Food processors reluctant to oppose the bill openly will be delighted if it dies a quiet death. That's because, right now, very few cases of food poisoning are ever actually linked to what the person ate, and companies that sell contaminated products routinely avoid liability. The economic cost is instead imposed on society. And it's a huge cost. According to a recent study sponsored by the Pew Charitable Trusts, the annual health-related cost of food-borne illness in the United States is about $152 billion.
Without tough food safety rules, a perverse economic incentive guides the marketplace. Adulterated food is cheaper to produce than safe food. Since consumers cannot tell the difference between the two, companies that try to do the right thing are forced to compete with companies that couldn't care less.
So the law of the jungle prevails, as Upton Sinclair noted more than a century ago. In those days, many companies had no qualms about selling children's candy colored with lethal heavy metals and rancid food laced with toxic chemicals to disguise the stench; such abuses were widespread. And some of the strongest support for President Theodore Roosevelt's food safety crusade came from processors (like the H. J. Heinz Company) that were outraged by the unfair advantage their competitors gained by selling cheap, dangerous, adulterated food.
The Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906 helped to eliminate many unsafe practices. But the recent centralization and industrialization of the American food system poses new kinds of threats.
Today, a problem at a single factory can swiftly lead to an outbreak that extends nationwide. Last year's peanut butter recall illustrates what can go wrong. Executives at the Peanut Corporation of America knew that peanut butter from their filthy, rodent-infested plant was testing positive for salmonella -- but shipped it anyway, for months.
Thousands of different products, manufactured by more than 200 companies, including candies and cookies marketed to children, were potentially tainted thanks to that one plant. And in the end, roughly 20,000 Americans got salmonella; about half of them were under the age of 16 and one-fifth were younger than 5.
The enormous rise in imported food also exposes American consumers to food safety lapses overseas. In recent years, China has been responsible for food scandals that bring to mind the United States in the days of Upton Sinclair: Chinese companies have been caught adding lead-based whiteners to pasta and selling beverages made with industrial alcohol. Two years ago, almost 300,000 Chinese infants were sickened by baby formula that had been adulterated with melamine, a cheap but toxic chemical. The overuse of antibiotics and pesticides in Chinese agriculture is rampant.
Despite those food safety problems, China has become the largest exporter of food to the United States after Canada and Mexico. About 60 percent of the apple juice in America -- like peanut butter, a product consumed largely by children -- now comes from China. This is yet another reason that passage of the F.D.A. modernization act is so urgent; it would, for the first time, subject foods from overseas to the same standards as those produced in the United States.
Last year, President Obama called for measures that would ''upgrade our food safety laws for the 21st century,'' and this bill is a good first step. The president has asked lawmakers to pass the legislation, saying that it would provide ''the federal government with the appropriate tools to accomplish its core food safety goals.''
For months, however, the Internet has been rife with wild rumors and accusations: that the bill is really a subterfuge cleverly designed to eliminate small farms and strengthen the grip of industrial agriculture; that it would outlaw organic production; that it would hand over the nation's food supply to Monsanto.
Those arguments may be sincere. But the bill very clearly instructs the Food and Drug Administration to focus its enforcement efforts on plants that pose the greatest risk of causing large-scale outbreaks. And the bill's wording can still be clarified so that mom-and-pop producers aren't threatened by heavy-handed government regulations.
What the legislation actually seeks is some restraint on unchecked corporate power. We've seen what happens when Wall Street is allowed to regulate itself and when the oil industry is allowed to regulate itself. How could it possibly make sense to let the food industry continue to write its own rules?
I've come to know families that were devastated by a food-borne illness. A great deal of harm, inflicted on some of the weakest members of society, can be avoided with a few simple reforms. Nobody should lose a child because the Senate lacks the will and the leadership to act.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCT SAFETY (90%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BACTERIA (90%); FOOD SAFETY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); CONSUMER LAW (88%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (88%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); PRODUCT RECALLS (78%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (76%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (76%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (76%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); CHILDREN (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (73%); APPROVALS (72%); FOOD MFG (69%); FOUNDATIONS (66%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (82%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (90%); AFGHANISTAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



615 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; FAMILY MATTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Bedtime Stories

BYLINE: By BRUCE FEILER. 
Bruce Feiler is the author, most recently, of ''The Council of Dads.'' Family Matters appears monthly.

 BODY:
MY grandparents had a secret. When I was growing up in Savannah, Ga., in the 1970s, my paternal grandparents lived in the house immediately behind us. (My uncle lived next door in a set-up my father likened to Faulkner.) But my grandparents did something in their otherwise typical suburban home that was always something of a mystery to me.
They slept in separate bedrooms.
I speculated that this bifurcated sleeping arrangement had something to do with Southern gentility, Papa's late-night ham radio habit, or some unseen rift in their marriage. But since my parents slept in side-by-side twin beds, and my wife and I later chose a king-size mattress, I assumed separate bedrooms had gone the way of other bygone relics, like sleeping caps or corsets. 
I was wrong. It turns out my grandparents were ahead of their time.
Nearly one in four American couples sleep in separate bedrooms or beds, the National Sleep Foundation reported in a 2005 survey. Recent studies in England and Japan have found similar results. And the National Association of Home Builders says it expects 60 percent of custom homes to have dual master bedrooms by 2015.
Even Hollywood is catching on. The former bodyguard for Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt told In Touch Weekly recently that the couple often sleeps in separate rooms. (Ms. Jolie informed Vanity Fair that the couple sometimes sleeps in one ''giant bed'' with their six children.) In Touch also reported this spring that five months after Kevin Jonas of the Jonas Brothers traded his purity ring for a wedding band, he was sleeping separately from his wife. The reason, a friend said: ''He snores like a freight train.''
(In Touch apparently has become the Official Chronicler of American Bedding.)
The marital bed, once the symbol of American matrimony on a par with the diamond ring, the tiered wedding cake and his-and-hers martinis, is threatened with extinction. ''Till Death Do Us Part'' is fast becoming ''Till Sleep Do Us Part.''
Separate sleepers cite a bevy of reasons for their habit, including apnea, restless leg syndrome, his insistence on watching ''SportsCenter,'' her need to get up early for yoga. As Barbara Tober, the former chairwoman of the Museum of Arts and Design, told The New York Times recently, ''Not that we don't love each other, but at a certain point you just want your own room.''
''What happened in the last decade,'' said Dr. Meir Kryger, a sleep specialist at Gaylord Hospital in Connecticut, ''is that people are suddenly making their own sleep a priority. If their rest is being impaired by their partner, the attitude now is that I don't have to put up with this.''
Children represent another threat. Dr. William Sears, a leader of the ''attachment parenting'' movement, reports in the 2005 ''Baby Sleep Book'' that two-thirds of American families say they ''sometimes'' or ''always'' sleep with a child in their bed. Another 16 percent welcome a pet under the covers.
Technology is an even greater intrusion. Forget the tired debate about TV in the bedroom; how about your ex's Twitter feed? Anyone who's around teenage girls or techy men knows someone who checks e-mail, text messages or Facebook pages after turning out the light at night and before going to the bathroom in the morning.
With all this commotion, it's no wonder the bed has become such an unappealing place to sleep. Between whining kids, buzzing BlackBerrys, stacks of unpaid bills and overturned bottles of Evian and Ambien, the bedroom has become more crowded than the kitchen. If my house is any indication (''You get up early with the kids on Monday, I'll move the car on Tuesday''), my bed needs its own Outlook calendar.
This would all be fine, just another example of how modern life has managed to overrun the institutions once used to contain it, if it weren't that the bed is the one place where couples spend most of their time together. In an age when partners no longer eat together, exercise together or pray together, sleeping together may be the last bastion of togetherness in American relationships. If pillow talk dies, can throwing in the towel be far behind?
Fortunately, we know how to handle situations like this. We need a campaign. One of those national initiatives politicians are always calling for. ''The War on Bed Divorce,'' call it, or ''Brush Up on Your Bediquette.'' Thirty-five years after ''Save the Whales,'' it's time for ''Save the Sheets.''
To start, we can ask the editors at In Touch to find us a celebrity spokesperson to point out that many sleep problems are fixable. As Dr. Kryger observed, ''What saddens me is that people are sleeping apart for conditions that are easily treatable.'' Page Dr. Gupta, Mr. Jonas! That snoring can be silenced.
Next, we can highlight some benefits of co-sleeping. Paul C. Rosenblatt, a psychiatry professor at the University of Minnesota, interviewed 42 couples for his book ''Two in a Bed: The Social System of Couple Bed Sharing'' and came to some surprising conclusions.
Co-sleeping is better for your health. His subjects mentioned seizures, diabetic shock and other medical emergencies that would have gone undetected if not for a proximate partner.
Co-sleeping is better for your sex life. ''I talked to plenty of men (and women) who think that sexual intercourse is far more frequent if they have access to their partner,'' Dr. Rosenblatt said. ''If you want it, share a bed.''
Co-sleeping is better for your security. Women, in particular, feel safer from intruders when sleeping with another person.
In the end, the best way to enhance co-sleeping may be to emphasize mattress manners. Here are four steps to restoring honor and dignity to the American bed.
1. Make it. It takes less than a minute; it makes you feel good all day; it's the opening note for a good night's sleep.
2. Declutter it. Feng shui masters say that adjusting the environs around a bed can bring couples closer. Time to admit you're not going to read those books gathering dust on your night stand or order things from those catalogs from before the recession. To improve harmony, Steven Post, a feng shui consultant in San Francisco, recommends wrapping the legs of your bed in red (the color of romance and prosperity) or draping a red cloth over the line that separates the two box springs under a king mattress.
3. Sanctify it. Sleep specialists say that those who pray before they go to bed are more likely to get a good night's sleep. Dr. Kryger says any ritual will do, including meditating, reading a poem or keeping a journal.
4. Choreograph it. Dr. Rosenblatt found that most couples sleep best when they face away from each other, the better to avoid flexing knees and ''that little gush of bad breath.'' Map out a strategy, he said, and adjust it frequently. ''Sleeping together is an achievement.''
For years, I fell short of that achievement. I was a poor sleeper, while my wife was a pro. Then I got cancer and spent nine months in bed. I feared my wife would be relegated to the sofa, but she stayed by my side, and her presence, occasional touch and peaceful breathing brought comfort to many long nights. Maybe it was the act of confronting my worst fears, but by the end of that year, I was cured of my restlessness. As my Cold War-era grandparents might have appreciated, forced to come face-to-face with my nightmares, I learned to stop worrying and love my bed.
That's our little secret.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TOGETHERNESS: The bedroom, circa 1950. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADVERTISING ARCHIVE/COURTESY EVERETT COLLECTION) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDPARENTS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); SLEEP (76%); SLEEP DISORDERS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); TRAINS (50%)

PERSON: ANGELINA JOLIE (50%); JOE JONAS (50%); NICK JONAS (50%); BRAD PITT (50%); KEVIN JONAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAVANNAH, GA, USA (90%) GEORGIA, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



616 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Kenneth S. Horn

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Horn, 53, is the president and founder of Alchemy Properties Inc., a real estate development company that specializes in condominiums, including Lion's Head in Chelsea and Hudson Hill on West 58th Street. Among Alchemy's recent projects is the 95-unit Griffin Court on 10th Avenue and 53rd Street, which has one of the largest outdoor murals in the city.
Q What's the status of Griffin Court? 
A Griffin Court will be finished the beginning to middle of August. We're doing some soft marketing now. We're working on about a dozen deals -- we have four or five signed, and another six or seven that we're negotiating. It's a real interesting project, because the building is built around a 9,000-square-foot courtyard. Then we have the mural.
Q Tell me about the mural.
A It's on two walls facing 10th Avenue about six stories high -- I believe it's larger than the ''Crack Is Wack'' mural by Keith Haring -- and it depicts a combination of nature and buildings, abstract and concrete. The artist wanted to tie in Central Park, the water and the city. On one wall you have an image and on the other a reflection of the image.
We held an international contest and got proposals from 80 people, some as far away as Poland and Russia. Some of the entries were New York-centric, some comical, others bizarre. One depicted a pretty grotesque scene on the subway -- not something you'd want to put up on a wall for the public to see. Another was a huge canvas of orange and in the middle was a bunny eating a carrot. We chose a local Brooklyn artist, Corinne Ulmann.
Q How involved was the painting part?
A We had to hire a separate company to paint it. They imprinted various parts of the mural on paper, then rolled the paper out on the wall and imprinted a charcoal outline. Two or three guys on a scaffold painted the colors in accordance with a directory.
Q Like a paint by numbers.
A We don't like to say that.
Q What other projects are you working on?
A We just got our temporary certificate of occupancy on the Isis on the Upper East Side, which has 32 units. We're in the presale stage, sold about seven or eight. And we just closed on a site on 15th Street, between Fifth and Sixth. We're building an addition for St. Xavier High School and a residential tower on top of it with 60 to 65 units.
Q Are your new buildings green?A We always do our best to make a building green. At Griffin Court, for example, the amount of vegetation there is probably 10 times the amount you need to get a green-certified roof. The problem is it's expensive to apply for LEED certification -- I think it was like a quarter of a million dollars. In a larger building, the economies of scale work, but in a smaller building, when you're a small developer, it hurts.
Q Do you dream of someday becoming a larger developer?
A No, we really like our niche.
Q How would you describe your business?
A Our niche is high-end boutique condos, between 40 and 100 units. We handle everything: we act as a construction manager, we do the marketing and the development. We have about 20, 25 people working for us. We do all the contracts and sales out of this office so we're pretty hands-on.
Q And your pricing strategy?
A On some projects we can be competitive. The strategy is to look at the competition and try to build a better mousetrap and price it accordingly. We want to be in a position where we can sell out units as quickly as possible.
Q Are you offering fewer concessions to buyers now?
A Absolutely. A perfect example is a building we're finishing up -- 462 West 58th Street. When we started to sell it in October '09, we were picking up mansion and transfer taxes and probably giving people close to 12 to 14 percent off asking. Today we are still picking up transfer and mansion taxes, and we're giving people maybe 1 or 2 percent off asking.
Q You started out as a lawyer. Why the switch to developer?
A I practiced real estate law for about three years, but realized the business end was more interesting. So ... what I ended up doing was start a gelato company.
I went to Italy, learned to make gelato and raised some money. I opened two stores in New York -- Gran Gelato -- and franchised two out in Long Island.
After I sold the company, I interviewed with a lawyer who said to me, ''You don't want to be a lawyer, but I have a client who would be perfect, combining your interest in real estate and entrepreneurial spirit.'' I joined a guy who was a developer and worked for him for five years. I started my company in the '90s, when the market was absolutely awful.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (87%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); PAINTING (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); GREEN BUILDING (73%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



617 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: The Heart of a Realist

BYLINE: By MARK ATWOOD LAWRENCE. 
Mark Atwood Lawrence teaches history at the University of Texas at Austin. His latest book is ''The Vietnam War: A Concise International History.''

 BODY:
THROUGH THE HISTORY OF THE COLD WAR
The Correspondence of George F. Kennan and John Lukacs
Edited by John Lukacs
276 pp. University of Pennsylvania Press. $39.95
When the former diplomat and Pulitzer Prize-winning writer George F. Kennan died in 2005, obituary writers were quick to proclaim him one of the most influential Americans of his age. By conceiving the ''containment'' strategy that guided United States foreign policy throughout the cold war, Kennan not only stamped his ideas on an entire era of the nation's history but also, eulogists suggested, pointed the way to the ultimate American victory over Soviet Communism.
The curious thing about such praise is that Kennan himself vigorously disagreed. During his lifetime, he complained bitterly that the nation's leaders had misunderstood his ideas and initiated a far more militaristic and dangerous confrontation with the Soviet Union than he ever intended. But Kennan's unease with his place in American history ran deeper. Far from viewing himself as an epoch-defining figure, he spent much of his life feeling out of sync with both his country and his times. 
This powerful sense of estrangement from mainstream America pervades ''Through the History of the Cold War,'' a gloomy but fascinating volume containing more than 200 letters exchanged by Kennan and John Lukacs over half a century. The correspondence began in 1952, when Lukacs, a Hungarian emigre who later became a prolific historian of modern Europe, wrote Kennan to commend his view that the United States needed to resist Soviet expansion through political and economic, rather than military, means. To Lukacs's surprise, Kennan wrote back.
As their literary careers grew over the following decades, their letters ranged far beyond foreign affairs to history, philosophy and theology, giving their correspondence a weightier, more abstract tone as time passed. Lukacs's admiration for Kennan led him to publish an elegiac biography of his friend in 2007 and then to set about editing their letters for a separate book. His goal with this collection, Lukacs explains in his introduction, was partly to pay tribute to Kennan and partly to lay out the idiosyncratic opinions that they shared.
The collection conveys their enormous erudition and (especially on Kennan's side) stylistic brilliance. More than anything, though, the book poses anew, in an admirably lean and accessible way, a question that has long swirled around Kennan: What were the intellectual underpinnings of his insistence on a restrained, ''realist'' foreign policy that shunned bold efforts to remake the world in the American image?
One answer is surely Kennan's inordinately pessimistic assessment of human capabilities to effect change on a grand scale. If the world managed to escape catastrophic war, he wrote in one characteristically dark letter in 1953, ''it will not be because of ourselves but despite of ourselves: by virtue, that is, of the fact that we have so little, rather than so much, control over the course of events.'' Mere randomness was, for Kennan, a better bet for a happy outcome than the conscious efforts of well-intentioned people. Even they, after all, were constrained by ''man's fallen state.''
But Kennan's ideas about the United States' role in the world also sprang from his particular disdain for American democracy. An unashamed elitist ill at ease with his own modest upbringing in Milwaukee, he viewed Americans as dangerously susceptible to the pedestrian tastes of the majority, unmoored as they were from the aristocratic sensibilities that Kennan considered the best hope for resisting mindless enthusiasms. If he doubted Americans' abilities to act sensibly on the global stage during the early cold war, he grew even more skeptical in an era of mass communications and mounting immigration. The United States was, he wrote in 1984, ''a politically unsuccessful and tragic country'' that lay ''always vulnerable to abuse and harassment at the hands of the dominant forces of the moment.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); HISTORY (90%); COLD WAR (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); WRITERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); LITERATURE (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); PHILOSOPHY (73%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (62%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); HUNGARY (69%)

TITLE: Through The History of the Cold War: The Correspondence of George F. Kennan and John Lukacs (Book)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



618 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 962 words

PERSON: James E. Akins 

HEADLINE: James E. Akins, Ex-Envoy To Saudi Arabia, Dies at 83

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
James E. Akins, the State Department's top energy expert and then ambassador to Saudi Arabia, who warned more than a year in advance of the 1973 Arab oil embargo that oil-exporting nations were poised to restrict shipments, died on July 15 in Mitchellville, Md. He was 83.
His death, at an assisted-living center, was caused by a heart attack, his family said. He had earlier lived in Washington. 
Mr. Akins made his prediction after attending a meeting of Arab petroleum producers in May 1972 in Algiers, where he confirmed that oil-exporting nations were eager to take advantage of the United States' increasing dependence on the crude they pumped. The countries, he said, could not spend as much money as they were getting for their oil, and realized that ''oil in the ground is as good as oil in the bank.''
He soon laid out the grim economics of the energy future in an influential article in the journal Foreign Affairs in April 1973. He correctly predicted that world consumption of oil for the next 12 years would exceed that of all previous human history, and warned that the loss of any two Middle Eastern countries' production would push oil prices from $3 a barrel to more than $5. In fact, they reached $39.50.
The first shock came with the Middle East war that October. After Israel was attacked by Egypt and Syria, the United States pledged to resupply its military. Arab members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries responded by raising the price of crude by 70 percent, agreed to production cutbacks to enforce the new price and banned exports to the United States and selected other nations. The embargo ended in March 1974, after delivering a body blow to the global economy and forcing Americans to endure gasoline rationing and long lines at service stations.
Mr. Akins had been promoted from director of fuels and energy at the State Department to ambassador to Saudi Arabia the month before the embargo began.
One of his first acts was to send a confidential message to executives of the major oil companies that were forming a consortium, called Aramco, to pump oil in Saudi Arabia. He asked them ''to use their contacts at the highest levels'' of the United States government to ''hammer home the point that oil restrictions are not going to be lifted unless political struggle is settled in a manner satisfactory to Arabs.''
Mr. Akins was advocating at least some measure of support for Arab claims against Israel, something he would often do later in life as an industry consultant, and he was criticized for it. ''Here he was, the American ambassador to Saudi Arabia, attempting to reinforce the Arabs' blackmail of the United States,'' Steven Emerson wrote in his book ''The American House of Saud'' (1985).
Mr. Akins said he was simply doing his job of promoting American interests, which may or may not coincide with those of Israel, and warning against the West's growing dependence on imported oil.
''Our foreign policy was so pro-Israel that we alienated the Arabs,'' he said in a speech in 1994, ''yet our energy policy, such as it was, made us dependent on Arab oil.''
But as Robert D. Kaplan wrote in his book ''Arabists: The Romance of an American Elite'' (1995), Mr. Akins also maintained that he had tried to help build understanding between Saudi Arabia and Israel, asserting that he had moved King Faisal from eschewing the very idea of a Jewish state to accepting the legitimacy of Israel within the borders that existed before its 1967 war with Arab countries.
Mr. Akins was indeed an Arabist, as diplomats expert in Arab politics and culture were often called, usually by outsiders and often derisively. In 1979, in an interview in Time magazine, he was prescient in warning of a ''growing wave of anti-Americanism'' in Saudi Arabia, home to 15 of 19 hijackers who attacked the United States on Sept. 11, 2001.
Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger fired Mr. Akins after a series of clashes between them. One involved Mr. Akins's assertion -- dismissed as ''absurd'' by Mr. Kissinger -- that Mr. Kissinger had approved of Iran's raising oil prices to buy American arms. Another involved Mr. Akins's assertion that a top foreign policy maker, perhaps Mr. Kissinger, was pondering a United States takeover of Middle East oil fields.
Mr. Akins found out he was fired in August 1975 when a friend called to read him a newspaper article reporting the fact. ''I presume that I have stepped on a few toes,'' he said in an interview with The New York Times.
James Elmer Akins was born on Oct. 15, 1926, in Akron, Ohio. He attended the University of Akron, leaving to serve in the Navy for two years in World War II, and graduated in 1947. He joined the Foreign Service in 1954 and worked in Italy, France, Syria, Lebanon, Kuwait and Baghdad before being appointed to the State Department's top energy post in 1968.
''He was a formidable advocate, a tall erect Quaker with uncompromising principles,'' Anthony Sampson wrote in ''The Seven Sisters'' (1975), ''but he was regarded by many diplomats as being too committed an Arabophile.''
In 1971, Mr. Akins took the side of Libya when it demanded an increase of 40 cents a barrel after companies producing there offered only a nickel. The 40-cent price rise occurred, and is seen as an important step in OPEC's mounting militancy.
Mr. Akins is survived by his wife of 56 years, the former Marjorie Abbott; his son, Thomas; his daughter, Mary Elizabeth Akins Colvill; three grandchildren; and his brothers, Kenneth and Donavan.
For all his pro-Arab feeling, Mr. Akins publicly criticized the corruption he saw in Saudi Arabia. He not only instructed the Saudis not to give gifts to visiting American officials but also threatened to personally confiscate any presents the officials accepted.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, at a meeting in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, in March 1975: Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, King Faisal and James E. Akins, the United States ambassador to Saudi Arabia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX NASH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); GAS STATIONS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (77%); GASOLINE (77%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); CONSUMPTION (69%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (73%) UNITED STATES (98%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (79%); SYRIA (79%); ALGERIA (79%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



619 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; SHARING SPACES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: The Science Of Roommates

BYLINE: By ABIGAIL SULLIVAN MOORE

 BODY:
FIRST-YEAR roommates matter. Though they may go their separate ways sophomore year, their reach can ripple throughout the college years and after.
''No one forgets their college roommate,'' says Allison Ryan, an associate professor in educational psychology at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, who studies social and academic development during adolescence. Busy building their own identities, first-year students are especially impressionable to a roommate's sway.
A growing body of research is identifying how much these roommates may influence each other, in ways temporary and longstanding, negative and positive. A lack of previous bonds at school make first-year students perfect subjects for social scientists and economists.
PUTTING ON THE 'FRESHMAN 0.5' 
Students fret about the myth known as the Freshman 15. The reality involves far less added poundage.
A new study of Marquette University freshmen who had been randomly assigned to rooms found that women with heavier roommates actually gained less weight on average than those with thinner roommates -- a half-pound versus two and a half pounds.
The reason? Four of five overweight roommates were dieting and exercising, and those habits often rubbed off on a roommate, regardless of her size, says Olga Yakusheva, an assistant professor in economics at Marquette and a co-author of the study. Even thin women were weight watching, Dr. Yakusheva says, pointing to cultural pressures.
Margo D. Maine, a psychologist and specialist in eating disorders, warns that young women age 17 to 19 are at risk of developing some form of eating disorder, and some may be particularly susceptible to a calorie-counting roommate. Why one student wields more influence over another isn't always clear. But when students first arrive on campus, some may lose confidence, Dr. Maine suggests, and follow the lead of a more self-assured roommate.
MOOD SWINGS
Feelings are contagious. ''Each happy friend a person has increases that person's probability of being happy by 9 percent and each unhappy friend decreases it by 7 percent,'' says Nicholas A. Christakis, a co-author of ''Connected: The Surprising Power of Our Social Networks and How They Shape Our Lives.''
Males with depressed roommates may end up feeling a bit blue themselves, according to Daniel Eisenberg, an assistant professor of public health at the University of Michigan who recently led a survey of 1,600 freshmen at two universities -- a public one in the Midwest and a private one in the Northeast -- on the issue. He found no such carryover for female students.
This mood contagion seems to occur when the student keeps his feelings bottled up, Dr. Eisenberg says. And it's only a mild case; roommates typically don't develop their friends' more serious conditions.
''It's not like you catch a mental-health cold,'' he says. ''People are resilient. They have a lot of coping strategies.''
THE X-BOX EFFECT
Todd R. Stinebrickner, an economics professor at the University of Western Ontario, has proved what many a parent already suspects: video games contribute to lower grades.
''If your roommate brought a video game, you study a lot less and you do a lot worse in your classes,'' says Dr. Stinebrickner, who surveyed the study habits of randomly matched roommates at Berea College in Kentucky.
Students whose roommates brought video games tended to study a half-hour less a day than students with non-gamer roommates. Their grades showed it, too, with grade-point averages that were 0.2 lower on average than students without X-Box roommates.
ONE TOO MANY
''Peer pressure is intense in that first year of college, probably more intense than in any other year of life,'' says Jeffrey Jensen Arnett, a research psychologist at Clark University and author of ''Emerging Adulthood: The Winding Road From Late Teens Through the 20s.'' ''Everyone around you is a stranger and you want to fit in,'' he says. ''One way to find that place is to go along with what other people seem to be doing and what they seem to want you to do.''
Drinking is a case in point. The beer-soaked epic ''Superbad'' is not off the mark: many high school students drink to excess. Dr. Eisenberg's survey of first-year students in August found that 34 percent reported bingeing in the month before arriving on campus, with bingeing defined as at least five drinks in a row for men, four for women. By the spring, however, 54 percent said they had recently binged.
Where did these new guzzlers come from? Dr. Eisenberg found a correlation between the likelihood students would binge drink and their roommates' behavior.
The non-binge drinker was more likely to binge when paired with a drinker. As students said in the survey, their drinking roommates made for good buddies. ''You are more likely to consider that person to be a close friend and to spend more time with that person,'' Dr. Eisenberg says.
And what's the effect of all this beer pong?
Nondrinkers paired with drinkers get poorer grades, by a quarter-point in G.P.A., according to a study of a large public university by Harvard researchers. Two roommates with drinking histories do even worse, with grades that are two-thirds of a point lower. The effect was seen across the board regardless of students' academic resumes, and predominantly in male roommates.
As the roommates moved to sophomore year, the lower grades persisted even though many were living with someone else. Dan Levy, co-author of the study, posits that alcohol's addictive quality is at play here: ''Maybe your roommate is no longer there, but because you've got into the habit of drinking, that influence lives longer.''
ROOMMATES AND RACE
Research at Ohio State University has found that black students with high SAT and ACT scores earn better G.P.A.'s when assigned to white roommates -- perhaps, the study speculates, because a white roommate smoothes the adjustment both socially and academically at the largely white university. (For the white students, there was no G.P.A. bump.)
But interracial pairings do tend to be more problematic, with more room changes than among same-race roommates, according to studies at Ohio State and Indiana University Bloomington. Yet when a housing crisis at Ohio State forced unhappy roommates to stay together, white students adopted more favorable attitudes in just 10 weeks about African-Americans as a group, says Russell H. Fazio, an Ohio State psychologist who studied interracial roommates there and at Indiana.
Multiple studies have shown that rooming with someone of another race reduces prejudice, and leads students to diversify their friendships. A longitudinal study of more than 1,000 freshmen at an academically strong state university concluded that white students assigned to room with black students were more positive about diversity policies like affirmative action.
According to the study, ''Empathy or Antipathy? The Impact of Diversity,'' the white roommates in later years also reported more easy interactions with members of minority groups.
Courtney Jones is a case study in empathy. Ms. Jones, who is white, expected her first-year roommate at North Carolina State University to be white. But she was matched with Melanie Paige, who is African-American.
''I was like, 'Oh, wow! What is this going to be like?' ''
Ms. Jones says she had had no black friends in her high-school inner circle. In the end, she says, rooming with Ms. Paige was transformational.
That year, commiserating in their small room about missing home, an inconsiderate friend or impending tests, more similarities emerged than differences. ''You realize that even though you are different races, a lot of things you go through, a lot of the struggles are the same,'' says Ms. Jones, now a junior. ''She helped me develop a sense of respect for different people and where they come from. Now I have friends from every background and every race and before I didn't.''
Ms. Paige says she was changed, too.
She had close white friends before college. But sharing the intimacies of daily life with a white person, she says, ''I feel like I kind of have more knowledge about white people, how they do things, and how they think.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HAPPY TOGETHER: Courtney Jones, left, and Melanie Paige found being roommates at North Carolina State eye opening. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON ARTHURS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Estimated probability students will be binge drinkers near the end of freshman year, depending on whether they or their roommates binged in high school. (Source: Daniel Eisenberg, University of Michigan) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT HOUSING (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); DIETING (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); MENTAL HEALTH (77%); WOMEN (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); EATING DISORDERS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: MARQUETTE UNIVERSITY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (74%); MIDWEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



620 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: China Penalty For Journalist Is Criticized

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Human rights groups are strongly criticizing the Chinese government for imposing a harsh prison sentence Friday on an ethnic Uighur journalist and intellectual who gave an interview to a Hong Kong news publication last August, just weeks after deadly ethnic rioting shook the western region of Xinjiang. 
The intellectual, Gheyret Niyaz, was sentenced to 15 years in prison for endangering state security, a vague charge that is often used by officials to lock up people they deem political threats. The sentence was especially severe given that Mr. Niyaz was not accused of taking part in the ethnic rioting. Other Chinese intellectuals have recently been slapped with similarly severe sentences: Last December, Liu Xiaobo, a main author of a pro-democracy manifesto called Charter 08, was sentenced to 11 years.
Mr. Niyaz, 51, holds what are considered moderate political views -- he has not, for example, advocated for Xinjiang independence, a position held by some Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking people that is the largest ethnic group in Xinjiang. Many of them resent the policies of the Chinese government, which is dominated by ethnic Han, saying that those policies are diluting the Uighur culture and leading to their economic disenfranchisement.
A graduate of Minzu University of China in Beijing, Mr. Niyaz advocates instead for greater exchange between Uighurs and Han. He helped edit a Web site called Uighur Online, started by Ilham Tohti, a prominent Uighur economist who was detained for more than two months last summer.
On July 5, 2009, the deadliest ethnic rioting in China in decades broke out in Xinjiang's capital, Urumqi, after Han security forces tried to suppress a Uighur protest. Uighurs turned on Han civilians and burned stores and residences. At least 197 people were killed and 1,600 injured, most of them Han civilians, the Chinese government said. Uighur advocacy groups say security forces beat, shot and detained an unknown number of Uighurs.
On Aug. 2, 2009, Mr. Niyaz gave an interview to Yazhou Zhoukan, or Asia Weekly, a Hong Kong news publication, that provided the grist for the charge against him.
Mr. Niyaz said that he had warned officials in Xinjiang the day before the July 5 rioting of signs that violence could soon erupt in Urumqi, but that his warnings were ignored. Immediately after the rioting, some of Mr. Niyaz's warnings were discussed on the Internet and circulated through Twitter.
''Niyaz's draconian prison sentence raises serious concern about the authorities' respect for freedom of expression, and capacity and commitment to protect fundamental rights and freedoms,'' the executive director of Human Rights in China, Sharon Hom, said in a written statement.
The Uyghur American Association, based in Washington, said the 15-year sentence ''represents the Chinese government's policy of no tolerance for any type of Uyghur dissent, as well as the government's campaign to tightly control the flow of information and stem public criticism of official policy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (91%); INTERVIEWS (90%); PRISONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); RIOTS (89%); WRITERS (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); ETHNICITY (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (73%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTHWEST CHINA (96%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); XINJIANG, CHINA (92%) CHINA (97%); HONG KONG (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



621 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: The War: A Trillion Can Be Cheap

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Like everything else, war is a lot more expensive than it used to be.
The conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan have cost Americans a staggering $1 trillion to date, second only in inflation-adjusted dollars to the $4 trillion price tag for World War II, when the United States put 16 million men and women into uniform and fought on three continents.
Sticker shock is the inevitable first reaction to the latest statistics on the costs of all major United States wars since the American Revolution, compiled by the Congressional Research Service and released late last month, and the figures promise to play into intensifying political and economic pressures to restrain the Pentagon budget. 
Still, 21st-century technology is an obvious explanation for why two relatively small (although long) wars in developing societies like Iraq and Afghanistan are so expensive. As Stephen Daggett, a specialist in defense policy and budgets, writes in the Congressional Research Service report, in the Revolutionary War ''the most sophisticated weaponry was a 36-gun frigate that is hardly comparable to a modern $3.5 billion destroyer.''
A second look at the numbers shows another story underneath. In 2008, the peak year so far of war spending for Iraq and Afghanistan, the costs amounted to only 1.2 percent of America's gross domestic product. During the peak year of spending on World War II, 1945, the costs came to nearly 36 percent of G.D.P.
The reason is the immense growth, and seemingly limitless credit, of the United States economy over the last 65 years, as compared to the sacrifice and unity required to wring $4 trillion from a much smaller economy to wage the earlier war. To some historians, the difference is troubling.
''The army is at war, but the country is not,'' said David M. Kennedy, the Stanford University historian. ''We have managed to create and field an armed force that can engage in very, very lethal warfare without the society in whose name it fights breaking a sweat.'' The result, he said, is ''a moral hazard for the political leadership to resort to force in the knowledge that civil society will not be deeply disturbed.''
A corollary is that taxes have not been raised to pay for Iraq and Afghanistan -- the first time that has happened in an American war since the Revolution, when there was not yet a country to impose them. Rightly or wrongly, that has further cut American civilians off from the two wars on the opposite side of the world.
Before the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, ''Americans were called upon by their leaders to pay higher taxes during a war, and grumbling or not grumbling, they did it,'' said Robert D. Hormats, the under secretary of state for economic, energy and agricultural affairs and the author of ''The Price of Liberty: Paying for America's Wars.''
In terms of costs per warrior, the current wars appear to be the most expensive ever, according to Todd Harrison, a senior fellow for defense budget studies at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments. Working independently of the Pentagon and of the Congressional study, and using computations based on the number of troops committed to the actual conduct of war at any one time, he estimates that the annual cost today is $1.1 million per man or woman in uniform in Afghanistan versus an adjusted $67,000 per year for troops in World War II and $132,000 in Vietnam.
Although technology is the driving factor, along with the logistical expense of moving equipment over the treacherous and landlocked Afghan terrain, costs per soldier have also risen because of the price of maintaining a better-trained and higher-paid force. ''We're not just pulling random guys off the street and sending them off to war like we did in the past,'' Mr. Harrison said.
A last story in the numbers: A quick calculation shows that the United States has been at war for 47 of its 230 years, or 20 percent of its history. Put another way, Americans have been at war one year out of every five.
''You know, it's a surprise to me that it's that high,'' said Mr. Daggett, who has focused on the cost, not length, of wars. ''You think of war as not being the usual state.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The high-tech nature of modern warfare has made the wars in Afghanistan, above, and Iraq among the costliest in American history. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: The Current Conflicts Are the Second-Most Expensive...: The combined costs of Iraq, Afghanistan and other post-9/11 operations are exceeded only by those of World War II.
But They Have Involved Far Fewer People...: Each figure represents 500,000 people who served during the course of each conflict (includes those fighting in theaters of war and those serving in support areas).
At a Smaller Cost to the Economy.: War costs as a percentage of United States gross domestic product in the peak year of each conflict. Estimate not available for Revolutionary War-era G.D.P. (Sources: Congressional Research Service (costs)
 Department of Defense) (CHARTS BY BILL MARSH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HISTORY (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); STATISTICS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (61%); TERRORISM (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



622 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Level Playing Fields, In Soccer and Finance

BYLINE: By RICHARD H. THALER. 
Richard H. Thaler is a professor of economics and behavioral science at the Booth School of Business at the University of Chicago.

 BODY:
OVER the last month, one question seemed to be on everyone's mind at the economic conferences I attended in Europe: How did referees miss a goal that England scored against Germany in their World Cup match? The goal in question struck the crossbar, bounced down and landed a full yard inside the goal, then flew out onto the field, all in the blink of an eye.
Soccer reform wasn't the stated focus of these conferences. But thinking about how to improve the sport's regulations comes naturally to economists, especially after a few beers, because some of the same principles should be applied to economic regulation. 
The first is that the regulator -- in this case, the referee -- is fallible. So the rules should make the regulator's job as easy as possible.
Second, regulators can't detect every irregularity, so the emphasis has to be on getting the big stuff right. Finally, we want performance, not regulators, to determine the outcome. The best regulators are those we don't notice.
In soccer, one head referee has to cover a ''pitch'' larger than an American football field. He has three assistants who must stand on the sideline. There is plenty of evidence beyond that missed English goal that referees are indeed human. For example, referees call more fouls against the visiting team, and against bigger players. So, what can be done?
Here are a few suggestions, and some general lessons for regulation in other domains. The first two changes are easy.
ADD REFEREES Put at least one more ref on the field. (Basketball has three referees on a much smaller court.) The idea is under consideration by FIFA, the soccer organizing body.
This is a no-brainer for the World Cup, which generates billions of dollars in revenue, but in the world of financial regulation, adding referees is costly. Governments will need to cut budgets, not expand them, so we need to make regulators more efficient, not more numerous.
ADD TECHNOLOGY Although instant replay showed that England's goal should have counted, FIFA officials have resisted using technology that could help. Many technological solutions, including embedding an electronic chip in the ball, would make the determination of goal scoring faster and more accurate.
Technology can help in other regulatory areas as well, and is a good way to increase efficiency. For example, requiring banks to file their compliance data electronically drastically reduces the time it takes to conduct an audit.
INCREASE SCORING In the most recent tournament, the teams together scored 2.27 goals per match, the second-lowest number in history. In early years of the World Cup, scoring was twice as high, and the problem with low-scoring games is not just that they bore uncultured Americans like me. Low scores magnify the importance of referees' decisions. When a team is awarded a penalty kick, it scores about 75 percent of the time, and that's very likely to affect the outcome of a low-scoring game.
In finance, a useful analogy is to increase the capital requirements for banks. By requiring banks to have a bigger security blanket, regulators themselves have greater margin for error.
REDEFINE 'OFFSIDE' The offside rule is now too hard to enforce. When a player passes the ball downfield, no one on his team can have any part of his body farther downfield than any defender, aside from the goalkeeper. The linesman calling these violations runs along the sideline, keeping parallel with the offensive player closest to being offside -- all while watching the ball.
This requires wide-angle vision that humans don't possess. (A bird called the woodcock, with 360-degree vision, would be good at it.) Short of eliminating the rule, we might limit offside calls to players whose entire body is ahead of the defenders. That should be easier to detect, and might lead to more goals scored.
The general point is to make the judgment tasks of regulators easier. The Securities and Exchange Commission had trouble assessing the technical arguments that strongly suggested that Bernie Madoff was a crook, but they could have easily had a rule requiring him to document his assets under management.
RETHINK PENALTIES Another idea is to adjust the silly yellow/red card penalty system. There are three levels of fouls in soccer, depending partly on whether the action is ''careless,'' ''reckless'' or ''using excessive force.'' It is asking too much to think a referee can distinguish between careless and reckless on the fly.
A system similar to basketball's, in which accumulated fouls lead to expulsion, and ''flagrant'' fouls are heavily punished, would be easier to put into practice, especially if an off-field official kept track of the running totals.
The general principle here is that we don't want small differences in behavior, which are difficult for a regulator to distinguish, to lead to large differences in punishment.
REDUCE FAKING Finally, there is the problem of diving. After falling, players routinely writhe on the ground until the referee either believes they've been injured, ignores them or, rarely, imposes penalties for ''simulation.'' These instant injury judgments are very difficult for a single on-field referee.
Such decisions might be turned over to referees watching video monitors -- and empowered to impose stiff penalties for faking. Diving is the soccer version of the inevitable attempts to influence financial regulators. We can't expect to eliminate special pleading by financiers for taxpayer bailouts, of course, but perhaps we can reduce the impact of such efforts by opening them to public view through increased disclosure about the process and its beneficiaries.
Thinking about revising the rules of soccer is a nice summertime relief from worrying about more serious regulatory overhaul, but it also illustrates the key principles that apply to both.
New rules in either soccer or finance shouldn't put any more burden on individual referees. As Larry Summers, the director of the National Economic Council, said recently, in revising financial regulations, we do not want to require anyone to get any smarter.
Consider the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau now being established. Above all, I'd urge the head of this agency to devise rules under the assumption that, someday, he or she will be succeeded by a nitwit.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (89%); BUDGETS (78%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); BASKETBALL (73%); BUDGET CUTS (61%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLAND (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



623 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: When the Price Is Right

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS. 
E-mail: bigdeal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
When the Price Is Right
CERTAIN specters lurking in the New York City real estate market can make even the toughest buyers and sellers squirm. There are co-op boards. There are bedbugs. And there is that little tracker on listing Web sites that counts how long an apartment has lingered on the market. 
During the recession, the time it took to sell a home shot up as buyers' and sellers' understanding of a ''reasonable'' price drifted into very different worlds. But according to Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel and a partner at Condominium Recovery, which invests in real estate, the time that it takes to sell a place has come down considerably -- so long as it is priced correctly.
In the second quarter of this year, Mr. Miller said, Manhattan apartments went into contract after an average of 105 days on the market, measured from their final listing price. That's nearly half the selling time it took in the fourth quarter of 2009, when the average length of time on the market peaked at 204 days.
In Brooklyn the drop has also been considerable. Last quarter, apartments spent an average of 103 days on the market. The peak selling time was reached in the third quarter of 2009, when apartments sat on the market for an average of 165 days.
In the first quarter of this year, both boroughs showed considerable drops in selling time compared with the fourth quarter of 2009 -- to 123 days from 204 in Manhattan, and to 114 from 163 in Brooklyn.
''That drop is the point at which buyers are looking for product that's priced reasonably,'' Mr. Miller said. ''They're done testing the water.''
''If something is priced reasonably close to market,'' he added, ''it sells.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); BED BUGS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



624 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2155 words

HEADLINE: Will Zynga Become the Google of Games?

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO
ORIENTATION for new employees of Zynga, the fast-growing maker of Facebook games like FarmVille and Mafia Wars, can be a heady affair given the company's outsize ambitions -- all of which are embodied in Mark Pincus, Zynga's 44-year-old founder.
In a pep talk this month, Mr. Pincus told his company's newcomers that he had set out to build an enduring Internet icon, one that was synonymous with fun.
''I thought, it's 2007, and this can't be all that the Internet is meant to be,'' he said. There has to be more than ''a garage sale, a bookstore, a search engine and a portal,'' he added in a good-natured putdown of the Web giants eBay, Amazon, Google and Yahoo. 
And lest there be any doubt which of those giants Zynga aims to match, Mr. Pincus said the opportunity to build an online entertainment empire was ''like search before Google came along.''
So far, he seems on track. The Zynga Game Network, as the company is officially called, is the hottest start-up to emerge from Silicon Valley since Twitter and, before that, Facebook. Unlike Twitter, which has meager revenue, Zynga is on a path to pocket as much as $500 million in revenue this year, according to the Inside Network, which tracks Facebook apps.
While Facebook needed four and a half years to reach 100 million users, Zynga crossed that mark after just two and a half years.
Zynga's empire is made up of cartoonish online games that even Mr. Pincus acknowledges are goofy. And most striking, given its financial success, is the fact that the games are free to everyone. Zynga makes money, by and large, only when a small fraction of its users pay real money for make-believe ''virtual'' goods that let them move up in the games or to give their friends gifts.
For instance, in FarmVille, its most popular game, players tend to virtual farms, planting and harvesting crops, and turning little plots of land into ever more sophisticated or idyllic cyberfarms. Good farmers -- those who don't let crops wither -- earn virtual currency they can use for things like more seed or farm animals and equipment.
But players can also buy those goods with credit cards, PayPal accounts or Facebook's new payment system, called Credits. A pink tractor, a FarmVille favorite, costs about $3.50, and fuel to power it is 60 cents. A Breton horse can be had for $4.40, and four chickens for $5.60. The sums are small, but add up quickly when multiplied by millions of users: Zynga says it has been profitable since shortly after its founding.
The company has ballooned to nearly 1,000 employees, up from 375 a year ago, and now has some 400 job openings. And investors, including Google and the Netscape founder Marc Andreessen, have put about $520 million into the company. Though some of the money was used to buy out early investors and employees, it's still a huge sum in Silicon Valley.
Zynga has been valued at more than $4.5 billion, putting Mr. Pincus, who has retained voting control over the company, on a path to become Silicon Valley's next billionaire. And, not surprisingly, Zynga has caught the attention of people beyond Silicon Valley.
At a recent gathering of media and technology moguls, Jeffrey Katzenberg, the C.E.O. of DreamWorks Animation, was asked what he would do if he were to start his career over. ''I said I would like to be Mark Pincus,'' he recalled in an interview. ''He has nailed the next killer app, the next compelling thing that's going to happen'' in media.
THERE have been some bumps on Zynga's road to success. The games are programmed to send updates to players' Facebook friends when certain actions are completed, like planting or harvesting crops. Six million Facebook users, who grew tired of constant updates about their friends' games, joined a group called ''I don't care about your farm, or your fish, or your park, or your mafia!!!''
Facebook started restricting the messages, and Zynga's traffic dropped sharply. For instance, FarmVille had a 26 percent drop, to 61 million monthly users, in July from a peak of about 83 million in March, according to AppData.com.
Mr. Pincus says he expects growth to resume with new games like FrontierVille, which a month after its release on June 9 had 20 million players. And Zynga investors say the drop in traffic had little effect on revenue because many players who dropped out didn't buy virtual goods.
Even so, some analysts and investors question Zynga's ability to keep producing hit games in an ever more crowded field. ''There are only so many potential customers and only so many categories,'' says Rick Heitzmann, a managing director of FirstMark Capital, a venture capital firm that has invested in online game companies, though not in Zynga. ''And they are burning through categories quickly,'' he adds, noting that Zynga already had games for pets, farms, restaurants and other subjects.
For now, however, it is hard to argue with Zynga's record.
Its games have 211 million players every month, according to AppData.com. Though that figure counts a user for each type of game he plays, it makes Zynga about four times larger than its nearest rival, Electronic Arts. Playdom is third, with 41 million users.
''I have a very high-stress life,'' says Alena Meeker, 32, a financial analyst at a major brokerage firm in San Francisco. ''I love relaxing with the games.'' Ms. Meeker, who plays several of Zynga's games, says she devotes about an hour a day to them and spends $20 to $40 on virtual goods every week. She says she uses the games to connect with friends, co-workers and family.
Nathan R. Van Sleet, who lives in Oakland and is unemployed, says he plays YoVille, a game in which users create avatars and interact with others in custom-decorated homes, for up to 16 hours a day. Because he is hearing-impaired and doesn't know sign language, online forums of YoVille players have allowed him to connect with various people.
''If it were not for the forums, I would have missed the opportunity to meet these people,'' Mr. Van Sleet said in an e-mail.
Mr. Pincus points to these kinds of testimonials when he says that the games, while simple, have a higher purpose: connecting people. The company also donates some proceeds from virtual goods to earthquake relief in Haiti and other causes.
While some traditional developers grumble about the social-game phenomenon, which they see as a step backward in sophistication, the popularity of Zynga and some of its rivals has made the multibillion-dollar video game industry take notice. In November, Electronic Arts bought the Zynga rival Playfish for as much as $400 million. But some analysts say that most other traditional gaming companies are falling behind the trend that is taking the industry by storm.
''The only one that can catch up is Electronic Arts,'' says Michael Pachter, a research analyst at Wedbush Securities.
BY the standards of Silicon Valley, where people like Mr. Andreessen, Mark Zuckerberg, Larry Page and Sergey Brin built Internet empires while still in their 20s, Mr. Pincus is something of an aging whiz kid.
Clad in jeans and a T-shirt, Mr. Pincus could easily blend in with Zynga's new recruits, a group of hoodie-wearing, 20-something engineers and product managers.
A serial entrepreneur, he sold his first company, Freeloader, an early Internet broadcast service, for $38 million, and took public his second, a business software maker called Support.com. He owns several homes and an airplane. Yet five years ago, around the time his third company, a social network called Tribe.net, was headed for failure, he groused in an interview that he had not yet made Silicon Valley's ''A-list.''
With Zynga, Mr. Pincus believes he will finally get his due. He talks of building a ''digital skyscraper,'' a company whose services are so indispensable that someday we will look back and wonder how we managed to do without it.
As he has carved his path in Silicon Valley, he has earned a reputation as a visionary leader. Yet he is also known for his sharp elbows and irreverent style, an image he does little to dispel. He often brags about being fired from a consulting firm job for having little patience with his bosses. ''I didn't believe in paying dues,'' he said in a public talk.
He's open about his distrust of many venture capitalists, and doesn't want to be at their mercy. ''We were profitable before we raised any money,'' he says. ''I think that gives you a better chance to sit at the table with your investors as a peer, not an employee.''
He says he once barred the partners at one firm that had invested in Support.com from attending meetings ''because they were not adding any value.'' With a touch of pride, he adds that a Silicon Valley firm turned down an investment in Zynga, telling him he was ''not coachable.''
Now that Zynga has shone a spotlight on Mr. Pincus as never before, his bravado has come back to haunt him. While speaking to entrepreneurs in Berkeley last year, he said: '' I knew that I wanted to control my destiny. So I funded the company myself, but I did every horrible thing in the book to just get revenues right away.''
Bloggers seized on those comments as an example of questionable ethics at Zynga after critics said the company was allowing deceptive advertisers into its games. Without being clear, some ads, for instance, signed up players for subscriptions to costly text-messaging services. TechCrunch, the technology blog, called the practice ''ScamVille,'' and some users filed a class-action lawsuit against Zynga. The company has since filed a motion to dismiss the suit, and a hearing is expected in September.
Zynga has since pulled the ads, and Mr. Pincus now says he was misunderstood. He says he was trying to convey to would-be entrepreneurs that they needed to earn revenue quickly to gain independence from investors. ''I never meant to imply you should do anything unethical,'' he says.
And he says he recognized that with Zynga's success, he needed to temper his attitude. ''As the company has had more exposure and visibility, I have had to realize that more people take what I say seriously,'' he says. ''I've had to grow up.''
AS Zynga has emerged as the most successful maker of Facebook applications, its relationship with the giant social network has become more complicated. First, there was the brouhaha over the notification system and the drop in traffic. Then Facebook said it would push all applications to use a virtual currency, Credits, on the site, and take 30 percent of proceeds. Tensions mounted, but the two companies eventually settled their differences. In May, they announced a five-year partnership expanding the use of Credits in Zynga games.
Ethan Beard, who heads Facebook's platform team, acknowledged the strains. But he said that the relationship between the two companies now was ''very, very strong.''
Still, some analysts predict more friction ahead, as the balance of power between the two companies shifts.
''Most people think Facebook would have been a phenomenon without games,'' says Mr. Pachter, the Wedbush Securities analyst. ''I am not sure that's right. Twenty to 30 percent of visits to Facebook are to play games.''
Zynga, which is said to be contemplating a public offering, clearly does not want to have all its eggs in the Facebook basket. It recently signed a sweeping agreement to bring its games to millions of users on Yahoo. And Mr. Pincus shared the stage with Steven P. Jobs, the Apple C.E.O., at the unveiling of the iPhone 4 to announce that FarmVille was available on the handset.
In addition, Zynga's $520 million in financing includes a recent infusion of $300 million through two, roughly equal investments from Softbank and Google, according to people briefed on the investments who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss Zynga's finances publicly. Google and Zynga are also in the early stages of exploring a collaboration, these people said. Zynga and Google declined to comment or confirm a Google investment.
When Mr. Pincus first envisioned Zynga, most investors and peers doubted that a gaming start-up could become the next big thing. But the success of games like FarmVille has silenced the critics.
''Zynga has the most revenue, growth and happy customers of any three-year-old venture we've ever backed,'' says John Doerr, a partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the venture capital firm that has backed Amazon, Google and Netscape.
Asked how big Zynga can become, Mr. Pincus has a difficult time hiding his ambition.
''I am drinking the Kool-Aid more than anyone,'' he says.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mark Pincus, C.E.O. of Zynga, maker of FarmVille and other games, aims to build an online entertainment empire as important as Google is to search. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU1)
 Zynga's FrontierVille game, which was released only on June 9, already has 20 million players. The company makes money, by and large, only when users pay real money for virtual goods. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZYNGA) (BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (92%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (76%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); BOOKSTORES (69%); FARM LABOR (69%); SEARCH ENGINES (69%); ANIMALS (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (94%); ZYNGA INC (92%); FACEBOOK INC (90%); PAYPAL INC (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (94%); ZNGA (NASDAQ) (92%); FB (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



625 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Young Viewers Depart, and Fewer Young Drivers Enter

BYLINE: By VIV BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
When the green flag waved to start the Daytona 500 in February, marking the beginning of the Nascar Sprint Cup season, not a single rookie driver was in the 43-car field. The last time that happened?
Never.
The Nascar rookie class of 2010 is virtually nonexistent, except for the unheralded, unrookie-like Kevin Conway, 31. Heading into Sunday's race in Indianapolis, he is 35th in points driving for a small team that struggles to keep up with the multicar juggernauts of the sport.
Conway has no competition for the rookie of the year title. That is in part because Penske Racing's Brad Keselowski, the most prominent first-year driver, is ineligible for rookie honors because he raced a partial schedule in 2009. But it is also part of a trend, with fewer competitive young drivers making an impact in recent years. The last time a high-profile team failed to produce a rookie of the year candidate was before the rise of megateams in the mid- to late 1990s.
It is perhaps a troubling precedent for Nascar, because it coincides with a decline in ratings in the all-important young male demographic. David Hill, the Fox Sports chairman and chief executive, recently said ratings among men 18 to 34 were down 29 percent from last year on Fox. 
''The biggest problem facing Nascar is that the young males have left the sport,'' Hill told The SportsBusiness Journal in May after Fox's 13-race schedule had been completed.
The timing of that exodus may not be a coincidence.
''Cultivating the next generation of fans is something that every league has to be worried about all the time, and to do that is to obviously have younger drivers that young fans can relate to,'' said David Carter, the executive director of the Sports Business Institute at the University of Southern California. ''In a sport that's dominated by so many standard bearers, maybe it's difficult to get young fans excited about anybody, especially some of these drivers that are twice their age.''
There are only three drivers under 30 in the Cup series top 20 in points and one of those, Denny Hamlin, will be 30 in November. That will make Kyle Busch, 25, and Joey Logano, 20, the lone top 20-somethings.
It did not used to be that way. A steady flow of young drivers helped fuel the sport's growth in popularity in the 1990s and 2000s. Jeff Gordon was 21 when he began racing at the Cup level under Hendrick Motorsports in 1993, and won his first championship two years later. Gordon changed the development model by proving that a young driver could win races and titles right away.
Beginning in 1999 with Tony Stewart, Nascar had an annual infusion of new talent that quickly challenged for victories and titles. Matt Kenseth and Dale Earnhardt Jr. arrived in 2000, followed by Kevin Harvick and Kurt Busch in 2001, Jimmie Johnson and Ryan Newman in 2002, Greg Biffle in 2003, Kasey Kahne in 2004, Kyle Busch and Carl Edwards in 2005 and Denny Hamlin and Clint Bowyer in 2006.
Since then, Nascar rookies have not made as significant an impact. Juan Pablo Montoya, the 2007 rookie of the year at 32 after coming over from Formula One, and Logano, a highly acclaimed teenager who was rookie of the year last year, each won a race in their rookie seasons.
''We're full of young drivers, very talented young drivers,'' said Brett Bodine, Nascar's director of cost research, who monitors the development of drivers through the various racing series. He sees plenty of talent at the lower levels.
But that talent is having a harder time moving up, in part because the earlier influx of young drivers has created a logjam of drivers in their 30s at the Cup level. And they're not going anywhere. There's another roadblock as well.
The premier drivers regularly compete in the lower-level Nationwide Series, which is supposed to be a feeder circuit. That makes it harder to find sponsorship for young unproven drivers like 19-year-old Trevor Bayne, who has 30 starts in the Nationwide series since last season, and 18-year-old Ryan Truex, who made his Nationwide debut on July 17.
''It feels like so many sponsors want just Cup drivers because it's more about the marketing than it is about the developing,'' said Ty Norris, vice president and general manager at Michael Waltrip Racing, which is developing Bayne and Truex. ''So many quality cars are taken up by Cup drivers simply because the sponsors, given the amount of money it takes to run a Nationwide Series now, they want Cup celebrities in their racecars.''
The weak economy is limiting opportunities, too. Aric Almirola, 26, once a prospect at Joe Gibbs Racing, was supposed to have a full-time ride in the Cup series with Earnhardt Ganassi Racing in 2009. But a lack of sponsorship cost him, and he is now racing two levels down in the Camping World Truck Series.
It could be a long wait.
''The owners in the various series can't afford to invest millions of dollars in the development of these younger drivers in the absence of a general economic recovery,'' said Geoff Smith, the president of Roush Fenway Racing and one of several teams with driver development programs.
The soaring cost of competition led Nascar to bar testing among Cup teams in recent years. That might have saved teams some money but cost them in driver development. Without an opportunity to test extensively at tracks on the Cup schedule, younger drivers no longer have the chance to gain experience.
''There are drivers that have a shot at getting to the Cup level if they were able to test and do those things, and at this point, they're not,'' Keselowski said.
Smith said he thought young drivers would have a negotiating edge down the road as teams seek to shed more costly veterans when filling seats.
''You need young drivers to keep coming through,'' Ryan Truex said, ''or you're going to run out of 'em eventually and have a bunch of old dudes running around.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kyle Busch, left, Joey Logano, right, and Denny Hamlin are the only top-20 Nascar Sprint Cup drivers younger than 30. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG PENSINGER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (90%); NASCAR RACING (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); NETWORK TELEVISION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); MEN (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: JEFF GORDON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%) INDIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



626 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1699 words

HEADLINE: Old Shows, Stripped Down So They Shine

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
TREVOR NUNN had a money problem. The director of such lavish musicals as ''Cats'' and ''Les Miserables,'' he wanted a particular dress -- somber but frisky -- for the leading lady in his latest show here, this summer's revival of Andrew Lloyd Webber's ''Aspects of Love.'' But Mr. Nunn was now working at the Menier Chocolate Factory, a 160-seat theater known for its scaled-down productions -- including, in the case of ''Aspects,'' not a single dressmaker. So Mr. Nunn found himself asking David Babani, the Chocolate Factory's 32-year-old artistic director, for extra money for shopping. Mr. Babani agreed, and soon the perfect dress, in an elegant grape-purple, was snapped up. On sale, for $:85 ($130).
''I wasn't told how much the dress cost, and David was probably having conniptions somewhere over it,'' Mr. Nunn said later. ''I've never had to swallow hard before to ask for a dress, but budget cutoffs are well worth working at the Chocolate Factory.'' 
If Mr. Babani runs his shop down to the pence, he is certainly doing more with less at the Chocolate Factory, in a former confectionary in the Southwark section of London, a few blocks from Shakespeare's Globe Theater. Unlike anything now in New York, the Chocolate Factory is the rare commercial theater operation that pumps out critically acclaimed hit shows on shoestring budgets, including this year's Tony Award winner for best musical revival, ''La Cage Aux Folles.'' Its recent successes on Broadway has inspired Mr. Babani to envision a branch of the Chocolate Factory in New York someday.
Founded in 2004, the theater has quickly become a creative force in the West End here and increasingly on Broadway, where it has garnered 24 Tony nominations for just three of its revivals: ''Sunday in the Park With George'' (2008), ''A Little Night Music,'' which opened in 2009, and ''La Cage.'' As for London, of the 30 shows that the Chocolate Factory has produced, 10 have moved to much larger theaters, including the current hit revival of ''Sweet Charity.''
Such transfers have been essential moneymakers for the Chocolate Factory, which has an annual operating budget of about $:2 million ($3 million) and does not receive a government subsidy like two other major London producing companies, the National Theater and the Donmar Warehouse. To create those shows for such little money, the Chocolate Factory has minted a minimalist aesthetic -- simple sets, basic costumes and lighting, actors often playing two or more roles -- on budgets that are on par with major not-for-profit Off Broadway theaters. Plays cost about $:80,000 ($120,000), and musicals between $:300,000 and $:500,000 (about $450,000 to $765,000). A typical Broadway musical costs $8 million to mount. All cast members, even stars, are paid the same company wage of $:300 a week, or about $460. And the theater's permanent staff includes only Mr. Babani and two other employees, a radically smaller operation than American theater companies.
Some of these economies have not only helped keep the theater solvent, but have also become a template for producers and directors in London and New York.
Stripped-down musicals are in vogue, from actors playing instruments onstage (making a large orchestra unnecessary) in the recent Broadway revivals of ''Sweeney Todd'' and ''Company'' to the relatively spare staging of musicals like ''Hair'' and ''Next to Normal.'' For Mr. Babani the goal of the Chocolate Factory, where theatergoers sit as close as three feet from the actors, is to remove the distractions of epic-size production numbers, which can consume money and rehearsal time, so the creators and cast can focus on realizing a show's essence.
''We start by focusing on the story and making it actor-led, rather than scenery-led or orchestra-led,'' said Mr. Babani, half-swallowed by the plush worn sofa in a nook just a few yards from the stage. ''And then we survive by getting our work out of this building and into larger theaters where we can start making money.''
Some of the shows that do not go on to larger theaters have lacked a commercial patina, or positive reviews. The Chocolate Factory's previous show, ''Paradise Found,'' directed by the Tony winners Harold Prince and Susan Stroman and starring Mandy Patinkin, was a box office success but took a drubbing from critics, and it closed in June without a transfer.
Mr. Babani pointed to ''Paradise Found'' as a production that, while promising in development and invested with huge talent, did not mesh with the Menier aesthetic. A transcontinental adventure story set in 1873, it was more epic than most Chocolate Factory shows, with ornate dresses as well as automated sets -- the first ever used at the theater, he said. ''If anything, the show was overdesigned for the space, with perhaps more scenery and furniture and costumes than the building could handle,'' Mr. Babani said.
He accepted some of the blame. ''With such a small staff and a lot on my plate, we probably weren't clear enough, strict enough, or strong enough with Hal and Susan about what wasn't working with the show in our theater,'' Mr. Babani said.
Ms. Stroman (''The Producers'') said she did not believe the show was overdesigned but agreed that its scale was not pared down. Regardless, the Chocolate Factory proved ideal to try out the new musical, she said, because the confined space made it easier to see the weaknesses and strengths of the show. ''I came away understanding that the marrying of the music and the story could be even more buoyant,'' said Ms. Stroman, who plans to return to the drawing board with Mr. Prince to rework the show.
''The Chocolate Factory gave us the opportunity to discover what we have to work on without costing us millions of dollars,'' she added.
Which is precisely Mr. Babani's mission. An impish, rumpled character who attends to his clothing and hair far more casually than to his shows, Mr. Babani recalled falling in love with theater when he saw ''Sweeney Todd'' at the National Theater when he was 13. ''It blew my mind that a show about grown-ups killing people could be funny and nasty and scary and thrilling,'' said Mr. Babani, who described his family as middle class and saw most theater early on by buying discount tickets.
He began producing his own shows while in secondary school -- his production of Ariel Dorfman's drama ''Death and the Maiden'' at a local theater earned a $:1,000 profit when he was 18 -- and went on to work as a commercial producer until finding a handsome building, with exposed wood beams and cast-iron columns, sitting vacant a few blocks south of the Thames. It was built in 1870 to house a factory for Menier Chocolate, a Parisian company that was ultimately sold off during the 1960s and '70s.
Mr. Babani said he put a premium on personally recruiting actors and directors for his shows, which tilt toward musicals, though not exclusively. He drafted Mr. Nunn for ''A Little Night Music'' and asked him afterward if there was a musical of his that he would like to revisit on a smaller scale. Mr. Nunn immediately said ''Aspects of Love,'' which happened to be Mr. Babani's favorite Lloyd Webber score, and so the revival was added to the calendar with a budget of $:400,000 ($612,000).
Mr. Nunn directed the original West End production of ''Aspects'' in 1989 and the Broadway staging a year later, and he recalled that he and Mr. Lloyd Webber had conceived ''Aspects'' as a sharp departure from blockbuster spectacles like their previous show, ''The Phantom of the Opera.''
Based on a 1955 novella by David Garnett, ''Aspects'' begins with a love triangle of Europeans that grows in size and complexity over a 17-year period. Early ideas about gently balancing the love story with a small chamber orchestra and a simple design scheme soon gave way, however, to expectations of another Lloyd Webber mega-musical -- how will he follow up ''Phantom''? -- and more music was written, and more cooks entered the producing kitchen.
''I can't really recall the precise moment when the original 'Aspects' went from small scale to big scale,'' Mr. Nunn said. ''But I felt the story got swallowed up with those 17 or so musicians and the massive design.''
The simplified revival, which has an 8-musician, 12-instrument band, has allowed Mr. Nunn to spend time working with his cast on the show's emotional arc. The first two weeks of rehearsal involved almost no music work; rather, he said, the cast read the lyrics, by Don Black and Charles Hart, as if they were dialogue and spent time improvising scenes to find nuances in tone, gestures, body language and readings.
Michael Arden, an American actor (''Big River'' on Broadway) who plays Alex, the male lead in ''Aspects,'' said the feel of the Chocolate Factory forces actors ''to be completely truthful with the material rather than try to emotionally project, because there's no balcony to play to.'' He added, ''The people are the driving forces of the shows here, not a crashing chandelier, not a turntable, not characters flying in the air.''
''Aspects'' opened on July 15 to strong reviews from critics, who generally concluded that the unvarnished staging put the poignancy of the relationships in sharp relief. Some reviews suggested that the revival was good enough to move to the West End or even Broadway. Mr. Babani said he would be thrilled if ''Aspects'' had a life beyond the Chocolate Factory, but he emphasized that few if any of his shows are bejeweled with special bells and whistles that might help grab the attention of London and New York producers.
''What I think is more worthy of attention,'' he said, ''is the bravery by our directors and team in rethinking shows in a way that cuts against people's memories and expectations. 'La Cage' was a grandly produced show before here. So was 'Night Music.' So was 'Aspects.' What I like to think we give people, instead of all that grandeur, are great stories.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Katherine Kingsley and Michael Arden in a scene from the revival of ''Aspects of Love,'' directed by Trevor Nunn and performed at the 160-seat Menier Chocolate Factory in London. The show, with music by Andrew Lloyd Webber, opened on July 15. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CATHERINE ASHMORE)
Above left, Trevor Nunn, right, rehearses with Michael Arden at the Chocolate Factory. Center, David Babani in one of the theater's rehearsal rooms. Right, a scene from ''La Cage Aux Folles'' in London. Below, Tamzin Outhwaite performing in ''Sweet Charity.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ALISTAIR MUIR
 CATHERINE ASHMORE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (86%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



627 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; DATA; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: 2010 Admissions Tally

BYLINE: By ERIC PLATT

 BODY:
This month and next, colleges and universities are putting final touches on the class of 2014. While most institutions have wrapped things up for the fall, a few wait-listed students may yet get a fat envelope. 
That's because the admissions season for 2010 has shaped up to be one of the most competitive, and uncertain, in memory.
The percentage of students accepted at many of the nation's top institutions hit new lows, while waiting lists reached new heights, says Barmak Nassirian, executive director of the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers.
Mr. Nassirian points to the economic downturn as fueling uncertainty among colleges about how many accepted students would actually attend -- the so-called yield. ''The underlying method by which families have historically paid for college was basically obliterated by the triple whammy that this recession has delivered,'' he says.
As a result, colleges had to hedge their bets this year: some offered a waiting-list spot to more than three times as many students as their entering class, leaving hundreds, even thousands, of students dangling, sometimes into late summer.
''These are very challenging times for admissions directors and enrollment managers,'' said John Mahoney, director of undergraduate admissions at Boston College. ''Most use waiting lists as insurance policies to ensure that they achieve their enrollment goals.''
Boston College offered a spot on its list to 6,026 students; 2,686 of those agreed to wait, for a class of 2,250. ''Remember that even if offered admission from the waiting list, students do not automatically enroll,'' Mr. Mahoney said. ''They may have other admission and financial aid offers to consider.''
In what admissions directors call summer melt, students place a deposit to secure a spot in a college's freshman class but withdraw because of sticker shock or an offer of admission from another college's waiting list.
As summer recedes into fall, the yield may change. The accompanying chart illustrates the state of play. Colleges and universities that wish to provide an update as final numbers become available can send an e-mail message to edlife@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Public Institutions
 Private Institutions (ED8-ED10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (82%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGIATE REGISTRARS & ADMISSIONS OFFICERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



628 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: Where Oysters Grew On Trees

BYLINE: By ROWAN JACOBSEN and MICHAEL BECK. 
Rowan Jacobsen is the author of ''The Living Shore: Rediscovering a Lost World'' and the forthcoming book ''A Shadow on the Gulf.'' Michael Beck is a senior scientist with the Nature Conservancy.

 BODY:
NOT long after the first European explorers encountered the Gulf of Mexico, word filtered back to the Continent that along this warm, exotic coastline, oysters grew on trees.
This caught the European imagination. Imagine a place so abundant that the oysters grow on trees! There was even a kernel of truth to it: the trees in question were mangroves, and in Florida oysters indeed did grow on their roots in the tidal zone. More often, the oysters thrived at the margins of the seemingly limitless marshes that stretched to the horizon, perched between sea and sky.
There was also a second, more important truth underpinning this tale: the gulf really was a paradise of abundance. Where else do you have a river the size of the Mississippi draining a region as fertile as the Midwestern heartland into a well-enclosed body of water as warm as the Gulf of Mexico? This is why the gulf has continued, despite the damage we have done to it, to produce marine life at astonishing rates. With its bounteous populations of mollusks, shrimp and finfish, the gulf holds one of the best supplies of health food on the planet and has been a natural engine of prosperity. 
Key to the gulf's productivity are its marshes, the nurseries of the sea. Fed by the regular supply of sediment washed over them by the Mississippi and its distributaries, the marshes have built up over 5,000 years into the vast network of estuaries we know today. Tucked safely into its marshes, sea-grass meadows, oyster reefs and other critical habitats form the base of the marine food chain.
We think of fish as living throughout the oceans, but most of the action happens close to shore where the food is. Indeed, 97 percent of the commercial catch of fish species in the gulf depends on its estuaries and their nursery habitats for survival. To take just one example, the gulf's famous shrimp -- which account for 73 percent of the nation's total harvest and hundreds of millions of dollars in dockside revenue alone -- lay their eggs in the open gulf, but then their hatched larvae head for the estuaries, where they live in salt marshes until they are ready to return to the open water as adults. No salt marshes, no shrimp. No estuaries, no fish.
The animal most responsible for maintaining the integrity of these estuaries is the oyster, which provides much more than New Orleans's most delectable appetizer. Oysters occur in great abundance in the gulf's shallow coastal waters. By gluing themselves to each other's shells, they create reefs -- much like coral reefs -- that literally hold the coastal ecosystem together.
Oyster reefs form a living breakwater that protects the soft marsh shorelines from erosion and storm damage. They also serve as the condominiums of the sea, providing intricate habitats and hiding places for many small and juvenile creatures at the foundation of the gulf food web. Studies show that the commercial value of the gulf's oysters (more than $60 million dollars per year, about 67 percent of the nation's total) is easily surpassed by the commercial value of the fish that need these reefs.
There are few other places on earth still like this. Worldwide, 85 percent of oyster reefs have been lost. They are the single most imperiled marine habitat. The oyster reefs of the gulf are not merely the best in the nation; they are the best in the world, a global treasure. Yet some 50 percent to 90 percent of the gulf's oyster reefs have been lost, and that was before BP's oil spill.
The marshes, too, are in sharp decline. The Mississippi River levee system, completed after the Great Flood of 1927, helped control flooding by shunting much of the river's water deep into the gulf, but it also robbed the marshes of the sediments they need to replenish themselves. The thousands of miles of canals dug through the wetlands by the oil industry in its search for new reservoirs further eroded the marshes. A football field of land disappears into the gulf every half hour. The fastest-shrinking area is the Barataria-Terrebonne estuary, west of the Mississippi River Delta, which has been hit hard with oil from the Deepwater Horizon.
Paradoxically, before the oil spill, scientists had come to a consensus that the only place on earth offering a realistic opportunity for oyster reef restoration on a scale that could support a truly sustainable fishery was the Gulf of Mexico. But there had never been the political will for such a project. Now that the spill has brought such attention to the Gulf Coast, perhaps we can agree to the kind of national response that has been needed for so long.
Just cleaning up the spill will not be sufficient. Federal, state and local governments have written many plans for restoration of the gulf, beginning even before Hurricane Katrina, but none were intended to do more than slow the losses. We should get off the defensive and come up with a winning vision of coastal restoration.
The work would start in the Mississippi River Delta, where we need to re-engineer levees to divert a portion of water flow so that the valuable sediment can spill out of it. When done properly, such diversions can be carefully controlled to have little impact on shipping or flood control.
It's a tremendous undertaking, though: large-scale marsh restoration requires scores of barge and backhoe operators, as well as engineers, to create the diversions, distribute the sediment, grade the marsh banks, and maximize the inlets and channels that make a healthy, productive marsh. (What matters to estuarine creatures like shrimp is not the total area of the marsh -- shrimp can't travel inland -- but rather the amount of habitat on the marsh's edge.)
As for the oyster reefs, we need to think of them as an investment: rebuild the natural capital and harvest only the yearly interest, leaving the principal untouched. Crews will be needed to load and haul oyster shells and to manufacture artificial reef blocks that create the base of new reefs. Many of these workers, and the small-business owners who will support the effort, would be the same people whose jobs have been destroyed by the spill.
An example of such oyster reef restoration began April 5 off Mobile, Ala. A $2.9 million grant that was part of the Obama administration's stimulus package is paying for the creation of 1.5 miles of oyster reefs, which will protect 30 acres of sea-grass beds and two miles of shoreline. The project has already created 35 jobs, as workers fabricated concrete and steel frameworks to serve as the foundation of the new reefs, then carried the new material by barge and put it in place, along with many tons of oyster shells, at the project site.
How much would it cost to do this on an ecosystem-wide scale? Before Hurricane Katrina, the initial price tag for restoring the Mississippi River Delta was $17 billion, and given the damage of the storm and oil spill, it would be vastly more expensive today. But in the long run, the benefits would outweigh the tremendous outlay.
And the spill gives us some new options for financing the project. The White House and Congress are considering increasing the fees paid into the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund by all oil companies on each barrel of oil produced in or imported to the United States. As of now, money from the fund is used to cover only direct damages and cleanup costs, not past damage associated with the extraction and shipping of natural resources. Any increases in the fees should also include provisions to support a long-term coastal restoration fund.
It would be the kind of smart government intervention that creates jobs, lifts the economy and improves quality of life. The long-suffering people of the Gulf Coast deserve no less.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASON LOGAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); OCEANS (89%); FISHES (87%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (86%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (75%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (73%); ANIMALS (72%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) GULF OF MEXICO (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



629 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; JOURNEYS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: Heaven Is a Slow Houseboat to Nowhere

BYLINE: By CHRIS COLIN

 BODY:
THE gentle swaying of our 47-foot houseboat was working its magic. Reeds shushed outside our little window and the dark river purled underneath. Northern California's peaceful Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta had lulled me into a deep, far-from-the-city sleep.
Around midnight, my eyes shot open. We were moving.
My shipmate Erik and I met on the bow, pulling on clothes and fretfully assessing the situation. The boat had blown out into the center of the slough and was gaining speed. Working by starlight, we hauled up both anchors and threw them out again, but they wouldn't catch. More hauling and throwing, hauling and throwing. Harrison Ford rented this very boat months earlier, the manager at the marina had told us. Indiana Jones wouldn't have thought much of our efforts.
An anchor will fail and fail, we learned, then suddenly take hold with perfect sovereignty. By 1 a.m., we'd nailed it -- or at least felt too tired to care anymore -- and toddled back to bed. When we woke the next morning, we found the boat hadn't budged. With new cockiness we retrieved the fishing rods, but that was pressing our luck: not a nibble. Presumably we'd bonked all the fish with our anchors. 
Having survived the ''Cape Fear'' portion of our weekend excursion, our group was now free to settle into the true houseboating experience. This involves an 80 percent slower heart rate, for starters. When they're not breaking loose in freak windstorms, houseboats don't move much faster than regular houses. Indeed, it wasn't a need for speed that brought us to the Delta, nearly a thousand miles of lovely, winding waterways that comprise the largest estuary on the West Coast. What we hankered for was deceleration. Locals speak of living on ''Delta time,'' and if it took a nine-ton floating shoebox to slow our progress for a weekend, I was on board.
Too often, Bay Area residents -- or visitors -- point the car north or south when seeking variety. Marin, Napa, Santa Cruz and Monterey are all wonderful, but I was looking for something with an entirely different vibe. Joined by my crew, of sorts -- my wife, Amy; our toddler; plus Amy's sister; her husband, Erik; and their two kids -- I headed east toward the Delta. In just 90 minutes we were on another planet.
It was a hotter planet. The temperature had risen 25 degrees by the time we got to Stockton, our point of departure. The cultural differences were even starker. The Delta is a realm of muscular trucks hauling sleek Jet Skis, of cherry stands lined with American flags. If Ritual Roasters coffee and tidy Priuses lurked, I saw none. From a certain vantage point, naughty mud flaps can seem perfectly refreshing.
''The minute you have left the dock you have arrived at your destination,'' Erle Stanley Gardner wrote about houseboating on these waters in his 1969 volume ''Drifting Down the Delta'' -- my selected reading during our trip. Decades ago, Gardner, the best-selling detective novelist, had been a regular out here, and more than once he stepped away from Perry Mason and his other characters to celebrate the region.
As Gardner made clear, piloting a boat is a breeze. After a brief orientation from the rental company, we were steering ourselves out through Disappointment Slough. If you can drive a very slow car, it turns out, you can drive a houseboat.
Undoubtedly, kayaks, canoes and regular motorboats would also have floated admirably. A car puts you at street level in the wonderfully funky surrounding Delta towns. But there's something about the bygone pastime of houseboating that gave our weekend the whiff of another era. Once these channels were jammed with pokey tubs like ours, and the sweet clinking of martini glasses at sunset. Now, all but one of the houseboat rental companies have vanished, and it's mostly glittery bass boats and elaborate yachts that scoot past.
What does one do in a pokey tub? With Nemo-like authority I'd demanded clearly stated goals from my crew before the trip. Melissa, my sister-in-law, declared she would identify at least one bird from her bird book. Erik hoped to achieve such leisure that his innate ability to guess the time of day would be thrown off by at least two hours. Their son, Elio, 5, would catch his first fish. And Amy wished to rediscover dormant juggling skills.
One goal easily attained during our three days and couple dozen miles on the water: admiring the scenery. Cranes, pelicans, geese and seals mingled with discarded farm equipment -- and the occasional abandoned Datsun -- on the banks. Here we'd pass a gleaming ski boat, there a half-buried shanty. One moment we were in the Louisiana bayou, another a pristine lagoon on Martha's Vineyard.
''An interval of restful contemplation,'' Gardner called his time on these waters. I agreed: Traveling 3 to 5 miles per hour means you can set the steering wheel, wander back to the kitchen, mix two parts whiskey with one part soda water and return to your post without losing your train of thought. When restlessness hits, entertainment surrounds. At a secluded cove, Erik yelped and plunged in off the stern, and soon we were all backstroking under a hazy, slow-motion sunset.
Gardner eventually came to travel with not one but two houseboats, one for men and one for women -- including one or two secretaries. (The women, he explained, could ''watch television, discuss clothes, dress and undress as they please.'') I happened to have zero secretaries, but no matter. We meandered during the day, pausing occasionally to throw in a line, or bake a little on the roof. Amy juggled, Elio sought bass. ''Cormorant,'' Melissa ventured without confidence. We passed spots with wonderful names: Potato Cut, Prisoners Point, Three River Reach.
This is the middle of nowhere, one might think. But in some ways it's the middle of everything -- arguably the most significant acreage in the state. It's from the Delta that about two-thirds of all Californians and millions of acres of farmland get their water, thanks to the engineering marvel that is the state's water delivery system -- though few experts consider the arrangement wholly sustainable.
Then there are the crumbling levees that converted this marshland into arable tracts over a century ago; some scientists now fear another Katrina. A breach of the levees -- by earthquake, by rising sea level -- could decimate the region, and send ocean water surging into the water system. It's no exaggeration to say that the economic and environmental future of California hinges on the stuff we were floating on.
The Delta happens to be a terrifically calm place for contemplating such disturbing scenarios. We'd come in May. Supposedly spring-break types flock to certain corners of the Delta in the hotter months, but no hedonism interrupted our peace. Indeed, when we heard Creedence Clearwater Revival emanating from up around a bend at one point, we made a beeline for what proved to be a genuine river bar. None of us had ever set foot in one, but we liked its suggestion of dark, swampy intrigue.
Inside, a mass of Bud-swilling bikers suggested something more straightforward. We mingled, then left -- not our scene, strictly speaking, but a welcome break from more typical Bay Area gatherings. I saw no fleece or microbrews. We motored on.
Mellowness was always just around the corner, and soon we were in another hushed little cove. As dusk fell we watched a tree in the distance go white with egrets. I started the grill and Amy poured whiskey. Someone asked Erik the time and he barely understood the question.
IF YOU GO
GETTING THERE
The Paradise Point Marina, where you pick up a boat, is a 90-minute drive from San Francisco. (So are the neat little Delta towns of Locke, Isleton and Rio Vista, if you have time to kill.)
THE BOATS
Seven Crown Resorts (800-752-9669; sevencrown.com) rents different sizes of houseboat, for up to 10 or 12 people, starting at $750, plus gas, for two nights. (We guzzled 35 gallons over three days.) The vessels are simple to operate and -- knock wood -- unsinkable. Bring food, water, bedding and toiletries.
If you'd prefer to leave the driving to someone else, Delta Ecotours (916-775-4545; deltaecotours.com) offers guided day excursions with an emphasis on the history and ecology of the region. Tours start at $35.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: You're never far from a swimming hole as you float along the winding waterways of the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta in Northern California. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK BLOOM) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE VESSELS (90%)

PERSON: HARRISON FORD (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



630 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: Syrians Show New Ardor for a Turkey Looking Eastward

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

 BODY:
GAZIANTEP, Turkey -- Well-heeled Syrians had already been coming to this ancient industrial city, drawn here by Louis Vuitton purses and storefront signs in Arabic. But local shop owners say Israel's deadly raid on a Turkish-led flotilla to Gaza in May has solidified an already blossoming friendship between Syria and Turkey, the new hero of the Muslim world.
''People in Syria love Turkey because the country supports the Arab world, and they are fellow Muslims,'' Zakria Shavek, 37, a driver for a Syrian transport company based in Gaziantep, said as he deposited a family of newly arrived shoppers from Aleppo, which competes with Damascus for the title of Syria's largest city and is about a two-hour drive from here. ''Our enemy in the world is Israel, so we also like Turkey because our enemy's enemy is our friend.''
The monthly pilgrimages of tens of thousands of Syrians to this southeastern Turkish city -- which intensified after the two countries removed visa requirements last September -- are just the latest manifestation of the growing ties between Turkey and Syria, part of the Turkish government's efforts to reach out to its neighbors by using economic and cultural links to help it become a regional leader. 
Turkey's shift toward the Muslim world -- from the recent clash with Israel to Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's description of Iran's nuclear program as peaceful -- has prompted concerns in the United States and Europe that Turkey, an important NATO ally, is turning its back on the West.
But in Turkey, where 70 percent of all exports go to Europe, businesspeople insist that the government's policy of cultivating friendly ties with all neighbors reflects a canny and very Western capitalist impulse to offset dependence on stagnating European markets while cementing Turkey's position as a vital economic and political bridge between east and west.
Indeed, most Arab states, including Syria, enthusiastically support Turkey's bid to join the European Union, viewing Turkey as a vital intermediary to Western markets that might otherwise be off limits. At the political level, Turkey's influence in the Middle East is also deeply enhanced by its strong Western ties -- a fact recognized by Syria's president, Bashar al-Assad, who shocked many in the Turkish capital this month by warning that the latest crisis between Israel and Turkey could undermine Ankara's role as a mediator in the region.
Only 10 years ago, relations between Syria and Turkey were strained, with Turkey accusing Syria of sheltering Kurdish separatists and Syria lashing out at Turkey over water and territorial disputes. Syrians also harbored historical resentments of Ottoman subjugation, while many secular Turks, defined by the Western orientation of Turkey's founder, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, saw Syria as autocratic and backward.
With the recent elimination of border restrictions, however, Turkish exports of everything from tea to textiles to diapers are booming, along with a newfound ardor.
''Today, Arab countries that once resented us want to be like us, even if they are looking to Turks more than we are looking to them,'' said Emin Berk, a Turk who is coordinator of the Turkey-Syria Trade Office here.
Trade between Turkey and Syria more than doubled from $795 million in 2006 to $1.6 billion in 2009, and is expected to reach $5 billion in the next three years. Last year the Middle East received nearly 20 percent of Turkey's exports, about $19.2 billion worth of goods, compared with 12.5 percent in 2004. In Iran, Turkish companies are making products including fertilizer and sanitary products for women. Iran, in turn, is an important source of energy to Turkey.
Here in Gaziantep -- whose past is so intertwined with Syria's that it was part of Aleppo Province during the Ottoman Empire -- the signs of the new honeymoon between Turkey and Syria are everywhere.
Every Friday, several thousand Syrians descend on the center of town. Lured by bargains and Western brands, most head immediately to the Sanko Park shopping mall, the largest in town, where their lavish shopping sprees have made them coveted customers. In the city's bazaars, pistachio vendors summon passers-by in Arabic, while Arabic courses for Turkish businessmen are flourishing. Marriages between Turks and Syrians have become more common.
In Syria, meanwhile, where the alliance with secular Turkey represents a move away from its courtship with Iran, Turkey's blend of conservative Islam and cosmopolitan democracy is increasingly viewed as a model in the younger generation. Turkish soap operas and films are attaining cult status, while ''Made in Turkey'' labels near the cachet of Paris or Milan.
On a recent day at the gleaming Sanko Park mall, Mays al-Hindawi Bayrak, a chic 27-year-old Syrian who was buying a Pierre Cardin shirt for her Turkish husband, observed that for Syrians, Turkey had become synonymous with European modernity. After Turkey recently lashed out at Israel, she said, her 21-year-old brother told the family he wanted to apply for Turkish citizenship.
''In the past, many Turks thought that all Arab women wear burqas and that all the men drive camels to work,'' she said. ''Now, we are getting to know each other better.''
Turkish businesspeople here say that regardless of whether the governing party's politics is driving economics or the other way around, what matters is that the new openness to the east is enhancing the bottom line.
Cengiz Akinal, managing director of Akinal Bella, a large shoe manufacturer, said that the Islamic-inspired politics of the governing Justice and Development Party had helped ease relations with Arabic clients. The company, which exports a majority of its shoes to Europe, increased its exports to Syria by 40 percent last year.
Mr. Akinal, whose ancestors imported leather from Syria during the Ottoman Empire and produced shoes for the sultans, recently shifted part of the company's manufacturing to Aleppo and Damascus, where monthly wages are about half those of Turkey. But he said Syria was still decades behind Turkey when it came to quality standards and technical know-how.
''Turkey may be 15 years behind Europe, but Syria is still 30 years behind Turkey,'' he said.
Indeed, businesspeople say the shift toward the Middle East is forcing them to change the way they do business after decades of trying to cultivate Western European attitudes. Mr. Akinal noted, for example, that negotiations with Arabic corporate clients over price were reminiscent of a Middle Eastern bazaar rather than a boardroom.
''With Europeans, you can have a deal in a half an hour,'' he said. ''With Syrians, I sometimes spend the whole day bargaining.''
While most people here welcome the Syrian invasion, some Turks complained that the Syrians were pushing up the prices of everything from hotels to designer dresses. Others lamented that Syrians' religious conservatism was out of place in secular Turkey.
''We are more liberal than they are, and it can sometimes be uncomfortable when the women arrive covered from head to toe and the men leer at you,'' said Deniz, a Turkish teenager in ripped jeans and a T-shirt, who declined to give her last name for fear of antagonizing her Syrian boss.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Syrians flock to the Turkish city of Gaziantep for its Western goods, including those at the Sanko Park mall, top. Israel's raid on a Turkish flotilla has renewed Syrians' sense of kinship with Turkey.
 The weekly pilgrimage of thousands of Syrians to Gaziantep is one manifestation of the growing friendship between Turkey and Syria. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Gaziantep is an ancient industrial city with longtime ties to Syria. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RETAILERS (78%); RELIGION (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (60%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (91%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (91%); LVMH (BIT) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (91%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (91%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%); ANKARA, TURKEY (92%) SYRIA (99%); TURKEY (99%); ISRAEL (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



631 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 2867 words

HEADLINE: The Latino Lag

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER. 
Joseph Berger, a metropolitan reporter for The Times, taught a course last spring on immigrant neighborhoods at Macaulay Honors College of City University of New York.

 BODY:
THE odyssey of Hilda Segovia offers a vivid illustration of why Hispanic students are often less prepared to weather the adventure of college and more vulnerable to giving up once they begin.
Slender, pale and bashful, Ms. Segovia is a 25-year-old woman who came to New York from Ecuador illegally six years ago. After working several low-wage jobs like running food to the tables at a French restaurant, she decided to improve her English so she might get a job as a waitress. She enrolled in a free English as a second language class at LaGuardia Community College's continuing education program, located in an industrial warren of western Queens. There, a teacher set her off on her elusive quest.
''He told me I could make something more of myself besides just learning English, have a degree in something,'' she said.
But she soon found out how little equipped she was for college study. Not only was Ms. Segovia's English rocky, but she had only the mistiest notions of what college was all about. ''I didn't know what a credit was,'' she said. ''I felt ashamed to ask other students.'' 
She had to learn the ropes on her own. Her parents couldn't help. They had stopped their education back in Ecuador at the end of the primary grades, so for them college might as well have been an ungraspable mirage.
Once Ms. Segovia made the plunge, she quickly learned that as an illegal immigrant she could not qualify for government aid (though no federal law prohibits illegal immigrants from attending college). After one year in the college's noncredit language immersion program and a second year taking two courses, she has earned a 3.78 grade-point average. She wonders whether she will be able to stay the course and graduate with an associate degree. Her husband, an electrical worker, has supported her studies, but she has already spent $6,000 and will soon exhaust their savings. Ms. Segovia is unable to work full time to help defray costs because she has a 4-year-old son.
''Even if I get a degree, I will still be illegal,'' she said dejectedly. ''I hope my luck changes.''
Ms. Segovia's story is the kind that offers valuable if humbling lessons to policy makers as they wrestle with what to do about an achievement gap that is often neglected in the public debates about education. Among the major ethnic groups, Hispanics appear to have the weakest rates for going to college and actually attaining a degree once there.
Only 13 percent of Hispanic adults have received at least a bachelor's degree, compared with 31 percent of non-Hispanic whites, 18 percent of blacks and 50 percent of Asians, Census studies show. The proportion of 16- to 19-year-old Latinos who have dropped out of high school -- 9 percent -- is more than twice as high as that for whites, four times as high as Asians, and higher than the rate for blacks, which is 7 percent, according to an analysis of 2008 Census data by the Pew Hispanic Center. And only 28 percent of college-age Latinos are enrolled in college, compared with 45 percent of whites, 64 percent of Asians and 34 percent of blacks.
The data are partly a statistical fallacy because a majority of the Latinos counted are immigrants, many with weak English skills. When only native-born Hispanics are counted, the gaps narrow; dropout and college endurance statistics roughly match those of blacks. Still, there remains a large gap with Asians and whites.
Such gaps are sure to get more attention as Hispanics become a larger share of the population. In a decade, Latinos are expected to make up 20 percent of the college-age population. Their performance could turn out to be a critical issue for President Obama, who last year challenged the country to lead the world by 2020 in students completing college. The United States ranks seventh in the proportion of adults enrolled in college, at 34 percent, compared with top-ranked South Korea at 53 percent.
Experts say they doubt that Mr. Obama's goal will be met unless a significantly larger proportion of Latinos graduate. They express concern that an increasingly vocal strain of anti-immigrant sentiment -- demonstrated in the Arizona law passed this year that grants local police greater authority to check the legal status of people they stop -- would discourage Latinos from pursuing college studies.
Why there is a lag in Hispanic educational achievement continues to frustrate educators and experts, and a whole range of causes are cited. The Pew Hispanic Center has surveyed the Latino population and, according to Mark Hugo Lopez, the associate director, the reasons are both economic and cultural.
Pew surveys show that Latino parents say they value education as much as any other group. But when Pew interviewed 16- to 25-year-olds who cut their education short during or right after high school, it found that nearly three-quarters said they did so because they had to help their family, Mr. Lopez said. Four in 10 said they didn't need more education for the occupations they were pursuing. In addition, young Latinas are more likely to be teenage mothers whose need to care for infants makes attending college difficult.
To Deborah Santiago, vice president for policy and research at Excelencia in Education, a Washington-based advocacy group for Hispanic students, ''the challenge is to link aspiration, which is high, with actualization, which is low.'' She added: ''If you are not working, and paying a school to take classes, those are economic costs for a family, and low-income families in every ethnic group face that economic challenge continually.''
Also, many immigrant parents were not well educated in their home countries; 34 percent of foreign-born Hispanic adults have less than a ninth-grade education, according to Census data.
''One of the biggest predictors of educational attainment is the mother's education level,'' Ms. Santiago said. ''If the mother doesn't have a good education, than the child is not going to have a good education.'' That means that college ambitions will not be on an immigrant family's front burner and, even if they are, parents may not understand the options available -- like the ability of high-performing students to apply to selective out-of-town colleges or exploit scholarship programs.
Ms. Santiago, 41, the daughter of Puerto Rican migrants who settled in the Washington, D.C., area, recalled that ''my parents didn't know what it would take to get to college,'' and in 1986 she chose the University of Mary Washington in Fredericksburg, Va., then a small liberal arts college, because a third cousin had attended.
''I figured it out on my own,'' she said.
She counts herself lucky that she went to a small school -- even if it only had 17 Latinos at the time -- because professors gave her more attention, she says, and financial aid counselors told her about scholarships no one else had applied for.
Once in college, Latino students often find it harder than students from other ethnic groups to navigate the system. They are more likely to find themselves bogged down in remedial and E.S.L. courses -- for no credit -- and see the hurdles to college completion growing more difficult rather than easier. In public colleges particularly, there might not be enough guidance counselors to goad, console or advise them.
Ximena Santos, 22, an Ecuadorian immigrant, said that until she started LaGuardia's English immersion program, she didn't know what an essay was. In her high school, brief answers were the norm. Because she, too, is undocumented and cannot qualify for government aid, she has supported her studies by working as a waitress or in Long Island City's jewelry factories and with help from her mother, a restaurant cook.
To remedy ignorance of college logistics, Excelencia and other advocates recommend the kind of learning communities that can be found at LaGuardia, a branch of the City University of New York, or at the University of Texas, El Paso, or El Camino College in Torrance, Calif. All are regarded under federal guidelines as Hispanic-serving colleges, meaning more than 25 percent of students are Hispanic. About 200 institutions across the country -- the highest concentrations being in California, New Mexico, Texas and New York -- meet the designation, which makes them eligible for special funds.
The concept of learning communities is that groups of students who stick together through much of their daily coursework can help one another when stumped, or inform one another about tactical matters.
''Because we're a commuter school, students take classes and leave campus, and it's hard to build relationships with other students,'' said Marian Blaber, who directs LaGuardia's language immersion program and administers a $50,000 Excelencia grant to provide and train counselors who, among other things, help students balance their array of courses and find tutors for difficult subjects like chemistry.
The grant is called Semillas, Spanish for seeds. Excelencia doles out $1 million in such grants each year around the country to help students segue into college, with funds provided by philanthropies like the Wal-Mart Foundation and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
Caroline Zapata, the 21-year-old daughter of a Midtown Manhattan maintenance man from Colombia, says that her fellow classmates help her with pronunciation and can explain enigmatic concepts. ''Sometimes the professor speaks very fast and I'm confused and I don't want to interrupt the class and ask the professor, so the other students explain it to me afterward,'' she said in still-halting English. ''I also feel like I'm not the only one in class so I feel encouraged to study again and again. And I see people who are similar to me who are doing even worse.''
Preparation in high school is crucial, educators say. There are high schools with Hispanic majorities that strategically encourage students to focus on getting into college starting in the 10th grade. At the Bronx High School of Medical Science, a small school of 400 students in the former Taft High School building, all but one or two of its graduates go on to college.
The school has teachers like Edwin Calderon, a math instructor who himself had been an example of the problem and is now part of the solution. When he was a teenager in the early 1980s, he, like too many Latino youngsters, felt that graduating from high school was achievement enough. ''My mom graduated fourth grade, so that was a big accomplishment,'' he said.
Rather than toil through four years of college, he was set on joining the blue-collar workforce. Luckily, a math teacher, impressed by his gift for deciphering the labyrinthine pathways of numbers, insisted he go to college and helped him sign up for the SAT and fill out undergraduate applications.
That encounter led to his admission to the State University of New York at Stony Brook. After graduation, he became a financial analyst, then switched to teaching math and found his way to the Medical Science high school, near the Grand Concourse, not far from where he grew up. It is one of six compact high schools on Taft's campus, and 70 percent of its students are Hispanic. It is also one of 12 Bronx high schools that receive enrichment through Lehman College to prepare 11th graders for college-level math courses. The Bronx Center for Teaching Innovations at Lehman provides tutors for students and trains teachers and furnishes them with educational technology and teaching guides -- a treasure chest of, for example, mathematical mind-benders.
The other day, Mr. Calderon departed from the calculus and precalculus instruction in his 11th-grade math class and added an offbeat algebraic problem. What if a math teacher gave half the coins in his pocket, plus one, to a student and continued to divvy coins up this way to three other students until he had none left.
''How many coins did he have at the beginning?'' Mr. Calderon asked.
Three students went up to the board and using different approaches -- two starting from the teacher's first gift of coins, the others working backward from the last gift -- came up with the answer of 30. That delighted Mr. Calderon because the students had sliced through a problem using their own ''out-of-the-box'' conceptions and had not resorted to a single formula. That analytical talent will help them in college, he said.
''Kids need the realization that you approach problems different ways,'' he said.
Mr. Calderon, a sturdily built and self-assured man who has boxed professionally, talked later of several students who did not believe they had the ability to handle college, or whose parents had told them to stay home and have babies, and how they had gained confidence by solving problems in his class. Yet, from his own upbringing as one of six children, he says he knows how chancy the odds can be for students raised in poor, single-parent families. One of Mr. Calderon's siblings did become a psychiatrist, and another an assistant principal, but three others, he says, had their prospects cut short by drugs and crime.
At Bronx Medical Science, the odds of making it all the way to a college diploma are also not that good. Students have been admitted to, and gotten through, selective colleges like Columbia and Brandeis. But administrators say they worry about those who attend CUNY. Of the 24 Medical Science students who started CUNY's community or senior colleges in fall 2007, fewer than half were enrolled by the spring of 2009. William Quintana, the school's exuberant principal, does not blame the colleges alone.
Too many families, he said, take trips to their home countries when their jobs permit, pulling their children out of school during an important time for learning or tests. Older children in single-parent homes must drop off younger siblings at other schools, even if it means missing class.
''Families need to change their perspectives about education,'' he said. ''They must make education a priority.''
Mr. Quintana worked the night shift as an Upper East Side doorman after he emigrated from Colombia in the 1980s while taking courses in teaching. He encourages his students to take college-credit courses through CUNY's free College Now program, at Lehman, Hostos Community College and Bronx Community College. Half his students do. When parents feel their children are being burdened, he tells them epigrammatically: ''All of those dropping this course will end up working for those that remain.''
''Hard work will always result in a higher position,'' he said.
But he and other educators concede that taking such courses is not a simple matter. Kasmira Torres, a junior at Lehman who tutors Medical Science students, told of working with some who juggle two jobs to support their parents, and others who dash home after school to baby-sit younger siblings.
Anne Walsh, head of the Bronx Center for Teaching Innovations, said she still doesn't know whether the enrichment program, which started last September, will succeed. Some teachers, she said, ''have embraced the program more than others.'' The laggers, she said, seem to find it hard to squeeze enrichment activities into lessons because the high school curriculum is so packed and needs to be completed in time for the Regents exams.
The LaGuardia learning communities for accelerated students -- part of a $6.5 million, three-year program that offers free tuition, stipends for books and free subway and bus passes -- has seen more encouraging results. More than a third of the first cohort of 1,132 students was Hispanic. Donna Linderman, director of the program, which is CUNY wide, said that Hispanic students who started in fall 2007 had more than twice the two-year and three-year graduation rates -- 27 percent and 57 percent respectively -- of a comparison group.
The road to a degree for many must begin with language immersion. Carol Diaz, a cheerful 21-year-old from the Dominican Republic, said that a counselor in the program had helped her select college-credit courses that would not set her up for failure and coached her with tips for success -- for example, that sitting in the front of her class would force her to pay better attention. Such advice was important for Ms. Diaz, the daughter of estranged parents who has been living on her own practically since she came here at age 18, paying her own rent and food bills. She continues to work 12 hours every weekend as a dental assistant.
''My parents didn't go to college and they don't believe in that,'' she said with a flash of anger. ''They don't care about my education.''
She wants to be an occupational therapist and so far has successfully completed three courses -- in biology, community health and English -- and has gotten good grades by spending long hours reviewing the content in a language she still is not completely comfortable with.
''I was in school every day at 10 a.m. until they kicked me out of the building,'' she said. ''People don't know how high they can reach. They feel they can make enough money cleaning house.''
She is already talking about staying on track all the way to a doctorate so she can open her own occupational therapy clinic. A goal like that may just propel her all the way through to a college degree.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NOW IT ADDS UP: Edwin Calderon preparing 11th graders at the Bronx High School of Medical Science for college-level mathematics. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ED16)
PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ED17)
 PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ED19) CHART: Elusive Success: Hispanics seem to have the least educational success among major ethnic groups in the United States, with rates brought down by immigrant students, according to a 2008 survey of residents, age 25 and older. (Source: Pew Hispanic Center) (ED17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MULTILINGUALISM (89%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (89%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); GRADES & GRADING (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); LANGUAGE SCHOOLS (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (64%); ETHNICITY (60%); CENSUS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); ECUADOR (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



632 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3257 words

HEADLINE: THE ROBERTS COURT; The Most Conservative Court in Decades

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and his colleagues on the Supreme Court left for their summer break at the end of June, they marked a milestone: the Roberts court had just completed its fifth term.
In those five years, the court not only moved to the right but also became the most conservative one in living memory, based on an analysis of four sets of political science data.
And for all the public debate about the confirmation of Elena Kagan or the addition last year of Justice Sonia Sotomayor, there is no reason to think they will make a difference in the court's ideological balance. Indeed, the data show that only one recent replacement altered its direction, that of Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. for Justice Sandra Day O'Connor in 2006, pulling the court to the right.
There is no similar switch on the horizon. That means that Chief Justice Roberts, 55, is settling in for what is likely to be a very long tenure at the head of a court that seems to be entering a period of stability. 
If the Roberts court continues on the course suggested by its first five years, it is likely to allow a greater role for religion in public life, to permit more participation by unions and corporations in elections and to elaborate further on the scope of the Second Amendment's right to bear arms. Abortion rights are likely to be curtailed, as are affirmative action and protections for people accused of crimes.
The recent shift to the right is modest. And the court's decisions have hardly been uniformly conservative. The justices have, for instance, limited the use of the death penalty and rejected broad claims of executive power in the government's efforts to combat terrorism.
But scholars who look at overall trends rather than individual decisions say that widely accepted political science data tell an unmistakable story about a notably conservative court.
Almost all judicial decisions, they say, can be assigned an ideological value. Those favoring, say, prosecutors and employers are said to be conservative, while those favoring criminal defendants and people claiming discrimination are said to be liberal.
Analyses of databases coding Supreme Court decisions and justices' votes along these lines, one going back to 1953 and another to 1937, show that the Roberts court has staked out territory to the right of the two conservative courts that immediately preceded it by four distinct measures:
In its first five years, the Roberts court issued conservative decisions 58 percent of the time. And in the term ending a year ago, the rate rose to 65 percent, the highest number in any year since at least 1953.
The courts led by Chief Justices Warren E. Burger, from 1969 to 1986, and William H. Rehnquist, from 1986 to 2005, issued conservative decisions at an almost indistinguishable rate -- 55 percent of the time.
That was a sharp break from the court led by Chief Justice Earl Warren, from 1953 to 1969, in what liberals consider the Supreme Court's golden age and conservatives portray as the height of inappropriate judicial meddling. That court issued conservative decisions 34 percent of the time.
Four of the six most conservative justices of the 44 who have sat on the court since 1937 are serving now: Chief Justice Roberts and Justices Alito, Antonin Scalia and, most conservative of all, Clarence Thomas. (The other two were Chief Justices Burger and Rehnquist.) Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, the swing justice on the current court, is in the top 10.
The Roberts court is finding laws unconstitutional and reversing precedent -- two measures of activism -- no more often than earlier courts. But the ideological direction of the court's activism has undergone a marked change toward conservative results.
Until she retired in 2006, Justice O'Connor was very often the court's swing vote, and in her later years she had drifted to the center-left. These days, Justice Kennedy has assumed that crucial role at the court's center, moving the court to the right.
Justice John Paul Stevens, who retired in June, had his own way of tallying the court's direction. In an interview in his chambers in April, he said that every one of the 11 justices who had joined the court since 1975, including himself, was more conservative than his or her predecessor, with the possible exceptions of Justices Sotomayor and Ruth Bader Ginsburg.
The numbers largely bear this out, though Chief Justice Roberts is slightly more liberal than his predecessor, Chief Justice Rehnquist, at least if all of Chief Justice Rehnquist's 33 years on the court, 14 of them as an associate justice, are considered. (In later years, some of his views softened.)
But Justice Stevens did not consider the question difficult. Asked if the replacement of Chief Justice Rehnquist by Chief Justice Roberts had moved the court to the right, he did not hesitate.
''Oh, yes,'' Justice Stevens said.
The Most Significant Change
''Gosh,'' Justice Sandra Day O'Connor said at a law school forum in January a few days after the Supreme Court undid one of her major achievements by reversing a decision on campaign spending limits. ''I step away for a couple of years and there's no telling what's going to happen.''
When Justice O'Connor announced her retirement in 2005, the membership of the Rehnquist court had been stable for 11 years, the second-longest stretch without a new justice in American history.
Since then, the pace of change has been dizzying, and several justices have said they found it disorienting. But in an analysis of the court's direction, some changes matter much more than others. Chief Justice Rehnquist died soon after Justice O'Connor announced that she was stepping down. He was replaced by Chief Justice Roberts, his former law clerk. Justice David H. Souter retired in 2009 and was succeeded by Justice Sotomayor. Justice Stevens followed Justice Souter this year, and he is likely to be succeeded by Elena Kagan.
But not one of those three replacements seems likely to affect the fundamental ideological alignment of the court. Chief Justice Rehnquist, a conservative, was replaced by a conservative. Justices Souter and Stevens, both liberals, have been or are likely to be succeeded by liberals.
Justices' views can shift over time. Even if they do not, a justice's place in the court's ideological spectrum can move as new justices arrive. And chief justices may be able to affect the overall direction of the court, notably by using the power to determine who writes the opinion for the court when they are in the majority. Chief Justice Roberts is certainly widely viewed as a canny tactician.
But only one change -- Justice Alito's replacement of Justice O'Connor -- really mattered. That move defines the Roberts court. ''That's a real switch in terms of ideology and a switch in terms of outlook,'' said Lee Epstein, who teaches law and political science at Northwestern University and is a leading curator and analyst of empirical data about the Supreme Court.
The point is not that Justice Alito has turned out to be exceptionally conservative, though he has: he is the third-most conservative justice to serve on the court since 1937, behind only Justice Thomas and Chief Justice Rehnquist. It is that he replaced the more liberal justice who was at the ideological center of the court.
Though Chief Justice Roberts gets all the attention, Justice Alito may thus be the lasting triumph of the administration of President George W. Bush. He thrust Justice Kennedy to the court's center and has reshaped the future of American law.
It is easy to forget that Justice Alito was Mr. Bush's second choice. Had his first nominee, the apparently less conservative Harriet E. Miers, not withdrawn after a rebellion from Mr. Bush's conservative base, the nature of the Roberts court might have been entirely different.
By the end of her almost quarter-century on the court, Justice O'Connor was without question the justice who controlled the result in ideologically divided cases.
''On virtually all conceptual and empirical definitions, O'Connor is the court's center -- the median, the key, the critical and the swing justice,'' Andrew D. Martin and two colleagues wrote in a study published in 2005 in The North Carolina Law Review shortly before Justice O'Connor's retirement.
With Justice Alito joining the court's more conservative wing, Justice Kennedy has now unambiguously taken on the role of the justice at the center of the court, and the ideological daylight between him and Justice O'Connor is a measure of the Roberts court's shift to the right.
Justice O'Connor, for her part, does not name names but has expressed misgivings about the direction of the court.
''If you think you've been helpful, and then it's dismantled, you think, 'Oh, dear,' '' she said at William & Mary Law School in October in her usual crisp and no-nonsense fashion. ''But life goes on. It's not always positive.''
Justice O'Connor was one of the authors of McConnell v. Federal Election Commission, a 2003 decision that, among other things, upheld restrictions on campaign spending by businesses and unions. It was reversed on that point in the Citizens United decision.
Asked at the law school forum in January how she felt about the later decision, she responded obliquely. But there was no mistaking her meaning.
''If you want my legal opinion'' about Citizens United, Justice O'Connor said, ''you can go read'' McConnell.
The Court Without O'Connor
The shift resulting from Justice O'Connor's departure was more than ideological. She brought with her qualities that are no longer represented on the court. She was raised and educated in the West, and she served in all three branches of Arizona's government, including as a government lawyer, majority leader of the State Senate, an elected trial judge and an appeals court judge.
Those experiences informed Justice O'Connor's sensitivity to states' rights and her frequent deference to political judgments. Her rulings were often pragmatic and narrow, and her critics said she engaged in split-the-difference jurisprudence.
Justice Alito's background is more limited than Justice O'Connor's -- he worked in the Justice Department and then as a federal appeals court judge -- and his rulings are often more muscular.
Since they never sat on the court together, trying to say how Justice O'Connor would have voted in the cases heard by Justice Alito generally involves extrapolation and speculation. In some, though, it seems plain that she would have voted differently from him.
Just weeks before she left the court, for instance, Justice O'Connor heard arguments in Hudson v. Michigan, a case about whether evidence should be suppressed because it was found after Detroit police officers stormed a home without announcing themselves.
''Is there no policy protecting the homeowner a little bit and the sanctity of the home from this immediate entry?'' Justice O'Connor asked a government lawyer. David A. Moran, a lawyer for the defendant, Booker T. Hudson, said the questioning left him confident that he had Justice O'Connor's crucial vote.
Three months later, the court called for reargument, signaling a 4-to-4 deadlock after Justice O'Connor's departure. When the 5-to-4 decision was announced in June, the court not only ruled that violations of the knock-and-announce rule do not require the suppression of evidence, but also called into question the exclusionary rule itself.
The shift had taken place. Justice Alito was in the majority.
''My 5-4 loss in Hudson v. Michigan,'' Mr. Moran wrote in 2006 in Cato Supreme Court Review, ''signals the end of the Fourth Amendment'' -- protecting against unreasonable searches -- ''as we know it.''
The departure of Justice O'Connor very likely affected the outcomes in two other contentious areas: abortion and race.
In 2000, the court struck down a Nebraska law banning an abortion procedure by a vote of 5 to 4, with Justice O'Connor in the majority. Seven years later, the court upheld a similar federal law, the Partial-Birth Abortion Act, by the same vote.
''The key to the case was not in the difference in wording between the federal law and the Nebraska act,'' Erwin Chemerinsky wrote in 2007 in The Green Bag, a law journal. ''It was Justice Alito having replaced Justice O'Connor.''
In 2003, Justice O'Connor wrote the majority opinion in a 5-to-4 decision allowing public universities to take account of race in admissions decisions. And a month before her retirement in 2006, the court refused to hear a case challenging the use of race to achieve integration in public schools.
Almost as soon as she left, the court reversed course. A 2007 decision limited the use of race for such a purpose, also on a 5-to-4 vote.
There were, to be sure, issues on which Justice Kennedy was to the left of Justice O'Connor. In a 5-to-4 decision in 2005 overturning the juvenile death penalty, Justice Kennedy was in the majority and Justice O'Connor was not.
But changing swing justices in 2006 had an unmistakable effect across a broad range of cases. ''O'Connor at the end was quite a bit more liberal than Kennedy is now,'' Professor Epstein said.
The numbers bear this out.
The Rehnquist court had trended left in its later years, issuing conservative rulings less than half the time in its last two years in divided cases, a phenomenon not seen since 1981. The first term of the Roberts court was a sharp jolt to the right. It issued conservative rulings in 71 percent of divided cases, the highest rate in any year since the beginning of the Warren court in 1953.
Judging by the Numbers
Chief Justice Roberts has not served nearly as long as his three most recent predecessors. The court he leads has been in flux. But five years of data are now available, and they point almost uniformly in one direction: to the right.
Scholars quarrel about some of the methodological choices made by political scientists who assign a conservative or liberal label to Supreme Court decisions and the votes of individual justices. But most of those arguments are at the margins, and the measures are generally accepted in the political science literature.
The leading database, created by Harold J. Spaeth with the support of the National Science Foundation about 20 years ago, has served as the basis for a great deal of empirical research on the contemporary Supreme Court and its members. In the database, votes favoring criminal defendants, unions, people claiming discrimination or violation of their civil rights are, for instance, said to be liberal. Decisions striking down economic regulations and favoring prosecutors, employers and the government are said to be conservative.
About 1 percent of cases have no ideological valence, as in a boundary dispute between two states. And some concern multiple issues or contain ideological cross-currents.
But while it is easy to identify the occasional case for which ideological coding makes no sense, the vast majority fit pretty well. They also tend to align with the votes of the justices usually said to be liberal or conservative.
Still, such coding is a blunt instrument. It does not take account of the precedential and other constraints that are in play or how much a decision moves the law in a conservative or liberal direction. The mix of cases has changed over time. And the database treats every decision, monumental or trivial, as a single unit.
''It's crazy to count each case as one,'' said Frank B. Cross, a law and business professor at the University of Texas. ''But the problem of counting each case as one is reduced by the fact that the less-important ones tend to be unanimous.''
Some judges find the entire enterprise offensive.
''Supreme Court justices do not acknowledge that any of their decisions are influenced by ideology rather than by neutral legal analysis,'' William M. Landes, an economist at the University of Chicago, and Richard A. Posner, a federal appeals court judge, wrote last year in The Journal of Legal Analysis. But if that were true, they continued, knowing the political party of the president who appointed a given justice would tell you nothing about how the justice was likely to vote in ideologically charged cases.
In fact, the correlation between the political party of appointing presidents and the ideological direction of the rulings of the judges they appoint is quite strong.
Here, too, there are exceptions. Justices Stevens and Souter were appointed by Republican presidents and ended up voting with the court's liberal wing. But they are gone. If Ms. Kagan wins Senate confirmation, all of the justices on the court may be expected to align themselves across the ideological spectrum in sync with the party of the president who appointed them.
The proposition that the Roberts court is to the right of even the quite conservative courts that preceded it thus seems fairly well established. But it is subject to qualifications.
First, the rightward shift is modest.
Second, the data do not take popular attitudes into account. While the court is quite conservative by historical standards, it is less so by contemporary ones. Public opinion polls suggest that about 30 percent of Americans think the current court is too liberal, and almost half think it is about right.
On given legal issues, too, the court's decisions are often closely aligned with or more liberal than public opinion, according to studies collected in 2008 in ''Public Opinion and Constitutional Controversy'' (Oxford University Press).
The public is largely in sync with the court, for instance, in its attitude toward abortion -- in favor of a right to abortion but sympathetic to many restrictions on that right.
''Solid majorities want the court to uphold Roe v. Wade and are in favor of abortion rights in the abstract,'' one of the studies concluded. ''However, equally substantial majorities favor procedural and other restrictions, including waiting periods, parental consent, spousal notification and bans on 'partial birth' abortion.''
Similarly, the public is roughly aligned with the court in questioning affirmative action plans that use numerical standards or preferences while approving those that allow race to be considered in less definitive ways.
The Roberts court has not yet decided a major religion case, but the public has not always approved of earlier rulings in this area. For instance, another study in the 2008 book found that ''public opinion has remained solidly against the court's landmark decisions declaring school prayer unconstitutional.''
In some ways, the Roberts court is more cautious than earlier ones. The Rehnquist court struck down about 120 laws, or about six a year, according to an analysis by Professor Epstein. The Roberts court, which on average hears fewer cases than the Rehnquist court did, has struck down fewer laws -- 15 in its first five years, or three a year.
It is the ideological direction of the decisions that has changed. When the Rehnquist court struck down laws, it reached a liberal result more than 70 percent of the time. The Roberts court has tilted strongly in the opposite direction, reaching a conservative result 60 percent of the time.
The Rehnquist court overruled 45 precedents over 19 years. Sixty percent of those decisions reached a conservative result. The Roberts court overruled eight precedents in its first five years, a slightly lower annual rate. All but one reached a conservative result.
The Roberts Court: Articles in this series will explore the workings of this Supreme Court and the little-understood forces that influence it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., left, whose replacement of Justice Sandra Day O'Connor pulled the court to the right, and Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW CAVANAUGH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A18)
Analysts believe that the Roberts court is unlikely to be swayed from its conservative trend by new members. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) DRAWING (DRAWING BY VIVIENNE FLESHER) (A1)
GRAPHICS: How Current Supreme Court Justices Compare With Their Predecessors (Sources: Lee Epstein, William M. Landes, Richard A. Posner and Harold J. Spaeth) (A18-A19)
CHARTS: How Often the Court Reaches Conservative Results: The Roberts court has issued conservative decisions at a slightly higher rate than the Rehnquist or the Burger courts. It has overturned precedent or struck down laws -- two measures of activism -- less often than previous courts, but those decisions have been predominantly conservative. (Source: Lee Epstein (Northwestern University), William M. Landes and Richard A. Posner (University of Chicago Law School) and Harold J. Spaeth (Michigan State University))
Public Opinion of the Court: Almost half of Americans say the ideology of the Roberts court is about right, according to a survey in 2009. When asked about specific issues that have come before the court recently, a majority of the public gave opinions that were more conservative than the Roberts court in some cases and more liberal in others. (Source: Nathaniel Persily, Columbia Law School, and Stephen Ansolabehere, Harvard University) (A18)
Gray boxes indicate if public opinion is predominantly conservative or the court reached a conservative decision (A18-A19)
 The Justice at the Court's Center: The lines below rate the ideology of each justice's decisions over time, based on a comparison of all of the justices' voting records. The dark line shows the ideology of the median justice, who is often the swing voter in 5-to-4 decisions. Some justices, like Byron R. White, took on this role at multiple points during their career. (Source: Andrew D. Martin (Washington University in St. Louis) and Kevin M. Quinn (UC Berkeley School of Law)) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); TRENDS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (69%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (67%); CHURCH & STATE (51%); ABORTION (50%); TERRORISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (59%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (93%); SAMUEL ALITO (73%); SONIA SOTOMAYOR (58%); ELENA KAGAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



633 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; CONTINUING ED PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: Actress/Activist

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
JUST before Memorial Day, Ashley Judd graduated from Harvard. In a universitywide commencement ceremony, she shared billing with Rose Kennedy Schlossberg, daughter of Caroline, who was getting her bachelor's degree, and Meryl Streep, who was awarded an honorary degree. Ms. Judd's father and ''a mess of girlfriends'' were in Cambridge, Mass., for the ceremony. Her husband, Dario Franchitti, could not attend because of the Indianapolis 500, which he would win that weekend for the second time. He watched live via Harvard's Internet feed, and they texted.
Ms. Judd, who plays tough-yet-vulnerable women on Broadway and in film (''Double Jeopardy,'' ''The Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood''), has spent the last year in the midcareer master's program in public administration at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government.
Hollywood has always had its share of activists -- from Ronald Reagan and Warren Beatty to Madonna and Angelina Jolie. But Ms. Judd is one of the few to get formal training in public service. 
She hardly lacks for causes. She has delivered impassioned speeches to the United NationsGeneral Assembly about sex- and labor-trafficking, and to the National Press Club about mountaintop-removal mining in Kentucky, her home state. She is a board member of PSI, a global health organization where she has worked on issues like maternal health, family planning and malaria prevention.
During her travels in developing countries, she has met women who support themselves with native handicrafts. But it was Martha Chen, one of her Harvard instructors, who taught her the concept of the ''informal economy'' that exists beyond the regulated economy.
Ms. Judd says she attended Harvard not for the prestige -- ''compare, despair,'' she says -- but to become a more effective activist. ''I didn't go to Harvard Kennedy School to be approved of by anyone, but to immerse myself in some very serious, earnest, practical learning with people who have literally dedicated all they have to public service.''
Organizations benefit from charity-minded celebrities who can generate media coverage and encourage donations. Stuart I. Bretschneider, chairman of Syracuse University's public administration department, calls this ''the Bono model,'' in tribute to the U2 lead singer who raises money to fight global poverty.
An understanding of how governments and nonprofits work could help a star activist better manage her celebrity status in the public interest, Dr. Bretschneider says. For those who cannot be Ashley Judd, Syracuse has a course in courting Ashley Judd. It's called ''Fund Development for Nonprofit Organizations.''
A Kennedy School degree can also provide the tools and credibility needed to sit across the table from policy makers and speak their language. Harvard's program is specifically designed for established professionals, often in their 30s and 40s. Notable alumni include Secretary General Ban Ki-moon of the United Nations, Bill O'Reilly of the Fox News Channel, Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly of the New York Police Department and, most recently, the accused Russian secret agent Donald Heathfield.
More typically, public administration programs attract students who want to hone on-the-job skills or are planning moves into government or nonprofit management. Many have altruistic motives.
''Increasingly, you get these social entrepreneurs,'' says Ellen Schall, dean of the Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service at New York University. ''They want to feed the poor, make urban education work, get health care to people who haven't had it, or financial instruments for the unbanked.''
Ms. Judd, at age 42, may be riding the wave of the Obama era, suggests Ms. Schall, who also teaches health policy. ''There's a new interest in public service, because we have a president who cares about public service,'' she says. ''I think people have stopped and taken a look at what they want to do.''
Ms. Judd says that ''going to graduate school is always something I thought I would do.'' But the path was hardly a straight line.
Ms. Judd graduated with honors from the University of Kentucky as a French major with four minors. But her degree was delayed 17 years, until 2007, because, she says, she neglected to complete paperwork for a course substitution in science. Her ''untreated shame from a kooky upbringing'' -- her mother, Naomi, and older sister, Wynonna, are the popular country music singers -- had made her shy of authority and she had not even planned to go to commencement. ''I was ready to blow out of town and get started in the Peace Corps, or bail on that and hit Hollywood, my secret dream.''
From the time she was an undergraduate, she says, she also dreamed of going to Yale or maybe the University of Chicago to study anthropology. More recently, she thought about applying to the University of California at Berkeley for a master's degree in public health, ''under my mentor Malcolm Potts,'' who is on the board with Ms. Judd at PSI.
Since her home is a Tennessee farm, she also considered Vanderbilt, in Nashville. But while visiting campus, she was surprised when ''a really dynamic, brilliant faculty member'' ended their conversation about her interests with a question: ''Why are you not going to Harvard?''
To her, going to Harvard sounded as realistic as ''going to the moon.'' A friend suggested she look up the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at the Kennedy School. Reading about the center's work with exploited women, ''I just began to weep,'' she says. ''I thought, this is my home, these are my people, this is where I'm meant to go.''
She reels off favorite professors and courses, among them: Marshall Ganz and Bernard Steinberg, teaching moral leadership; Jacqueline Bhabha on human rights; Robert Kegan on psychological development in adults; and Diane Rosenfeld on gender violence (for anyone who still thinks she is a dilettante, Ms. Judd won a dean's scholar award for her final paper in that class). She got through quantitative methods -- a core requirement along with classes on management and leadership, democracy and political institutions -- by ''overbooking'' her professor's office hours. ''It was harrowing at first,'' she says, laughing. ''I had no idea that I would go to Harvard to exorcise my 11th-grade geometry demons.''
She loved school so much that she looked forward every weekend to going back. ''Every day I was eating the best piece of homemade pie; it was something I savored,'' she says. ''That entire place was there simply to give. I'm in a position in my life where everybody wants something out of me. I'm constantly on transmit, coping with influx, demands, some of which are very admirable and some of which are just rude, you know.'' For once, she says: ''I wanted to be on receive. I wanted to have a greedy and selfish experience and just take in all I could.''
Fellow students, she says, expressed no cynicism about a movie star's motivation. ''They were shamelessly unapologetic about being do-gooders,'' she says. ''Other people were doing the injustice rage, too. I didn't have to be the standard bearer.''
Talking as she rushes around doing errands a few days after graduation, Ms. Judd says she is still devoted to acting. ''I don't think it's an either/or career,'' she says. ''I'm very spontaneously jumping onto a film. I literally start tomorrow.'' The new film is ''Flypaper,'' a comedy about a bank heist, which is filming in Baton Rouge, La., and costars Patrick Dempsey.
She has hardly had a moment to think about what she will do with her new degree. ''I had nine final papers due between Easter and the end of reading period, and then it was graduation and the Indianapolis 500,'' she says.
But after a pause, she admits that she has thought a little bit beyond ''Flypaper.'' ''One interesting idea is to possibly apply for a White House Fellows position,'' Ms. Judd says. ''That could be pretty cool.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE SISTERHOOD: Ashley Judd last month at a conference on maternal health around the world, and graduating in May. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKE THEILER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
 JOSH REYNOLDS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (76%); FUNDRAISING (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); APPROVALS (65%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (64%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (64%); MALARIA (64%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); AUTO RACING (56%); LABOR TRAFFICKING (51%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (55%)

PERSON: MADONNA (79%); MERYL STREEP (72%); RONALD REAGAN (72%); ANGELINA JOLIE (57%); BONO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (88%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (51%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



634 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: Next Big Battle In Washington: Bush's Tax Cuts

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- An epic fight is brewing over what Congress and President Obama should do about the expiring Bush tax cuts, with such substantial economic and political consequences that it could shape the fall elections and fiscal policy for years to come.
Democratic leaders, including Mr. Obama, say they are intent on letting the tax cuts for the wealthy expire as scheduled at the end of this year. But they have pledged to continue the lower tax rates for individuals earning less than $200,000 and families earning less than $250,000 -- what Democrats call the middle class.
Most Republicans want to extend the tax cuts for everyone, and some Democrats agree, saying it would be unwise to raise taxes on anyone while the economy remains weak. If no action is taken, taxes on income, dividends, capital gains and estates would all rise.
The issue has generated little public attention this year as Congress grappled with health care, financial regulation, energy, a Supreme Court nomination and other divisive topics. But it will move to the top of the agenda when lawmakers return to Washington in September from their summer recess, just as the midterm campaign gets under way in earnest. In recent days, intense discussions have begun at the Capitol. 
Beyond the implications for family checkbooks, the tax fight will serve as a proxy for the bigger political clashes of the year, including the size of government and the best way of handling the tepid economic recovery.
''It has enormous ramifications for the fall and clearly will be one of the dominant issues,'' said Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon. ''This is code for the role of the federal government, the debate over the size of government and the priorities of the nation.''
At a closed-door meeting of the Senate Finance Committee on Thursday, participants said Democrats were clearly divided while Republicans wanted assurances that any bill would be developed openly, allowing them to propose amendments. In a sign of how combustible the issue could be, Senator Max Baucus, a Montana Democrat and the committee's chairman, has so far refused to make that commitment.
Both parties are still charting strategy, but some lawmakers, Congressional aides and administration officials said Democrats must try to pass a bill before the election and not wait for a lame-duck session. ''You can't play chicken with this much of the tax system,'' said a senior Republican Senate aide, who spoke on the condition of anonymity given the sensitivity of even the timing of the debate.
If no tax legislation is passed, all the major tax reductions passed under President George W. Bush in 2001 and 2003 will expire, with rates reverting overnight on Dec. 31. The top marginal income tax rate, for example, would go back to 39.6 percent from 35 percent now, with corresponding increases in rates for lower income brackets.
Given the partisan gridlock of recent months, there is a chance that the battle could go down to the last minute, or even -- in the face of a stalemate -- that the tax cuts could be allowed to expire completely, a development that Republicans are already heralding ominously as the largest tax increase in history and that lawmakers in both parties say could be the worst outcome.
From both political and policy perspectives, the tax issue is dizzyingly complex, and even some of Washington's most grizzled legislative operatives say they cannot predict the outcome.
Some liberals want Mr. Obama to keep his promise to raise taxes on the rich, and the White House's budget forecasts rely heavily on rolling the top income tax rates back to their pre-2001 levels. Some fiscal hawks warn that extending the tax cuts would add more than $2 trillion to the federal budget deficits at a time when the national debt is becoming an economic concern and a political issue. Political economists are fiercely divided.
So are Democrats. In recent days, fiscal conservatives like Senators Kent Conrad of North Dakota and Evan Bayh of Indiana expressed support for extending the tax cuts at all income levels, at least temporarily.
Senior administration officials said there was no interest in such a plan at the White House, which intends to have Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner lead an effort to make the case that continuing tax breaks for the rich will not help lift the economy, but eliminating them will help reduce the deficit.
''We do not buy into the theory that because the economy is still recovering, extending tax cuts for the highest earners is a necessary or effective policy response,'' said Gene Sperling, counselor to Mr. Geithner.
''While we are supporting measures like small-business lending and tax cuts to spark growth,'' Mr. Sperling added, ''it is also important to show the world that we are following through on our commitment to long-term fiscal discipline.''
But the questions go far beyond the basic issue of whether to allow the top two marginal income tax rates to rise.
Congress must also wrestle with the estate tax, which lapsed last year but will automatically be reinstated effectively at a 55 percent rate on Jan. 1 for estates larger than $1 million. Lawmakers must also deal with an array of other provisions, including tax rates on dividends and capital gains, and the Alternative Minimum Tax, which has been adjusted annually to prevent millions of middle-class families from paying higher tax bills. The child tax credit would also be reduced.
There are many permutations of permanent or short-term extensions of various provisions.
Negotiations are expected to start in the Senate, where it is hardest for Democrats to advance legislation because of Republican filibusters. But some Democrats say a fallback plan would be to have their larger majority in the House approve a continuation of the lower rates just for the middle class right before the election, almost daring Republicans to oppose them.
In that case, Democrats say, Republicans who opposed the bill would be blocking a tax cut for more than 95 percent of Americans to defend tax cuts for a relatively few wealthy households. Republicans are readying an arsenal of economic data to portray the Democrats as endangering the precarious recovery and harming small-business owners, some of whom are taxed at the top personal income tax rates.
In the weekly Republican radio address on Saturday, Representative Mike Pence of Indiana promised an all-out push to extend the tax cuts for everyone. ''House Republicans will oppose this tax increase with everything we've got,'' he said.
The issue is further complicated by the rising concern among voters about the federal deficit, which would be increased by roughly $1.5 trillion over 10 years just by continuing the tax breaks for the middle class. Many economists say the nation's debt load is already headed to risky levels.
A decision on the tax issue could come just as Mr. Obama's National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform reaches a Dec. 1 deadline to propose remedies for addressing the long-term debt problems. ''The big questions before us now are whether we should make some of these tax cuts permanent, and if so, which ones,'' Mr. Baucus said at a recent public hearing. ''But that's not the only challenge. There's another elephant in the room -- the budget deficit. And that elephant is growing.''
At Thursday's closed committee meeting, in a testy exchange described by several witnesses, Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, pushed for developing the bill openly in committee rather than having Democrats bring it straight to the floor.
In a statement, Mr. Hatch lambasted Democrats. ''They can talk about the wealthy all they want, but this is about stopping a job-killing tax hike on small businesses during tough economic times, '' he said.
But some lawmakers, including Mr. Wyden, say the deficit concerns and the attention on the debt commission could help forge a deal: a short-term continuation of the tax cuts for the middle class, and perhaps some new tax breaks for businesses, that would buy lawmakers time to undertake a broad overhaul of the tax code in the next Congress.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: President Bush's Tax Cuts
Where President Obama Stands (Sources: The Joint Committee on Taxation
 Tax Policy Center) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); DIVIDENDS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RON WYDEN (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



635 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Elizabeth Warren

 BODY:
President Obama should nominate Elizabeth Warren to head the new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, and not only because of her credentials.
Ms. Warren -- a bankruptcy expert at Harvard Law School, an Oklahoma native whose father was bilked of his savings by a business partner -- developed the idea for the bureau in a 2007 article. Since then, as head of the panel that monitors the bank bailouts, she has become one of the nation's most prominent consumer advocates. 
There are other candidates, of course. What Mr. Obama needs to recognize is that this particular job, at this particular time, is about more than competence. As the reform bill went through Congress, the banks were unrelenting in trying to kill or weaken the bureau. Having failed, they want influence in selecting its director.
Meanwhile, polls have shown public mistrust or misunderstanding of the administration's economic policies. Mr. Obama's choice to head the bureau must demonstrate that he cares more about ordinary Americans than about Wall Street, that he understands that the public interest differs -- sometimes sharply -- from the interests of big banks. He needs someone the banks do not want, and that someone is Ms. Warren.
Bank lobbyists say a regulator like Ms. Warren would overreact in protecting consumers from abusive loans, constraining needed credit. That is unfounded. In her academic work and in the 2007 article introducing the idea of the bureau, Ms. Warren has shown that she understands the power of credit to do good.
But she also knows credit can wreak havoc. In 2007, she wrote: ''For a growing number of families who are steered into over-priced credit products, risky subprime mortgages, and misleading insurance plans, trust in a creditor turns out to be costly. And for families who get tangled up with truly dangerous financial products, the result can be wiped-out savings, lost homes, higher costs for car insurance, denial of jobs, troubled marriages, bleak retirements, and broken lives.''
The banks don't oppose Ms. Warren because she doesn't get it. They oppose her because she does.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FAMILY (75%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (70%); LOBBYING (69%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (68%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (84%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



636 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; POLITICAL TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Still Too Hot to Touch

BYLINE: By MATT BAI

 BODY:
If Tom Wolfe had set out to write a ''Bonfire of the Vanities'' on modern Washington, a farce about lives and races colliding, he couldn't have done much better than to invent the unlikely story of Shirley Sherrod.
An African-American bureaucrat in the Georgia office of the Agriculture Department, Ms. Sherrod became an instant celebrity last week because of a speech she gave to a N.A.A.C.P. convention in March in which she explained the evolution of her attitudes on race. A conservative blogger triumphantly circulated an edited clip in which Ms. Sherrod seemed to suggest that she had declined to help a white farmer in need of aid. (She hadn't, to which the farmer attested.) From there, Ms. Sherrod was renounced by a jittery N.A.A.C.P., exploited by right-wing commentators, and fired and then unfired from her job, before at last receiving a conciliatory call from the president of the United States.
In many ways, Ms. Sherrod's ordeal followed a depressingly familiar pattern in American life, in which anyone who even tries to talk about race risks public outrage and humiliation. 
We might have hoped that the election of a black president would somehow make the subject less sensitive and volatile, in the way that John F. Kennedy's election seemed to allay the last, lingering tension between American Catholics and the country's Protestant establishment. But as the week's events made clear, Mr. Obama's presence alone isn't going to deliver us from a racial dialogue characterized by cable-TV conflagration -- and it may even complicate the conversation.
If Mr. Obama's campaign was about ''hope,'' then it was, in some part, the hope for a more nuanced kind of dialogue. A telling moment was in 2007 when then-Senator Joe Biden, in summarizing Mr. Obama's appeal as an African-American, condescendingly described him as ''clean'' and ''articulate.'' It was the kind of comment that at another time, with another black leader, might have led to Mr. Biden's undoing.
Instead, Mr. Obama shrugged the whole thing off, saying no apology was needed. The next year, he chose Mr. Biden as his running mate.
In this way, Mr. Obama seemed to signal a new paradigm for black-white discussion -- one in which a public figure could use language outside the defined limits of acceptability and expect to be judged in some larger context. In other words, the promise of Mr. Obama's candidacy wasn't a post-racial society where no one was going to notice the color of your skin; it was a society where you could talk about race -- no matter what color you were -- without automatically being called a racist.
And yet any hope that Mr. Obama's election might magically erase the tension of recent decades has faded, as the N.A.A.C.P. and the Tea Party traded accusations over race. Black leaders have discovered that you still can't raise legitimate questions about racism without being accused of ''playing the race card.'' And a large element of the Tea Party movement that is simply angered over government spending finds that in much of the public's mind, it is still linked to its most extreme, antebellum elements.
And then there is the case of Ms. Sherrod, which seemed to bring together all the familiar elements of racial dysfunction in the society: bigotry and hypersensitivity, gross distortions and moralizing.
In some ways, Mr. Obama's election seems to have further confused the conversation. Some white conservatives may be in no mood to feel contrite about the nation's racial legacy now that a black man is sitting in the Oval Office. Civil rights groups, meanwhile, are struggling with the question of how to fight racism in a nation led by a president with an African last name.
Al Sharpton, who considers himself a black leader of Mr. Obama's generation, has made the case that many of his older colleagues are preoccupied with protesters in the Tea Party and not focused enough on the opportunities that come with governing. ''Some people are just used to fighting the power, rather than using the power to win,'' Mr. Sharpton said in an interview. ''You don't get control of the White House and two governors and the Justice Department, and then start arguing with people carrying signs.''
Why haven't we moved beyond the old, stultifying debate in the age of Obama?
One reason may be that Mr. Obama himself tries to avoid discoursing on the issue, in the way that Bill Clinton relished. The president is mired in a miserable economy that is endangering his party's hold on power; White House aides don't want him to appear distracted by a debate that may seem superfluous to many Americans. And to those aides, perhaps, Mr. Obama's appeal among white voters as a biracial politician has been helped by the fact that he doesn't talk much about it.
Before he entered political life, of course, Mr. Obama wrote expansively about his racial identity in a memoir. As a candidate for president, beset by controversy over the race-infused comments of his pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah Wright, Mr. Obama delivered a less personal but deeply thoughtful speech about the racial grudges and suppositions that permeated the two cultures, white and black, into which he was born.
As president, however, Mr. Obama's instinct, much to the irritation of older black leaders, has been to avoid any lengthy discussion of racial identity or animus. (It was Mr. Biden, and not the president, who spoke for both men when he said recently that they did not consider the Tea Party movement to be grounded in racism.)
President Obama did comment tartly on the arrest of his friend Professor Henry Louis Gates Jr. and then held the famous ''beer summit'' in the Rose Garden. Inside the White House, however, Mr. Obama's foray into that debate, while trying to focus public attention on health care reform, was considered a calamitous mistake.
Perhaps the president's reluctance reflects the particular perils faced by any president who represents an American minority -- the reasonable fear that he will be perceived, however unfairly, as chauvinist or parochial.
The historian Robert Dallek, a biographer of John F. Kennedy, posits that whatever effect Mr. Kennedy might have had on American attitudes about Catholicism was cemented not by his election in 1960, but by the Cuban missile crisis of 1962. It wasn't until that moment, Mr. Dallek says, when Mr. Kennedy proved that he could be relied on to protect the national interest as a whole -- a judgment that extended, perhaps, to American Catholics generally.
Looked at this way, perhaps Mr. Obama is not just a president in the thrall of economic crisis, but a black leader in search of his defining moment, as well. The conflagrations continue, while we wait.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Talked Out: Shirley Sherrod, an Agriculture Department official, was fired for comments on race taken out of context and quickly unfired. (PHOTOGRAPH BY N.A.A.C.P., VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (WK4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAULA SCHER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%); RELIGION (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); JOE BIDEN (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



637 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Mad Men City: The Stories Behind the Stories: To Be an Opera Extra

BYLINE: By EMILY S. RUEB

 BODY:
Three decades after the Supreme Court ruled that immigration violations cannot be used as a basis to deny children equal access to a public school education, one in five school districts in New York State is routinely requiring a child's immigration papers as a prerequisite to enrollment, or asking parents for information that only lawful immigrants can provide. 
The New York Civil Liberties Union, which culled a list of 139 such districts from hundreds of registration forms and instructions posted online, has not found any children turned away for lack of immigration paperwork. But it warned in a letter to the state's education commissioner on Wednesday that the requirements listed by many registrars, however free of discriminatory intent, ''will inevitably discourage families from enrolling in school for fear that they would be reported to federal immigration authorities.'' [NYT]
Government & Politics
A House investigative panel has found ''substantial reason to believe'' that Representative Charles B. Rangel violated a range of ethics rules. The details of the violations have not been disclosed, but the finding means that Mr. Rangel, a Harlem Democrat, must face a public trial before the House ethics committee. [NYT] (Also see the Daily News and The New York Post.)
Gov. David A. Paterson may curtail summer vacation for state legislators by ordering them back to Albany as early as next week to complete work on the budget. [Daily News]
Crime & Public Safety
The Bronx district attorney's office expects to meet soon with Sherr-una Booker, who says she was the victim of a domestic assault last October by a top aide to Governor Paterson, a meeting that could be a prelude to a formal investigation. [NYT]
The authorities investigating a fire on Staten Island found evidence that a boy, 14, slashed his two sisters, started the fire and then cut his own throat. [NYT] (See also The Daily News and The New York Post.)
A rigging contractor was acquitted on Thursday of all charges in connection with the collapse of a giant crane in Manhattan two years ago that killed seven people and revealed shoddy and illegal inspection practices in the city's Department of Buildings. [NYT]
Housing & Economy
New York City is gradually recovering from a deep but surprisingly short recession that ended in November, but its manufacturing industries are still not adding jobs. [NYT]
Transportation
Construction on the long-delayed Midtown West train station to be named after Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan will begin in October, the state said Thursday. [NY Post]
People & Neighborhoods
There are many ways to measure the cumulative, quantifiable effects of 90-degree day after 90-degree day in New York. [NYT]
The board of a Roman Catholic Church on Staten Island voted not to sell a vacant convent to a Muslim organization that planned to use it as a mosque. [NYT]
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); ETHICS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ACQUITTAL (73%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (69%); FIRES (69%); CITY LIFE (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (64%); RELIGION (61%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (85%)

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (67%); DAVID PATERSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



638 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Facebook Is to the Power Company as ...

BYLINE: By JOSHUA BRUSTEIN

 BODY:
It was a typically vexing week for Facebook. On the one hand, the social-networking service signed up its 500 millionth active user. On the other hand, it was found to be one of the least popular private-sector companies in the United States by the American Customer Satisfaction Index. Apparently, Americans were more satisfied filing their taxes online than they were posting updates on their Facebook page.
It is a continuing contradiction: Facebook is widely criticized for shifting its terms of service and for disclosing private information -- and yet millions of people start accounts each month. 
Analysts always grasp for analogies to explain Facebook's tortured relationship with its users. Facebook has been called the sterile suburbs to the gritty urban Internet; it is a ''walled garden'' in the organic messiness of the Web; it is Russia under Vladimir Putin; it is (and this one stings in tech circles) today's AOL.
But perhaps the most telling metaphor compares Facebook to the other companies lurking at the bottom of the American Customer Satisfaction Index: cable companies, wireless telephone service providers. Utilities. Here are services everyone uses, no matter how much people dislike the companies that provide them.
Danah Boyd, a social media researcher at Microsoft and a fellow at Harvard University's Berkman Center for Internet and Society, argues that Facebook fits that mold.
On her blog in May, she posted:
''I hate all of the utilities of my life. Venomous hatred. And because they're monopolies, they feel no need to make me appreciate them. Cuz they know that I'm not going to give up water, power, sewage, or the Internet out of spite. Nor will most people give up Facebook, regardless of how much they grow to hate them.''
Dr. Boyd argues that even Facebook sees itself this way, describing itself as ''a social utility that helps people communicate more efficiently with their friends, family and coworkers.'' The company's goal, Dr. Boyd says, is to become part of the infrastructure of the Internet.
Utilities are generally subject to added levels government regulation because of their fundamental importance and tendency toward monopoly, so calling a company a utility comes with an uncomfortable implication.
Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's chief executive, was asked last week whether the company should be regulated, since he likened the company to an electric utility. He rejected the comparison.
''We're here to build something useful,'' he said. ''Something that's cool can fade. But something that's useful won't. That's what I meant by utility.''
Is Facebook important enough to be considered a utility? And is there no real alternative?
Facebook is clearly not as vital as the electric grid. But many technologies now seen as essential were once dismissed as mere frivolity.
''At one time we could have had this conversation about the phone, and it would have sounded just as crazy,'' said Christian Sandvig, an associate professor of communications at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
There is also debate about how firm a grip Facebook has on the market.
Some experts argue that Facebook has grown so large that it is nearly impossible for a viable alternative to emerge, despite the presence of other social networks. Facebook gains data from each additional participant, growing more useful as it expands. This makes it progressively harder for users to leave, an economic principle known as lock-in.
Giving users greater control over their own data would help offset this tendency, said Dr. Sandvig. Users could then take their personal information and social connections to competing sites, much in the way that cellphone users switch carriers without changing their phone numbers. Companies would be encouraged to offer alternatives -- stronger privacy settings or ad-free sites with paid subscriptions.
But it is unclear how this would work. Even if social networking companies agreed to common standards that allowed a free flow of data -- or were forced to accept such standards -- there is no clear line between a person's own data and the data of the people in her networks. What right does someone have to her friends' data?
There could also be unintended consequences. Treating a company like a utility, for instance, can help to lock in its dominance and discourage innovation.
With this in mind, Cindy Cohn, the legal director of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, says that no one has developed the vocabulary needed to address social networking.
''I worry that we'll end up with solutions that are familiar but not correct if we start from the wrong metaphor,'' she said. ''And I'm not sure there is a good metaphor for Facebook.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (87%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); ELECTRONIC GOVERNMENT (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (76%); TAX PREPARATION SOFTWARE (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (72%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (57%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



639 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Creativity Is Needed To Fill Vacant Stores

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEBER. 
Jonathan Weber is the editor in chief of The Bay Citizen. jweber@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Union Square, in the heart of downtown San Francisco, is just the kind of retail shopping district that should be resisting the recession pretty well. It's full of hotels and the free-spending tourists and business travelers who occupy them; it's adjacent to the downtown high-rise district and the many thousands of people who work there. It even has a big parking garage and good transit connections.
Yet a walk around the neighborhood provides a disconcerting barometer for the challenges facing the regional economy. The big brands are all still here -- from Macy's and Nike and Banana Republic to Cartier and Armani -- but the streets are pocked with vacant storefronts, many of them in beautiful, high-quality buildings. 
The vacancy rate for retail locations in Union Square was 8 percent in the first quarter. Citywide, tax collection figures show that the free fall in retail sales that hit in late 2008 has eased, but not ended.
Optimists in the real estate business say it's just a cycle, though a particularly harsh one, with a comeback hitting stride this year and next. But national trends suggest a deeper structural shift may be at play: a long-term decline in consumer spending as a percentage of overall economic activity, a continued rise in Internet retailing and a baby-boom generation that is moving into smaller houses and needing less stuff.
If so, San Francisco may need to revisit its thinking about street-level commerce.
Already, some neighborhoods are relaxing policies that put strict caps on the number of restaurants. In this foodie haven, the restaurant industry has suffered much less than general retail, with restaurant tax receipts actually rising in the first quarter compared with a year ago.
There has also been more flexibility in allowing chain stores. City regulations dictate that any retailer with more than 11 stores that wants to open in specified districts has to seek a special permit, and those permits are now being granted more readily.
In the Castro district, a ''business attraction program'' has brought together merchants, landlords and community development agencies in a successful effort to keep stores full. Herb Cohn, a leader of the Castro's merchant association, points to several ''pop-up'' stores -- temporary locations that have become one of the hotter trends in retailing -- that have given life to big empty spaces while long-term deals are sought.
This being San Francisco, there are also some calls for a different approach. In North Beach, another busy shopping district with a retail vacancy rate of more than 8 percent, one gallery owner has called for fining landlords with long-term vacancies.
''That's a new one,'' laughed Rhonda Diaz Caldewey, director of the urban retail group at Terranomics, a local property services firm. ''God bless San Francisco.''
In fact, this idea and several other more-developed tax proposals that may be on the ballot this fall are considered unlikely to go anywhere, in part because of their potential impact on small businesses.
Instead, Ms. Caldewey stresses the need for creative business concepts, pointing to new formats in which bars and restaurants are joined with bowling alleys or movie theaters. One general trend, she said, is toward smaller-format stores emphasizing authenticity and earthiness.
Ted Egan, chief economist in the city's Office of Economic Analysis, noted that retailing was in much better shape in San Francisco than in the many suburban and ex-urban communities with malls surrounded by half-built, foreclosure-ridden housing developments.
''I don't think we are a retail mistake,'' Mr. Egan said.
Indeed, long-term investment is still happening. Earlier this month, the city approved plans for CityPlace, a proposed mall in the long-troubled mid-Market business district. Ben Lazzareschi, vice president for retail services at CB Richard Ellis, said that some suburban-oriented chains were now able to afford space in the city, where rents have declined 5 percent to 8 percent over the past few years. Just last week, Target unveiled plans for two San Francisco stores.
It will take a general economic recovery, and especially a rebound in employment, to fill all the empty storefronts. But in the meantime, flexibility and creativity need to be the watchwords -- for retailers, landlords and public officials alike.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The free fall in retail sales tax receipts in San Francisco has eased, but downtown still has some empty storefronts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); TRENDS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (72%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



640 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; TBR; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Inside The List

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SCHUESSLER

 BODY:
OFFSIDE: The sun has barely set on the World Cup, and the National Football League is already taking over the pitch. The New Orleans Saints quarterback Drew Brees's inspirational ''Coming Back Stronger: Unleashing the Hidden Power of Adversity,'' enters at No. 3 (the square root of his jersey number!) on the hardcover nonfiction list, while his coach, Sean Payton, drops to No. 9 with ''Home Team.'' Meanwhile, Kendra Wilkinson -- the former live-in playmate of Hugh Hefner and current wife of the Philadelphia Eagles wide receiver Hank Baskett -- sticks to baseball metaphors in ''Sliding Into Home,'' new at No. 4. At least let's hope that's a baseball metaphor. 
WORKING GIRL:''Fifth Avenue, 5 A.M.,'' Sam Wasson's account of the making of ''Breakfast at Tiffany's,'' hits the hardcover nonfiction list at No. 13. Truman Capote's novella, published in 1958 (together with three short stories), spent 10 weeks on the fiction list, despite getting mixed reviews. Writing in the Book Review, the novelist and critic William Goyen called Capote ''the last of the old-fashioned Valentine makers,'' which wasn't totally a compliment, and criticized the showy melodrama that engulfs Holly Golightly. ''Mr. Capote's characteristic resorting to almost vaudevillian devices weakens his originally serious conception of his character, thins it down and so, in mid-reading, forces the reader to a dimmer view of her,'' Goyen wrote. ''This kind of genial philandering runs through all these stories: a tendency to overglaze situations, to overdress characters -- not stylistically so much as conceptionally -- a tendency to fool with characters on the author's terms of whimsy, not on the characters'. Actually, Mr. Capote indulges in overacting more than overwriting. In the end, one imagines this flaw to be more . . . a matter of showmanship than of writing craft, one of a lack of full imaginative control.''
UNAPOLOGETIC: ''Undead and Unfinished,'' the ninth installment in MaryJanice Davidson's chick-lit series featuring a shoe-obsessed vampire, claws its way to No. 15 on the hardcover fiction list this week. Davidson's titles are relentlessly negative -- ''Undead and Unwed,'' ''Undead and Unemployed,'' ''Undead and Unappreciated,'' ''Undead and Unreturnable'' -- but the author herself, who lives in Minnesota, comes off as unflappably undepressed, not to mention just as feisty and foul-mouthed as her characters. A few years ago, Davidson had some choice words in response to an interviewer's question about the stigma attached to romance novels: ''Look, you'll never ever see a man apologize for what he's reading. Ever! He could be reading, oh, I dunno, yet another book in the Executioner series'' -- the hardware-heavy pulp series that has sold some 200 million copies worldwide since 1969 -- ''and he's certainly not going to apologize to the gal sitting next to him in the subway. And why the hell should he? He's reading a book, he's not hurting anybody. So why do we feel like we have to explain ourselves if a panting, heaving, naked-to-the-waist Fabio is on the book cover?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); WRITERS (89%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (76%); LITERATURE (76%); LITERARY CRITICISM (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (84%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); PHILADELPHIA EAGLES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (57%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (57%); MINNESOTA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



641 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: The Desert War

 BODY:
Robert F. Worth suggests that U.S. policy may be inadequate in preventing Yemen from becoming ''the next Afghanistan,'' but embedded in his article is a way out: support of ''secular'' and ''godless'' and, yes, ''socialist'' Yemenis who actually were dominant in Aden as late as the 1980s. Those who raise alarms about ''Islamo-fascism'' should be comforted by such a policy, as it only mimics U.S. policy on the eastern front from 1941 to 1945. Unfortunately, the current U.S. administration, spooked by the false allegation that it is ''socialist,'' will be reluctant to take this path; but it may be the only way out. GERALD HORNE Professor of History, University of Houston, Houston 
Worth's excellent, analytical, researched and on-the-spot report on Yemen (with beautiful photos) is disturbing, to put it mildly. The sign ''Discover Islam'' at the viewing point above Shibam, where four South Korean tourists were killed in 2009, says it all. We are all discovering Islam, all the time, everywhere; and that discovery is indeed scary. The report is a sure warning, if any warning was needed. Kudos to Worth for going deep into the subject and taking immense risks to discover what's going on in Yemen. Saudi Arabia's money and Wahhabism have combined to create more complications and chaos that will not end in the foreseeable future. Tribal loyalties and deep but misguided faith in religious leaders who instigate wars against the infidels, compounded with an authoritarian ruler thriving on corruption, cruelty and divide-and-rule policy, all point to Yemen as another Afghanistan in the making. Yemen is indeed a fertile ground for Al Qaeda of various colors and hues -- all committed to jihad against the West and for establishing Shariah law everywhere. ''Hate America'' is spreading throughout the Islamic world. This is despite American blood and money flowing to sustain the economies of several Islamic countries, protecting them from more chaos and attempting to build a democratic system that will follow the rule of law. Alas, that's not going to happen unless the connection between jihad and jannat (heaven), backed by money and mullahs and augmented by deep hatred for the unbelievers, is not effectively and decisively destroyed for good. YATINDRA BHATNAGAR Katy, Tex.
It's pretty clear that Yemen's president, Ali Abdullah Saleh, is willing to burn the country to ashes along with all of its inhabitants as long as his hunger for power is satisfied. He talks of eradicating Al Qaeda yet shows no real effort of doing so, because he knows the only way he's keeping his seat is to ensure chaos rules Yemen right beside him and keeping his pockets full as long as aid money from the West keeps rolling in. The Yemenis desperately need someone to stand up for them against this madman's compulsive lying, deceiving and corrupt state of mind. And I don't think that it's in our interest that Al Qaeda seems to be the only one speaking up, regardless of its evil intentions. FOAD S. MUTHANA Bronx
There are parts of Worth's article on Al Qaeda in Yemen that are interesting, while others about the society are so gratuitously offensive as to be appalling. The image of Yemenis out of their minds chewing khat and circling aimlessly in their taxis (they were probably looking desperately for customers) is perhaps the most egregiously awful example. But then this article joins a chorus of negative, one might say paranoid, reporting about Yemen that is locked into a narrative with the same tired cliches. How many times do we have to be told that Hadramawt is the ancestral land of Osama bin Laden (which usually comes as a surprise to Yemenis)? There is no excuse for this kind of caricature, flattened of all complexity and nuance, when Yemen has been thoroughly researched by anthropologists and political scientists for decades. As far as I could tell, however, these did not inform Worth's thinking about the people of Yemen. STEVEN C. CATON Professor of Contemporary Arab Studies Harvard University Cambridge, Mass.
The photographs accompanying the article on Yemen were simply magnificent. Simon Norfolk is an artist; somehow he caught the age-old darkness, light and mystery that those of us in the West see only in movies and find only in ancient tales. Let's celebrate such intrepid photographers, who bring us their experiences and artistry. MARJORIE LEWIS Canaan, N.Y.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SIMON NORFOLK/INSTITUTE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); RELIGION (89%); TERRORISM (87%); AL-QAEDA (72%); CORRUPTION (69%); HISTORY (68%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%) YEMEN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



642 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Are More Regulations the Solution, or the Problem?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The Technocracy Boom,'' by David Brooks (column, July 20):
Let's see if I've got this right. We've just seen a period during the Bush presidency in which we abandoned nearly seven decades of progressive legislation that contributed to the emergence of a large middle class here at home and the rise of the United States as a world leader economically, politically and socially. 
And what we got in return was the biggest economic crisis since the Great Depression, a contraction of the middle class and a widening of the gap between the richest and everyone else.
Now ''a large class of educated professionals, who have been trained to do technocratic analysis,'' determined to learn from the mistakes of the survival-of-the-fittest, market-based economics era, is applying its expertise in an attempt to prevent a repeat performance of our economic and social disaster. And David Brooks suggests that we may rue the day this progressive era began.
The technocrats may not get everything right, but chances are they'll get a lot of it right. And, given our recent experience, I, for one, am willing to give them the chance to make things better.
Jay N. Feldman Port Washington, N.Y., July 20, 2010
To the Editor:
The columns by Bob Herbert and David Brooks on July 20 showed opposite reactions to problems arising from the complex systems we have devised.
Mr. Herbert (''We're Not Ready'') sees nuclear power, with its threat of a huge environmental catastrophe, as needing ever more regulation. Mr. Brooks (''The Technocracy Boom'') deplores the ever-more-regulation response to the increasing complexity of our financial system.
The solutions that humans use to solve their problems generally add layers of complexity that demand more solutions that grow into more complexity -- but not ad infinitum.
As Joseph Tainter writes in his thought-provoking book ''The Collapse of Complex Societies,'' each new effort brings diminishing returns, until the whole rigmarole collapses.
John R. Bermingham Denver, July 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



643 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: NONFICTION: Sunday, July 25th 2010

 BODY:
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Saturday, July 10th 2010, at many thousands of venues where a wide range of general interest books are sold nationwide. These include hundreds of independent book retailers (statistically weighted to represent all such outlets); national, regional and local chains; online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket, discount and department stores; and newsstands. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book&#8217;s sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Among those categories not actively tracked are: perennial sellers; required classroom reading; text, reference and test preparation guides; journals and workbooks; calorie counters; shopping guides; comics; and crossword puzzles. Expanded rankings are available on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 
WeeksThisOnWeekListPAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: NONFICTION1179EAT, PRAY, LOVE, by Elizabeth Gilbert. ($15 and $16 Penguin) A writer&#8217;s yearlong journey in search of self takes her to Italy, India and Indonesia.2180THREE CUPS OF TEA, by Greg Mortenson and David Oliver Relin. ($16 Penguin) A former climber builds schools in villages in Pakistan and Afghanistan.389MY HORIZONTAL LIFE, by Chelsea Handler. ($14.95 Bloomsbury) A memoir of one-night stands.428ARE YOU THERE, VODKA? IT&#39;S ME, CHELSEA, by Chelsea Handler. ($16 Simon Spotlight Entertainment) Humorous personal essays from the comedian.5175THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. ($15 Scribner) The author recalls a bizarre childhood during which she was constantly on the move.613MENNONITE IN A LITTLE BLACK DRESS, by Rhoda Janzen. ($14 Holt) Life&#8217;s detours send Janzen back to the Mennonite home where she was raised.72RESILIENCE, by Elizabeth Edwards. ($15 Broadway) The estranged wife of former Senator John Edwards recounts how she has dealt with life&#8217;s challenges.846FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. ($15.99 Harper Perennial) A scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to nearly everything.9*301THE TIPPING POINT, by Malcolm Gladwell. ($15.99 Back Bay/Little, Brown) A study of social epidemics, otherwise known as fads.10142I HOPE THEY SERVE BEER IN HELL, by Tucker Max. ($15.95 Citadel/Kensington) Life as a self-absorbed, drunken womanizer.1134A LONG WAY GONE, by Ishmael Beah. ($12 Sarah Crichton/Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux) A former child soldier describes a killing spree and his return to humanity.12*9THE BLACK SWAN, by Nassim Nicholas Taleb. ($17 Random House) The hubris of predictions &#8212; and our perpetual surprise when the not-predicted happens.134ZEITOUN, by Dave Eggers. ($15.95 Vintage) The travails of a Syrian-American man and his family after Hurricane Katrina.142LIT, by Mary Karr. ($14.99 Harper Perennial) A poet&#8217;s memoir of motherhood, troubled marriage, alcoholism and depression; a sequel to &#34;The Liars&#8217; Club.&#34;156HALF THE SKY, by Nicholas D. Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn. ($15.95 Vintage) A case for viewing women&#8217;s equality as the &#34;paramount moral challenge&#34; of our era.16143BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. ($15.99 Back Bay/Little, Brown) Instinct in the workings of the mind.17*84SAME KIND OF DIFFERENT AS ME, by Ron Hall and Denver Moore with Lynn Vincent. ($14.99 Nelson) An unlikely friendship begins at a shelter in Texas.186PREDICTABLY IRRATIONAL, by Dan Ariely. ($15.99 Harper Perennial) Hidden forces shape our decisions.1911A PEOPLE&#8217;S HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES, by Howard Zinn. ($18.95 Harper Perennial) An account from the point of view of women, African-Americans and others who are often marginalized.20*6SHOP CLASS AS SOULCRAFT, by Matthew B. Crawford. ($15 Penguin) A philosopher on what manual labor can teach about the world and oneself.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); BOOK SALES (90%); WRITERS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); CHILDREN (71%); CHILDREN IN ARMED CONFLICT (69%); DRINKING PLACES (69%); BEER & ALE (60%)

PERSON: CHELSEA HANDLER (73%); JOHN EDWARDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (79%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (78%); AFGHANISTAN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2010



644 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: Laugh Lines

 BODY:
JIMMY FALLON
British Prime Minister David Cameron is visiting the U.S. and yesterday he and President Obama gave each other pieces of art. That really wasn't necessary, Britain. You've already given us a HUGE oil painting. 
Sports Illustrated just reported that Tiger Woods made $90 million over the last year. Or as Elin Nordegren calls it, $45 million.
JAY LENO
AT&T announced today that they are working on a new app for the iPhone. This one will allow you to make calls.
Have you seen this new reality show ''White House Apprentice''? It's kind of like the other ''Apprentice'' but when the boss says ''You're fired'' he offers you your job back a day later.
Lindsay Lohan went to jail today. But sadly her parents are still on the loose.
DAVID LETTERMAN
So Jeb Bush is running for president. I don't know about the rest of the country, but thank God, ladies and gentlemen, the comedy recession is over.

GRAPHIC: CARTOONS: Chan Lowe: South Florida Sun Sentinel, Tribune Media Services
Tony Auth: The Philadelphia Inquirer, Universal Press Syndicate
Dana Summers: Orlando Sentinel, Tribune Media Services
 Tom Toles: The Washington Post, Universal Press Syndicate 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); PAINTING (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%)

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (78%); DAVID CAMERON (73%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); TIGER WOODS (56%); JAY LENO (55%); LINDSAY LOHAN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



645 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Still Doesn't Have a Sheriff

BYLINE: By RICHARD C. SAUER. 
Richard C. Sauer, a former administrator in the Securities and Exchange Commission's enforcement division, is the author of ''Selling America Short: The S.E.C. and Market Contrarians in the Age of Absurdity.''

 BODY:
THE current range of opinion on the Securities and Exchange Commission's $550 million settlement in the Goldman Sachs fraud suit lines up closely with that evoked by previous S.E.C. settlements with corporate defendants. Some Americans are outraged that Goldman ''got off easy,'' while others feel the deal could be a model for gaining some measure of justice against those responsible for Wall Street's meltdown.
Both sides are wrong: at best, such agreements reflect case-specific facts and circumstances; at worst, they are nearly arbitrary. While the government often claims such high-profile deals are of historic significance, they typically have little effect on future cases and do nothing to resolve long-standing conflicts as to how the law should treat misconduct by public companies. 
The question of how best to discipline what Chief Justice John Marshall in 1819 called ''an artificial being, invisible, intangible and existing only in contemplation of law'' is indeed vexing. A corporation can't be put in jail, its fines are ultimately paid by investors not responsible for the misconduct, and a court order forbidding future violations merely shelves the issue until the next occurrence.
In 19th-century America, permissive incorporation laws and rapid economic development led to the rise of the large corporation, which, in turn, led to a century of expanding federal regulation. Most measures regulated certain forms of conduct and prohibited others, specifying fines for failure to comply. There was little consideration given to questions of when, as a matter of practical legal policy, an artificial entity should be treated as if it were a person.
The S.E.C. wasn't forced to grapple with the issue until 1990, when Congress greatly expanded its power to seek financial penalties from corporate violators. (Before then, companies could shrug off civil orders as a passing embarrassment.)
Initially, however, the agency made infrequent use of this new authority. Its staff saw fining public companies as harmful to shareholders, the very people the S.E.C. was created to protect. It also feared that managers would tap their corporate treasuries to buy their way out of individual liability.
But the public, the press and Congress didn't accept any abstract arguments that corporations shouldn't pay fines for securities law violations, as they did for, say, antitrust violations. Eventually heeding these views, the S.E.C. began to seek money penalties from public companies more frequently, in ever-increasing amounts. As with the recent Goldman settlement, record penalties were presented by S.E.C. officials as illustrating the agency's resolve to enforce securities laws.
Objections that such settlements only hurt shareholders were partly overcome with the Sarbanes-Oxley act of 2002, which included a provision authorizing the S.E.C. to give civil penalties it collected to injured investors rather than the Treasury. But doing so can put the agency in the same business as class-action lawyers: taking money from current shareholders for the benefit of previous investors, who are deemed somehow more worthy.
In 2006, however, the pro-business tenor of the S.E.C. under President George W. Bush found expression in written guidelines widely seen as intended to provide a principled basis for limiting fines paid by public companies. They emphasized such mitigating factors as a corporate defendant's cooperation with investigators. The commissioners, who have to approve all deals in the end, also now insisted that staff consult them before soliciting settlement offers, apparently to avoid putting themselves in the potentially embarrassing position of rejecting penalties negotiated by the staff. (This policy has now been discarded -- wisely in my view.)
The S.E.C. under its current chairwoman, Mary Schapiro, is clearly raising the ceiling on the money penalties it will seek from (at least) high-profile corporate wrongdoers. Thus investors will find there is yet another way that management misconduct can cost them. This is defensible if it achieves compelling law-enforcement objectives. But that is where things get muddy.
When, exactly, does fining a public company deter potential future violators, bring attention to the significance of particular forms of misconduct, signal shareholders to throw the (management) bums out, or readjust appropriately the interests of current and former shareholders? And when, on the other hand, does it merely provide a platform for agency self-congratulation?
Do not look to the Goldman settlement for guidance. It concludes a case in which the S.E.C. injected itself into a transaction between large financial entities (Goldman and the banks and funds that bought the subprime-mortgage vehicles it peddled) quite capable of defending their own legal interests. This was an unexplained departure from previous practice. The amount of the money penalty bears no relation to the benefits derived by Goldman from its alleged misconduct (reported as $15 million).
More important, the settlement brings the commission no closer to developing a clear standard when it comes to seeking redress for the behavior that led to the economic disaster. Its settlements with public companies will probably be much like settlements in private litigation, an ad hoc process that defies standardization and sometimes logic. The quality of the evidence, the perceived culpability of the wrongdoer and the parties' negotiating prowess and appetite for complex litigation will all go into the mix, with unpredictable results.
As for the half-billion paid by Goldman -- well, given the unfortunate vagueness of the system, it's probably about as good a number as any.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); MISCONDUCT (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (78%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010



646 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: Industries Find Surging Profits In Deeper Cuts

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
By most measures, Harley-Davidson has been having a rough ride.
Motorcycle sales are falling in 2010, as they have for each of the last three years. The company does not expect a turnaround anytime soon.
But despite that drought, Harley's profits are rising -- soaring, in fact. Last week, Harley reported a $71 million profit in the second quarter, more than triple what it earned a year ago.
This seeming contradiction -- falling sales and rising profits -- is one reason the mood on Wall Street is so much more buoyant than in households, where pessimism runs deep and joblessness shows few signs of easing.
Many companies are focusing on cost-cutting to keep profits growing, but the benefits are mostly going to shareholders instead of the broader economy, as management conserves cash rather than bolstering hiring and production. Harley, for example, has announced plans to cut 1,400 to 1,600 more jobs by the end of next year. That is on top of 2,000 job cuts last year -- more than a fifth of its work force. 
As companies this month report earnings for the second quarter, news of healthy profits has helped the stock market -- the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is up 7 percent for July -- but the source of those gains raises deep questions about the sustainability of the growth, as well as the fate of more than 14 million unemployed workers hoping to rejoin the work force as the economy recovers.
''Because of high unemployment, management is using its leverage to get more hours out of workers,'' said Robert C. Pozen, a senior lecturer at Harvard Business School and the former president of Fidelity Investments. ''What's worrisome is that American business has gotten used to being a lot leaner, and it could take a while before they start hiring again.''
And some of those businesses, including Harley-Davidson, are preparing for a future where they can prosper even if sales do not recover. Harley's goal is to permanently be in a position to generate strong profits on a lower revenue base.
In some ways, the ability to raise profits in the face of declining sales is a triumph of productivity that makes the United States more globally competitive. The problem is that companies are not investing those earnings, instead letting cash pile up to levels not reached in nearly half a century.
''As long as corporations are reinvesting, the economy can grow,'' said Ethan Harris, chief economist at Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch. ''But if they're taking those profits and saving them, rather than buying new equipment, it hurts overall growth. The longer this goes on, the more you worry about income being diverted to a sector that's not spending.''
''There's no question that there is an income shift going on in the economy,'' Mr. Harris added. ''Companies are squeezing their labor costs to build profits.''
The trend is hardly limited to Harley. Giants like General Electric and JPMorgan Chase, as well as smaller companies like Hasbro, the toymaker, all improved their bottom lines despite slowing sales in the second quarter. Among the S.& P. 500 companies that have reported second-quarter results, more than one in 10 had higher profits on lower sales, nearly twice the number in a typical quarter before the recession, according to Thomson Reuters.
''Whole industries are operating at new levels of profitability,'' said David J. Kostin, chief United States equity strategist at Goldman Sachs. ''In the downturn, companies managed to maintain higher profit margins than ever before.''
Profit margins -- the percentage of revenue left over after expenses -- crumble in most recessions, as overall sales fall but fixed costs like infrastructure, commodities and rent remain the same. In 2002, during the recession that followed the bursting of the technology bubble in addition to the Sept. 11 attacks, margins sank to 4.7 percent. Although the most recent downturn was far more severe, profit margins bottomed out at 5.9 percent in 2009 and quickly rebounded. By next year, analysts expect margins to hit 8.9 percent, a record high.
The difference this time is that companies wrung more savings out of their work forces, said Neal Soss, chief economist for Credit Suisse in New York. In fact, while wages and salaries have barely budged from recession lows, profits have staged a vigorous recovery, jumping 40 percent between late 2008 and the first quarter of 2010.
Harley-Davidson's profit gain last quarter was helped by a turnaround in its financing unit, as well as more efficient production, but the company is still cutting.
Harley has warned union employees at its Milwaukee factory that it would move production elsewhere in the United States if they did not agree to more flexible work rules and tens of millions in cost-saving measures.
Even if sales do improve, a surge in hiring is unlikely.
''The last thing we're worried about is when are we going to have to add more capacity, because what we're really doing is reconfiguring our entire operational system for greater flexibility,'' Keith Wandell, the company's chief executive, said on a conference call with analysts last week.
Harley's evolution is part of longer-term shift in American manufacturing, said Rod Lache, an analyst with Deutsche Bank.
At Ford, revenue in its North American operations is down by $20 billion since 2005, but instead of a loss like it had that year, the unit is expected to earn more than $5 billion in 2010. In large part, that is because Ford has shrunk its North American work force by nearly 50 percent over the last five years.
''These companies have cracked the code of a successful industrial turnaround,'' Mr. Lache said. ''They're shrinking the business to a size that's defendable, and growing off that lower base.''
To be sure, sales are rising for many companies, albeit at a much slower pace than the increase in profits. Among the 175 companies in the S.& P. 500 that have reported earnings for the second quarter, revenues rose 6.9 percent on average while profits jumped 42.3 percent, according to Thomson Reuters.
Still, even at corporations where both the top and bottom lines are expanding, the focus remains on keeping profits high, not rebuilding work forces decimated by the recession.
When Alcoa reported a turnaround this month in profits and a 22 percent jump in revenue, its chief financial officer, Charles D. McLane Jr., assured investors that it was not eager to recall the 37,000 workers let go since late 2008. ''We have a tight focus on spending as market activity increases, operating more effectively and minimizing rehires where possible,'' he said. ''We're not only holding headcount levels, but are also driving restructuring this quarter that will result in further reductions.''
Michael E. Belwood, a spokesman for Alcoa, said more than 17,500 of the former workers were employed at units Alcoa has since sold, but added that the company ''had to be resized to match the realities of the recession.''
''We're keeping a close eye on costs because there is still uncertainty about the stability of this recovery,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Harley-Davidson showroom outside Chicago. Harley's sales are falling, but profits are strong. Many companies are preparing for a future where they can prosper even if sales do not recover. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES) (A3) CHARTS: Pay Lagging Behind Profits: Corporate profits had rebounded strongly even before the latest earnings reports, and are above where they were before the recession started. Meanwhile, employee compensation has been slow to recover, and corporations have been hoarding cash at levels not reached since the mid-1960s. (Source: Credit Suisse) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MOTORCYCLES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); LAYOFFS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%)

COMPANY: HARLEY-DAVIDSON INC (86%); FMR CORP (53%)

TICKER: HOG (NYSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (86%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (53%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010



647 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: States Hooked On Gambling For Revenue

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

 BODY:
From the beginning of our joy ride with legalized gambling, there was a worry that more gambling would mean more overextended suckers addicted to slots, poker tables, lotteries and roulette wheels.
Now we know it's true -- only the addicts are not necessarily day trippers on tour buses.
They are also states, like Connecticut, New Jersey and New York -- and most of their neighbors -- desperate for cash, averse to raising taxes and doubling down on the one business that seemed to be eternally growing until it wasn't. 
How else to explain a professed small-government conservative like Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey last week proposing a state takeover of the floundering Atlantic City gambling strip? Casino revenue there is down almost 30 percent from the same period in 2006.
Indeed, like the ball on a roulette wheel popping up and down before it finally lands, the casino story lines are hard to keep straight.
Maybe New York will finally build one at Aqueduct. Maybe the Shinnecock Tribe will build one at the Nassau County Coliseum, or maybe it will build one somewhere in Suffolk County. But in a glutted market, can Long Island and New York City support two new casinos, let alone one? Connecticut's two mega-casinos provided less revenue to the state last year than at any time in a decade. Out of nowhere a group calling itself the Connecticut Coalition for Gaming Jobs pops up to contest federal recognition of the Shinnecocks, for fairly obvious reasons. It's getting a little claustrophobic in here, isn't it?
''The New York metropolitan market is probably approaching saturation if it's not already there,'' said Robert B. Ward, deputy director of the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government in Albany. ''At some point you just end up with the shopping mall syndrome -- whoever has built most recently with the shiniest properties will get the customers and the other properties will deteriorate, and no one will know what to do with them.''
According to a report in September by Mr. Ward and Lucy Dadayan of the Rockefeller Institute, state and local gambling revenues from gambling emporiums and lotteries declined nationally by 2.6 percent in 2009, the first decline in three decades. State and local revenues from commercial casinos (excluding Indian ones) in the 2009 fiscal year declined by 8.5 percent.
All three states in the New York metropolitan area get a larger percentage of their state-generated general revenue (excluding federal sources) from gambling than the national average. In the fiscal year 2008 it was 4 percent in Connecticut, 3.3 percent in New Jersey and 3.1 percent in New York, compared with 2.3 percent nationally. They are not huge percentages, but they are big enough to mean the difference between a budget that is balanced and one that is not. And that only includes direct state receipts, not jobs, revenues from shops and other economic benefits.
SO even with revenues declining, at least 25 states have contemplated expanding gambling over the past year. Mr. Christie's plan is the latest sign of how much the states have invested.
''The states aren't the ones who are going to go into bankruptcy,'' said Michael Diamond, vice president for research at Spectrum Gaming Group, which studies the casino industry. ''They might see their revenue stream come down, but they're going to encourage as much activity as someone is willing to invest in.''
Like those dorky poker players behind wraparound shades on ESPN, all three states have a distinctive game to play. Mr. Christie's proposal is essentially going all in on Atlantic City. It may be a somewhat dinged-up brand, but he's betting it's one that's too big to fail, and, with its Boardwalk and seashore, it is the only gambling center in the region that can lure gamblers and families.
Connecticut is like the aging champ, trying to keep that poker face but twitching as revenues fall even before the possible addition of casinos in Massachusetts and New York, which would mean more of a pinch.
New York, which is still exporting gamblers to New Jersey and Connecticut, has the biggest pile of chips to bet if it figures out where to put them down. So glut or not, New York is still looking to add capacity, which means either cannibalizing its neighbors' business or luring new suckers into the game. It is not an encouraging picture, but as they say at the casinos and the state capitals, you can't win if you don't play.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (93%); POKER (90%); CASINOS (90%); BUDGETS (76%); CITIES (69%); RETAILERS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010



648 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: When Race Is the Issue, Misleading Coverage Sets Off an Uproar

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
In the last couple of days, Andrew Breitbart, a conservative Web site operator, has been called a liar, a provocateur, a propagandist -- and even a race-baiter. But he says he knows who the true race-baiters are: some Democratic activists.
It was one of Mr. Breitbart's Web sites, BigGovernment, that highlighted the heavily edited video clip of Shirley Sherrod, a black official at the Department of Agriculture, apparently saying that she had been biased against a white farmer she was supposed to help. Ms. Sherrod's full speech actually demonstrated the opposite, but do not expect Mr. Breitbart to be embarrassed.
He says there is an election-year strategy under way to ''falsely malign opponents of the Democratic party as racist'' and that he will continue to fight it.
''It's warfare out there,'' he said in an interview on Sunday. 
The ''warfare'' is happening partly in the conservative media, where Mr. Breitbart has shown an uncanny ability to play on the issue of race and have it amplified on news shows, talk shows and blogs. The Sherrod episode is hardly the first charge of reverse racism that has been raised by conservative media figures, nor the first that Mr. Breitbart has had a hand in.
But it is an open question whether conservative media outlets risk damage to their credibility when obscure or misleading stories are blown out of proportion and when what amounts to political opposition research is presented as news.
Jane Hall, a communication professor at American University and a former contributor to Fox News, said partisan media outlets ''look for something that will get an audience and that will whip up people in some kind of frenzy, warranted or not.''
Ms. Hall said what Ms. Sherrod had endured was ''classic propaganda.''
The drumbeat of racially charged stories has apparently affected the administration, which has said it wants to avoid making decisions in the churn of cable news. Ms. Sherrod said she had been told by an unnamed Agriculture Department official that she had to resign immediately because ''you're going to be on Glenn Beck tonight,'' one of Fox News Channel's biggest right-wing shows.
The incident has also renewed accusations of racism directed at Fox News, a unit of the News Corporation, which could conceivably affect Fox and its advertisers. The National Association of Black Journalists has faulted Fox for years for inaccurately portraying blacks. And Mr. Beck called Mr. Obama a racist last August, prompting an advertiser boycott that continues.
In the last month, Fox doggedly pursued an accusation of voter intimidation by a fringe hate group called the New Black Panthers on the day of the last presidential election. One news anchor, Megyn Kelly, devoted dozens of segments to the incident. (Ms. Kelly was even upbraided on the air by a Fox News contributor, Kirsten Powers, who accused her of doing the ''scary black man thing.''
Last fall, Fox's news programs gave heavy play to heavily edited tapes that appeared to show counselors at the liberal community organizing group Acorn giving advice to an ostensible pimp and his prostitute about evading taxes and setting up a brothel.
Fox's news programs covered the story extensively. Rush Limbaugh claimed at the time that other media entities were ''doing their best to cover it up by ignoring it.'' Over the weekend, a former Democratic National Committee chairman, Howard Dean, accused Fox of pushing ''a theme of black racism.''
''Continuing to cater to this theme of minority racism and stressing comments like this -- some of which are taken out of context -- does not help the country knit itself together,'' he said on Fox News Sunday.
Michael Clemente, the senior vice president for Fox News, said in a statement on Sunday, ''As we said this past week, some people, such as the failed candidate Dean, reflexively blame Fox for almost anything.''
Fox's newscasts did not cover the edited Sherrod video last Monday, nor did Mr. Beck, but the opinion host Bill O'Reilly did call on her to resign.
She resigned between the time Mr. O'Reilly taped his show and when that show was broadcast.
Mr. O'Reilly apologized two nights later, and another Fox News host, Shepard Smith, asked, ''What in the world has happened to our industry and the White House?''
Rich Lowry of The National Review wrote on the magazine's blog, The Corner, that Ms. Sherrod's ''saga over the last couple of days is a lesson in how the culture of offense often works in contemporary America -- chewing people up and spitting them out before they even have a chance to defend themselves.''
David Frum, a former fellow at the American Enterprise Institute who now edits FrumForum.com, said some conservatives argue that the ends justify the means in cases of faulty journalism.
''Many conservatives have worked themselves into such fear that Barack Obama is not only wasting our money but actually trying to overthrow the Constitution that those fears can justify almost anything,'' he said in an interview on Friday.
Scurrilous stories meant to taint the Obama administration regularly take root online before gaining traction on television and radio. Mr. Breitbart calls this the ''undermedia.''
''It's my business model to craft strategies to make sure that the mainstream media is forced to reckon with stories that it would love to ignore because it doesn't fit their narrative,'' he said.
Equal parts a culture warrior and businessman, Mr. Breitbart is the person who last fall released the Acorn tapes to Fox News.
The video of Ms. Sherrod, the agriculture official, emerged on BigGovernment early on July 19. Mr. Breitbart said that in featuring the video of Ms. Sherrod speaking at an N.A.A.C.P. event, he was trying to defend the Tea Party movement against the N.A.A.C.P.'s claims of racism. That explanation was largely lost in translation, however.
Mr. Breitbart has cultivated his own news-and-commentary brand off the back of Matt Drudge, whose Drudge Report Web site he diligently updated for years. (His relationship with Mr. Drudge is the one subject Mr. Breitbart never discusses.) Back in 2005, Mr. Breitbart helped Arianna Huffington set up The Huffington Post. Mr. Breitbart's work for Ms. Huffington did not last long. His marquee site, Breitbart.com, now averages 2.6 million visitors a month, according to the measurement firm Quantcast, and in the last year he has added several extensions, like the BigGovernment site.
He says he does not monitor his Web traffic closely, but allowed that last week was one of his Web sites' most-publicized weeks ever. He did issue a correction to his account, saying the incident ''shows the imperfect nature of journalism,'' but said his mistakes had paled in comparison to those of the mainstream media.
Richard Prince, a media columnist for the Maynard Institute, which advocates for more diverse newsrooms and news coverage, said that stories suggesting reverse discrimination appeal to a faction of Americans who are disaffected toward the Obama administration and feel disadvantaged by the faltering economy.
''It comes down to the economic situation,'' he said. ''When people are in these kinds of straits, they look for scapegoats; they lash out.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Megyn Kelly, a Fox anchor, has devoted dozens of segments to an incident of suspected voter intimidation by a fringe group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Andrew Breitbart highlighted the edited video clip of Shirley Sherrod on one of his Web sites. ''It's warfare out there,'' he says. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (87%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MEDIA BIAS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); JOURNALISM (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); ELECTION FRAUD (69%); WRITERS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); NEWS CORP (62%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (62%); NWS (ASX) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (62%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); GLENN BECK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010



649 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Cities View Homesteads As a Source Of Income

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
BEATRICE, Neb. -- Give away land to make money?
It hardly sounds like a prudent scheme. But in a bit of deja vu, that is exactly what this small Nebraska city aims to do.
Beatrice was a starting point for the Homestead Act of 1862, the federal law that handed land to pioneering farmers. Back then, the goal was to settle the West. The goal of Beatrice's ''Homestead Act of 2010,'' is, in part, to replenish city coffers.
The calculus is simple, if counterintuitive: hand out city land now to ensure property tax revenues in the future.
''There are only so many ball fields a place can build,'' Tobias J. Tempelmeyer, the city attorney, said the other day as he stared out at grassy lots, planted with lonely mailboxes, that the city is working to get rid of. ''It really hurts having all this stuff off the tax rolls.'' 
Around the nation, cities and towns facing grim budget circumstances are grasping at unlikely -- some would say desperate -- means to bolster their shrunken tax bases. Like Beatrice, places like Dayton, Ohio, and Grafton, Ill., are giving away land for nominal fees or for nothing in the hope that it will boost the tax rolls and cut the lawn-mowing bills.
In Boca Raton, Fla., which faces a budget gap of more than $7 million, leaders are thinking about expanding the city's size and annexing neighborhoods as an antidote. Sure, more residents would cost more in services, but officials hope the added tax revenues will more than make up for it.
And leaders in Manchester, N.H., and Concord, Mass., are taking an approach that might have once seemed politically unthinkable. They are re-examining whether their communities' nonprofit organizations really deserve to be tax-free.
''The stress of the past couple years is causing us to look absolutely everywhere,'' said Anthony Logalbo, the finance director in Concord, where officials realized that 15 percent of the town's property value had become tax exempt and sent letters to nonprofit groups asking whether they would consider paying something to the town.
''Private schools and nonprofit museums and community organizations benefit the town in lots of ways,'' Mr. Logalbo said, ''except that they don't contribute to the cost of running the town.''
Analysts say that this year and next, city budgets will reach their most dismal points of the recession, largely because of lag time inherent in the way taxes are collected and distributed.
Despite signs of a recovery, if a slow one, in other elements of the economy, it may be years away for many municipalities. Between now and 2012, America's cities are likely to experience shortfalls totaling $55 billion to $85 billion, according to a survey by the National League of Cities, because of slumping revenues from property taxes and sales taxes and reduced support from state governments.
And even in places like Concord and Beatrice, where officials say budget strains are not severe enough to lead to layoffs or major cuts, a slow chafing has still taken a toll.
Beatrice (pronounced bee-AT-russ), which sits about 40 miles south of Lincoln down a highway called the Homestead Expressway, is recognized as home to the first Homestead Act application nearly 150 years ago. That law ultimately granted 270 million acres of land in 30 states to nearly anyone who could survive on it and pay a minimal fee.
Daniel Freeman, who came from Ohio, is said to have filed his claim for 160 acres near Beatrice just after midnight on Jan. 1, 1863, the day the law took effect. There were others who filed claims in other places on the same day (some say they were actually first), but Mr. Freeman captured a place in history. The government paid to take back his Nebraska homestead decades later to turn it into a national monument that honors the Homestead Act and how it transformed the nation's population.
Beatrice's new Homestead Act is not the first to revive the land giveaway. Some tiny towns, particularly in the Great Plains, have made such offers before, mainly as a way to increase dwindling populations. But disappearing is not the fear in Beatrice, which is home to several lawn-mowing equipment manufacturers and where the population has held steady at around 12,000 for decades.
Instead, city officials are hoping to return some of the many lots the city has accumulated, because of unpaid taxes or flooding risks from the Big Blue River, and return them to the tax rolls. The city has not suffered gaping budget shortfalls or the property tax declines seen in some larger cities, but some large purchases and road reconstruction have been delayed, waiting for a return to flusher times.
If the city were to give away just a few lots -- and if people were to, as required by the law, build homes on them and stay for at least three years -- Beatrice would secure annual real estate taxes on them, collect money for water, electric and sewer use, and no longer pay to mow the lawns.
The arrival of new, improved homes might also have an infectious effect on existing neighborhoods, said Neal Neidfeldt, the city administrator. The plan has its critics; at least one candidate for mayor here wonders what right the city has to give out public land to any non-taxpaying outsider who asks.
Officials acknowledge that the benefits sound modest, in the thousands of dollars annually, but say the revenue is needed.
''What is the value of a lot to us if it's empty?'' said Tom Thompson, the mayor of Grafton, where an offer of 32 city-owned lots, promoted with a television advertising campaign, has quickly led to eight takers so far. ''This is strictly financial -- a way to go upstream from the trend.''
In Dayton, officials are offering thousands of vacant, foreclosed or abandoned properties under certain conditions for nominal fees -- $500, in many cases, to cover the cost of recording fees or $1,200 if the city must initiate tax foreclosure proceedings. The prospect of city savings on mowing fees alone is enormous: each year, Dayton spends $2 million to cut grass on the properties.
Back in Beatrice, though, the effort is only creeping along. Since the Homestead Act took effect in May, many people have called with inquiries, but no one has moved onto the lots along a gravel-covered road called Grace. Two families filled out an application -- which seeks only a name, address and telephone number -- but both have since put off plans.
One applicant, William Hendrix, 47, said the city's law requiring him to secure permits for a new home on the property within six months, then build within a year after that, was too daunting. What if he could not get loans? What if he could not pay for the construction? What if he built a home but could never sell it?
''Right now, giving away the land isn't going to be doing anybody favors,'' Mr. Hendrix said. ''I realized that Beatrice will get the taxes they want, but it won't do me any good in this market.''
For their part, people in Beatrice sound patient. The peak of homesteading acres claimed under the federal act, they point out, came in 1913, some 50 years after the act's passage.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Where it all began: a cabin at the Homestead National Monument of America, top, near Beatrice, Neb. Lots, marked on a map, are available in Beatrice, where officials hope people will build. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TAX LAW (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); PROPERTY TAX (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); RECESSION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONCORD, NH, USA (92%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (55%) NEBRASKA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010



650 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Before-the-Movie Ads Aim for Entertainment Value

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Those ads that appear on movie theater screens before the lights go down come with the rarest commodity in marketing: a truly captive audience. Then why are advertising ''preshows'' usually so terrible?
Screenvision, which sells and programs in-cinema advertising, wants to spice up the preshow experience. Last week, the company unveiled its plans for a redesigned 20-minute ''advertainment'' block to marketers in a private presentation in New York. Consumers -- Screenvision says it reaches 45 million moviegoers a month -- will start to see it at local cinemas in September. 
Instead of the usual assortment of trivia, banner ads and snack-bar enticements, the new advertising preshow will rely more on celebrity and sponsored entertainment.
Nascar, for instance, has signed on to deliver exclusive video, which marketers can sponsor. The music producer Timothy Mosley, better known as Timbaland, will pop up in a series of 60- to 90-second videos during the block to talk about his influences and pick songs to play behind more traditional-looking ads. Paula Abdul is another partner, although Screenvision is keeping her role under wraps.
Most important, Screenvision is working to make the experience more interactive by incorporating extensions for mobile devices. Perhaps advertisers will offer coupons that can be downloaded only inside the theater. Or perhaps Timbaland will tell people to text him for tour dates.
''We want to make it worthwhile for folks to be there early to see this -- not unlike how people view movie trailers as entertainment in and of themselves,'' said Andrew L. Blacker, Screenvision's senior vice president for marketing and research.
Screenvision research indicates that about 23 percent of moviegoers are in their seats 16 minutes before the trailers start; about 50 percent of the audience is seated 10 minutes before showtime.
Screenvision has been tinkering for years with the advertising experience in the cinema. In 2008, the company teamed with the director Spike Lee and Verizon Wireless; Mr. Lee directed a two-minute short about Verizon's mobile V Cast network. But the recession, which decreased the number of theaters for Screenvision's services, made marketers cautious about supporting format changes. Now, when it is harder than ever to reach a broad audience, marketers are back. In-cinema advertising was one of the few ad categories that grew in 2009, according to Nielsen Media Research.
''I'm really seeing this area starting to pop,'' said Donna Speciale, president of investment and activation for MediaVest USA, which represents clients like Wal-Mart and recently worked with Screenvision on an unusual 3-D commercial for Skittles candy. ''We're really pleased to see Screenvision investing in this space because engagement in cinema is unbelievable.''
Even so, Screenvision's idea could easily backfire if moviegoers feel intruded upon.
''You have to be very aware that this is a consumer experience -- they are paying a lot of money to go to the theater and buy that popcorn,'' Ms. Speciale said. ''The goal is to make the messaging so creative and engaging that they want to play on their mobile phone with it and want to get really involved.''
Screenvision, which primarily competes with National CineMedia, is privately held and would not say what the changes will cost.
Michael Chico, Screenvision's executive vice president for sales and marketing, said the company's revenue this year had grown by double digits over last year. A staff of 110 sells ads locally, regionally and nationally. About 25 percent of revenue is local, Mr. Chico said.
Screenvision has grand ambitions for its preshow. ''If we do a good job there would be distribution in other places,'' like theater lobbies or even airlines, Mr. Blacker said.
Timbaland said a collaboration with Screenvision was appealing both as a new creative outlet and a way to stoke his personal brand. ''I don't follow people -- I like to do things to make people follow me,'' he said.
Monique Idlett-Mosley, his wife and the co-president of Mosley Music Group, said the idea was actually hers. ''We're huge moviegoers, and we were sitting there in this theater one day and noticed how everyone was paying attention to this preshow,'' she said. ''I said, 'Wow, from a marketing perspective, this is gold.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The music producer Timbaland is helping Screenvision find ways to make preshows in theaters more interesting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARTHUR MOLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); CINEMA ADVERTISING (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); MOBILE MEDIA (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); MOVIE THEATERS (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (77%); EXECUTIVES (68%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (63%); THEATER (58%)

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (81%); NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (62%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (52%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (52%); VZ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (81%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (62%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010



651 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WASHINGTON MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Battle Lines Over A Reformer

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
Elizabeth Warren last week won the endorsements of several dozen Congressional Democrats, two of the nation's leading labor groups and her hometown newspaper, The Boston Globe.
One would be forgiven for thinking that the Harvard professor is running for elected office.
Instead, Ms. Warren's supporters want President Obama to nominate her as the first head of a new consumer financial protection bureau created by the legislation he signed into law last week. They say that Ms. Warren, who conceived the idea and helped shepherd its passage into law, is the only acceptable choice to finish the project. 
''It is essential to the bill and very, very important that Elizabeth Warren be appointed,'' Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and an architect of the law, said Friday on MSNBC.
There is little question that Ms. Warren has become a hero to liberals who see her as a scourge of the banking industry.
But the loud, insistent campaign -- highly unusual for presidential appointments other than Supreme Court nominees or cabinet positions -- also reflects deep anxiety that the work of overhauling financial regulation is shifting from Congress to agencies that are insulated from public pressure and will write and put into effect hundreds of new rules.
Ms. Warren's supporters regard her as the best person to represent consumers during that process. But they also crave the symbolic value of her appointment, which almost certainly would cause a partisan confirmation battle, as an affirmation that the White House is committed to imposing significant new restrictions on the financial industry.
''A lot of us are terrified about what happens in rule-making,'' said Stephen Lerner of the Service Employees International Union, which is pressing the administration to nominate Ms. Warren. ''Symbolically, it does seem incredibly important to pick somebody who not only invented the idea, but someone who doesn't claim to be a neutral.''
Bankers oppose her nomination for exactly that reason. Roger M. Beverage, head of the Oklahoma Bankers Association, said that Ms. Warren was widely respected in Oklahoma, where she was raised and is still remembered as a high school debate champion. But he said that his members did not believe she would understand the needs and concerns of community banks.
''Not that she's not competent. Goodness gracious, I would never say that. She's exceptionally bright. We just fear what she might come up with,'' Mr. Beverage said. ''She's a partisan and she's bull-headed and she's opinionated. And she's terrific. She's a great advocate. We just respectfully disagree with her view of the world.''
Ms. Warren herself has not campaigned publicly for the nomination, though people who know her say that she would welcome it.
The debate over her candidacy threatens to sour the celebration of a law that the White House hoped would rally Democrats facing difficult midterm elections. The consumer bureau will be the popular face of the law, which also subjects more financial companies to federal oversight, extends regulation to activities including derivatives trading and creates a new council to detect risks to the financial system and broader economy.
So far, the administration has sought to walk a fine line, embracing Ms. Warren and her supporters while refraining from granting their demand. The White House has vetted Ms. Warren and at least two other candidates for the job, officials say.
''I have the highest regard for Elizabeth. We have not made decisions about who we're going to appoint yet,'' Mr. Obama said Friday on ABC's ''Good Morning America.''
Ms. Warren proposed the creation of a federal agency to protect consumers of financial products, in a 2007 article that said the government put more effort in protecting people who buy toaster ovens than people who borrow money to buy homes.
The idea resonated with Mr. Obama and his senior advisers, and it became a centerpiece of the administration's proposal to overhaul financial regulation. The White House worked with Ms. Warren to flesh out the details, and it worked with her to win the support of Congress. But some administration officials are not sure that Ms. Warren is the best choice to run the new agency.
There is no doubt about her status as a symbol.
''She represents to a large part of the country -- not just people caught up in the damage of the crisis, but people who view this system as being fundamentally broken -- she represents one of the most compelling advocates for reform,'' Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said at a breakfast with reporters last week.
In an interview Sunday on ABC's ''This Week,'' Mr. Geithner cited what he called Ms. Warren's ''enormous credibility'' and said that, despite her criticism of the Treasury Department, he had no concerns about her possible appointment.
But others have expressed doubts about Ms. Warren's qualifications, including some Senate Democrats whose votes would be required to confirm her nomination. Detractors say that Ms. Warren lacks management experience, and that she is too partisan to be an effective referee.
The other known candidates are both consumer advocates who have more experience in government: Michael S. Barr, an assistant Treasury secretary who played a central role in drafting the financial legislation, and Eugene I. Kimmelman, a former consumer advocate, now deputy assistant attorney general in the antitrust division of the Justice Department.
Even some admirers worry that a draining confirmation battle could weaken the new bureau during the critical period when its scope and powers are being defined by its early decisions.
Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and chairman of the banking committee, warned last week that it would be difficult to gather the 60 votes to confirm Ms. Warren.
But her supporters are spoiling for the fight.
With midterm elections fast approaching, they are itching for a public debate about consumer protection. There also is frustration among some liberals that the White House has in several instances chosen not to take up the issues that they consider most important.
Mr. Frank said that liberals would be justified in holding Mr. Obama accountable for this decision.
''We didn't get a public option and other things we wanted. That wasn't his fault,'' said Mr. Frank, referring to the removal of a major provision from health care legislation. ''The economic recovery bill, the stimulus, it wasn't as big as it should have been. That wasn't his fault. He couldn't get the votes.
''With regard to appointing Elizabeth Warren, that's his decision. No one can stop him from making it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elizabeth Warren faces criticism about being too partisan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); COMMUNITY BANKS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (57%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (94%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010



652 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: The I.M.F. We Need

 BODY:
Just a year after the Group of 20 agreed to triple the resources of the International Monetary Fund to $750 billion, the head of the fund, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, is asking for $250 billion more to bolster its lending war chest.
This is a lot of money. Given its stake in the fund, Washington's share could be about $42 billion. The fund should still get it. No one should forget that just a few weeks ago the I.M.F. had to commit nearly $40 billion to help stop Greece from imploding, and days later, it promised $320 billion to try to stop the euro from crashing. 
At a time when an economic crisis can spread in seconds, the fund also needs to become more agile. It comes to the rescue usually only after a country is deeply in crisis, offering loans in exchange for painstakingly negotiated policy reforms. It has rightly begun to look at ways it can help head off crises before they start.
Last year, it started new ''flexible credit lines'' -- preapproved unconditional loans for countries that meet tough macroeconomic policy criteria but could still get sideswiped as a crisis ripples around the world. The I.M.F. hopes that with this kind of guarantee the pre- approved borrowers may never need to draw on the loans. Now it is looking at ''precautionary credit lines,'' with conditions, for countries with weaker finances.
So far only Mexico, Poland and South Korea have lined up for the blue-ribbon ''flexible credit lines.'' Others have feared that doing so would signal weakness to financial markets. The ''precautionary credit lines'' may be even less popular. Still, the I.M.F. is right to be thinking this way.
Credibility is also essential for the fund to do its work. Right now it has far too little in the developing world, where it is seen as unfairly favoring wealthy countries. Developing countries noted that its loan to Greece amounted to 22 times Athens's share of the fund's capital. And many Asian nations -- critical of the drastic budget cuts the I.M.F. demanded of them during the 1990s Asian financial crisis -- are resentful of the relative lenience the fund has shown toward Europe.
The fund's thinking has evolved in recent years. It must, of course, require borrowers to commit to sound fiscal policies. But it increasingly accepts the notion that countries need to maintain viable social safety nets to protect the most vulnerable. And it has dropped its emphasis on ''structural'' performance criteria -- privatization, banking regulation, trade policy -- that were seen as doctrinaire and unrelated to the problem at hand.
The fund could bolster its credibility in the developing world if the United States and Europe were to chuck their 65-year-old agreement to have a European running the fund and an American in charge of the World Bank.
Rich countries must also give more voting power to developing countries, including China and Brazil, whose growing power in the world economy is not matched by their say at the fund. Leaders of the G-20 must follow through on their pledge to shift 5 percent of the I.M.F.'s shares and voting power from rich countries (mainly in Europe and the Middle East) to developing nations.
We know that calling for more money for the I.M.F. will not be politically popular, especially at a time when governments around the world have vowed to cut spending at home. Some European countries are already balking at giving up some of their voting power. These are perilous times. And a strong, credible and well-financed fund is absolutely essential for global economic stability.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BUDGETS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (77%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (79%); GREECE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010



653 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Four Ways to Kill a Climate Bill

BYLINE: By LEE WASSERMAN. 
Lee Wasserman is the director of the Rockefeller Family Fund.

 BODY:
IF President Obama and Congress had announced that no financial reform legislation would pass unless Goldman Sachs agreed to the bill, we would conclude our leaders had been standing in the Washington sun too long. Yet when it came to addressing climate change, that is precisely the course the president and Congress took. Lacking support from those most responsible for the problem, they have given up on passing a major climate bill this year.
It's true that passing legislation to rebuild our fossil fuel-based economy was always going to be a momentous challenge. Senators and representatives feel in their bones (and campaign accounts) the interests of utilities and the coal and oil industries. Even well-intentioned members of Congress struggle to balance the competing needs of energy-intensive industries, coal workers and American families. 
But with climate change a stated priority for President Obama and Congress, how did they fall so short? By weaving four coordinated threads into a shroud of inaction. This began long before President Obama took office, but rather than rip up the old pattern -- as he advocated during the campaign -- the president quickly took his place at the loom.
Thread No. 1:Climate is out; green jobs are in. Despite climate change being the greatest challenge of our time, with millions of people facing inundation, starvation and conflicts over scarce resources, the White House directed advocates not to discuss it. At a meeting in April 2009 led by Carol Browner, the White House coordinator of energy and climate policy, administration message mavens told climate bill advocates that, given the polling, they should avoid talking about climate change and focus on green jobs and energy independence.
Had Lyndon Johnson likewise relied on polling, he would have told the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. to talk only about the expanded industry and jobs that Southerners would realize after passage of a federal civil rights act. I could imagine Dr. King's response.
The urge to avoid the topic of climate change is not new. While Bill Clinton and Al Gore have done noble work on climate since leaving office, when they had the presidential megaphone they did little to educate the public about the wolf at our door. President Obama has followed suit, and our national comprehension of climate change continues to stagnate. Virtually the only public officials working to shape opinion on this over the past two years have been those committed to misrepresenting the science.
Thread No. 2: Devising a bill for historic polluters, not the American people. Remember the president's campaign pledge to represent the people, not the lobbyists? That's not what he's done on this issue.
For several years the Beltway wisdom has been that it is impossible to pass a bill without the approval of historic polluters, particularly the utilities, which run coal-burning power plants, the nation's single largest source of climate-changing pollution. The administration and Congress did their best to get the industry's permission for new regulations. They proposed handing power companies hundreds of billions of dollars worth of allowances to pollute, additional billions to subsidize the development of technology to sequester carbon from coal-fired plants, and evisceration of federal authority under the Clean Air Act to regulate carbon. Peter Orszag, the budget director, said giving away pollution permits would be ''the largest corporate welfare program that has ever been enacted in the history of the United States.'' But no matter -- it wasn't enough.
Thread No. 3: A Rube Goldberg-policy construction. Because Congress built a policy machine designed for special interests, most proposals were chockablock with policy contraptions impossible to even explain, much less put into effect. Provisions included pollution allowances for favored corporations, carbon credit-default swaps, complicated worldwide offset provisions to enable avoidance of actual pollution reductions at home and loopholes to extend the life of the dirtiest coal plants. By the end of the process, even Campbell Soup demanded a special deal for the carbon-intensive job of making chicken noodle soup.
This rush to the trough was inevitable once President Obama ditched his plan to push a simple market-based bill that would have required polluters, rather than citizens, to pay for switching from fossil fuels to renewable forms of energy.
Thread No. 4: The public sits it out. American history has few examples of presidents or Congresses upending entrenched interests without public pressure forcing their hand. Teddy Roosevelt is on Mount Rushmore for a reason.
Citizens wouldn't support an approach they couldn't understand to solve a problem our leaders refused to acknowledge. Even the earth's flagging ability to support life as we know it couldn't stir a public outcry. The loudest voices insisted that leaders in Washington do nothing.
They obliged.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEX NABAUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); LOBBYING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (75%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); COAL INDUSTRY (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (74%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (74%); POWER PLANTS (69%); COAL MINING (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (62%); APPROVALS (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (77%); CAROL BROWNER (58%); AL GORE (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010



654 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Serving Big Initiatives in Bite-Size Portions

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
Democrats will try to stave off electoral disaster in November with tools like these: electric-car batteries, free mammograms and loans for dry cleaners.
Promoting each of those sounds modest, practical and nonideological - which is precisely the point. After 18 months of pushing big ideas, in big legislation, with big price tags, President Obama and Congressional Democrats are stepping up the rhetoric of small.
You can see it in the administration's piece-by-piece rollout of the new health care law, and Mr. Obama's travels to highlight individual benefits of economic stimulus legislation. And you can see it in the small-business lending fund that the administration is advocating on Capitol Hill alongside Senator Mary Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana, who beseeches colleagues to act in the name of the Taco Sisters restaurant in Lafayette, La. 
No wonder the incumbent party wants to move from macro to micro. Upset over slow growth, accelerating debt and unemployment near 10 percent, voters have not discerned large benefits from the $787 billion stimulus or the $938 billion health care law.
Even the new Wall Street regulation Mr. Obama signed into law last week, which Democrats see as a populist campaign weapon, has not paid big immediate dividends. ''If you can't do it in the moment when people are paying attention,'' said Neil Newhouse, a Republican pollster, ''how are you ever going to get any traction?''
By talking a lot more about simplified mortgage paperwork and reduced credit card charges, that's how, said Joel Benenson, Mr. Obama's pollster.
''Within each of these large achievements,'' Mr. Benenson said, are discrete benefits ''specifically directed to the struggles that people are having.'' He added, ''The campaign is just being engaged.''
Digestible Messages
As he sought re-election in 1996, President Bill Clinton set the modern standard for what his successor, George W. Bush, would derisively call ''small ball.'' Blocked by a Republican Congress on larger priorities like health care, Mr. Clinton lowered his sights and appealed to suburban swing voters with priorities like promoting school uniforms, and V-chips to block offensive television content.
Mr. Obama, by contrast, has advanced one expansive idea after the other. But the end of that phase will be evident this week when the Senate takes up drastically scaled-down energy legislation.
Republican campaign veterans are not surprised by the Democrats' turn toward selling their enormous initiatives through more digestible messages. Nor do they seem worried that it will impede their midterm election momentum.
''I don't think they have any choice but to start talking about small steps,'' said Scott Reed, who ran Bob Dole's Republican presidential campaign against Mr. Clinton in 1996. ''The big things they've tried to do are all 40 percent issues.''
But Mr. Obama lacks a key strategic advantage that his Democratic predecessor in the Oval Office enjoyed. Mr. Clinton's small initiatives came as a relief to voters exhausted by the aggressive conservatism of a Republican Congress led by Newt Gingrich, then the House speaker.
Since Democrats control the White House and Congress alike, ''Obama doesn't have anybody to contrast with,'' Mr. Reed said. ''He doesn't really have a boogeyman right now.''
A Sharper Approach
The White House demonstrated its step-by-step messaging on health care last week with a video from Michelle Obama and Jill Biden on new preventive care services, and the award of grant money for states to assist new parents. Mr. Obama's aides insist it is gradually working, pointing to polls showing an uptick in public support for the health care law.
''Good luck with that,'' said Mr. Newhouse, the Republican pollster. The administration and Democratic candidates are only ''treading water'' with such positive messages, he said.
Instead, he predicts the Democrats' chance for keeping control of Congress will turn on the effectiveness of their negative campaigning against Republicans. And the sharpening partisanship of Mr. Obama's recent rhetoric shows how, indeed, attacking in the homestretch represents a critical element of Democratic strategy.
To draw the sort of contrast Mr. Reed alluded to, Mr. Obama will revive memories of President George W. Bush, who left office with dismal approval ratings, and accuse Republicans of attempting to revive policies that helped cause the recession and financial crisis in the first place.
At the same time, Democrats will hit Republicans for having tried unsuccessfully to block the bite-size benefits for average families they boast of delivering. To counter Republican charges of big government, they will argue that the minority party favored banks over college students on student loan policies, insurance companies over patients on new coverage mandates and Wall Street over Main Street on consumer finance protections.
''Fighting at every turn to protect big corporate interests,'' Mr. Benenson said. ''That's the record they're going to have to defend.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (76%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); RESTAURANTS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); MARY LANDRIEU (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010



655 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Growing Up Paupers In a Land Of Privilege

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

 BODY:
Alexandra Pelosi's approach hasn't changed much since her first documentary, ''Journeys With George'' in 2002, in which her subject, George W. Bush, compared her to a head cold. Like a kid sister with a camera, she tags along, asking annoying questions. It isn't subtle, but through ingratiation and obstinance she ends up seeing a lot.
Her latest project, ''Homeless: The Motel Kids of Orange County'' (Monday night on HBO), is the first not to focus on politics or religion. Its subjects are children living with their families in motels, four or five or more people and all their possessions in one room, with a single bathroom and a microwave for a kitchen. 
The resilience and early maturity of children in bad situations is a familiar motif, but the 6-to-11-year-olds in ''Homeless'' convey a particularly heartbreaking blend of innocence and experience. They lead Ms. Pelosi around their world -- room, parking lot, stairwell, Dumpster, drug dealer, sex offender -- like experienced tour guides, some enthusiastic, some already defeated.
''What's the worst part about being a homeless kid?'' Ms. Pelosi asks a 6-year-old boy who shares a room with his mother, three siblings and four dogs. ''Everybody asks you dumb questions,'' he answers, his thumb in his mouth.
For Ms. Pelosi that's a method. When she wants to make a point and needs a certain answer, she gets it. As one mother explains the economics of Southern California motel life -- $800 to $900 a month for a motel room versus $1,300 or more for a studio apartment -- Ms. Pelosi asks sharply, ''Why do you live in Orange County if you can't afford to live here?'' It may seem unkind (the woman has lived in Orange County all her life), but most viewers will have been wondering the same thing, however guiltily.
''Homeless'' presents endlessly charming children in scenes that become increasingly sad. In one of the most poignant, a group of children storm a Dumpster to scavenge the possessions left behind by an evicted family. One boy keeps returning despite his mother's protests and finally walks away smiling with a binder and a green stuffed animal.
Ms. Pelosi advances a theme of the failed American dream: homeless kids in an affluent county (though not affluent in the inland areas where they live); unhappy lives across the street from Disneyland, the happiest place in the world. The delivery may be heavy-handed, but it's not as if we hear this message too often in prime time. And she's right: Growing up among the working poor, living in motel rooms and constantly changing schools has already damaged these children in ways that will be hard for most of them to overcome.
At the school for children of homeless families that many of Ms. Pelosi's subjects attend, a teacher leads a discussion on what it means to be American. For one thing, she says, Americans have rights, don't they? A 7-year-old boy in the back pipes up: ''I've got the right to remain silent.''
Homeless
The Motel Kids of Orange County HBO, Monday night at 9, Eastern and Pacific times; 8, Central time.
Directed, produced and filmed by Alexandra Pelosi. For HBO: Lisa Heller, senior producer; Sheila Nevins, executive producer. Produced by Purple Monkey Productions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); EVICTION (76%); POOR POPULATION (75%); FAMILY (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (56%); RELIGION (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Homeless: The Motel Kids of Orange County (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010



656 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Geithner Dismisses Concerns on Letting Tax Cuts Expire

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner pressed the case on Sunday for letting Bush-era tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans expire later this year.
In appearances on two television programs, Mr. Geithner said that letting tax cuts expire for those who make $250,000 a year or more would affect 2 percent to 3 percent of all Americans. He dismissed concerns that the move could push a teetering economy back into recession and argued that it would demonstrate America's commitment to addressing its trillion-dollar budget deficit. 
On ''This Week'' on ABC, he said, ''We think that's the responsible thing to do because we need to make sure we can show the world'' that America is ''willing as a country now to start to make some progress bringing down our long-term deficits.''
Mr. Geithner added, ''I do not believe it will affect growth.''
Most Republicans and some Democrats in Congress strongly disagree and have pledged to launch an all-out effort to extend the tax cuts for people of all incomes. The cuts were passed under President George W. Bush in 2001 and 2003. Supporters of extending the cuts for everyone argue that raising taxes on any group, particularly one considered crucial for creating jobs, could endanger a precarious economic recovery.
Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, spoke about the administration's plans in an appearance on ''Fox News Sunday.''
''The safest thing for America would be to have a provision passed this fall that said no tax increase of any kind for 2011,'' said Mr. Gingrich, who is considering a run for the Republican presidential nomination in 2012. ''I mean the fact is, everywhere I go -- and I've been in 10 states in the last 14 days -- businesspeople say to me over and over again, 'I will create no new jobs in this environment because the uncertainty is too frightening.' ''
Mr. Geithner said the Obama administration supported keeping tax cuts in place for those who earn less than the wealthiest Americans, particularly the middle class. However, he said, the administration was also committed to taking steps toward shrinking America's debt. And on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC, Mr. Geithner painted a less dire picture of the economy, playing down fears of a double-dip recession, while acknowledging that a full recovery remained a long way away.
''I think the most likely thing you'll see is an economy that gradually strengthens over the next year or two,'' he said. ''You'll see job growth start to come back, investments expanding, but we've got a long way to go still.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said that letting some Bush tax cuts expire was ''the responsible thing to do.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM BOURG/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); JOB CREATION (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BARACK OBAMA (51%); NEWT GINGRICH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010



657 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: BlackBerry's Era May Be Ending

BYLINE: By ROBERT CYRAN and PETER THAL LARSEN

 BODY:
Research In Motion's future looks bleak. R.I.M., which makes the popular BlackBerry devices, has had a traditional stronghold in sales to American companies. But that has been cracked open.
Apple said last week that more than 80 percent of the Fortune 100 companies were testing or deploying its iPhone. Meanwhile, phones using Google's Android operating system appear to be making inroads, too. That spells trouble for R.I.M.
Corporations and consumers used to be happy with handsets that served up e-mail reliably, promptly and securely. R.I.M.'s products do this very well. Now, though, Android and Apple handsets adequately handle e-mail, while also doing much more. For instance, iPhone users can download about 30 times as many apps as are available to BlackBerry users, and the process is more user-friendly. 
R.I.M.'s share of the American smartphone market reflects this shift. It fell to 41 percent in the first quarter from 55 percent in the previous year, according to Gartner. The combined share held by iPhones and Android handsets rose to 49 percent, from 23 percent over the same period.
True, R.I.M.'s sales in overseas markets are increasing, enabling it to hold its share of the global smartphone market more or less steady. But handset trends increasingly originate in the United States because of the growing importance of smartphone software.
Moreover, R.I.M.'s overseas push has been accompanied by a sharp fall in the average price of its handsets. While phones are priced differently overseas, the suspicion is the company is losing pricing power. Nokia's troubles, and the decline in its stock price, show that increasing volume doesn't matter if prices fall too fast.
The BlackBerry maker's shares may appear cheap. They trade at 10 times estimated earnings for this fiscal year. Yet Apple and Google's dominance in apps means they are becoming de facto standards in the smartphone market. Technology companies that lose such wars often suffer shockingly fast profit declines.
R.I.M. still has a shot. This fall, it is due to introduce a new operating system, which might help it fight back. But time is running short.
Low-Stress Tests
Europe's bank tests, uncorked on Friday, were not stressful enough. Only 7 of the 91 lenders assessed by the Continent's regulators will need extra capital to see them through a severe economic shock. Forcing banks to disclose their government bond portfolios, however, gives investors the power to conduct their own more rigorous stress tests.
The official versions fell short in two important ways. First, regulators used the ratio of Tier 1 capital to assets to assess balance sheet strength, clearing any bank that had a ratio of more than 6 percent after a two-year economic shock. But Tier 1 capital, which includes hybrid debt and other nonequity instruments, is suspect. Investors no longer trust it, and regulators are trying to agree on a tougher definition of capital.
The second, bigger, failing was the way the tests handled sovereign debt. Despite concerns about the finances of Greece, Spain and other euro zone countries, banks were not forced to withstand a hypothetical default. The compromise regulators devised was to assume a sharp increase in government bond yields.
This test, however, affects only portfolios that have to be marked to market prices. A vast majority of banks' government bonds are held in so-called banking books, where losses are recognized only in the event of a default. As a result, all but one of Greece's banks passed the test, despite huge holdings of their own government's debt.
At least what the tests lacked in severity they made up for in disclosure. Banks were asked to spell out their holdings of European government bonds. It is up to individual lenders to release that information, but with the exception of a handful of German banks including Deutsche Bank, most have already done so.
This information will allow investors to make up their own minds about the sovereign risks on the banks' balance sheets. Institutions deemed too risky will probably find it hard to obtain financing unless they raise more capital. And banks are bound to find the market's stress tests tougher than the one they just completed.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The BlackBerry, a staple on the hips of business people, is facing competition from Apple and Google. The iPhone and Android marketplaces offer far more apps. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK BLINCH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (94%); SMARTPHONES (93%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (75%); TRENDS (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%); BONDS (62%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (92%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (91%); GOOGLE INC (82%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (92%); RIM (TSX) (91%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (91%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010



658 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: The Right And The Climate

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
Climate change legislation has been dying in the Senate for months now, but Harry Reid's decision to finally admit as much -- in the midst of an endless East Coast heat wave, no less -- has supporters of cap-and-trade casting about for somebody to blame. They've blamed the Obama administration, for prioritizing health care reform over an energy bill. They've blamed the American people, for being too concerned with economic issues to grapple with longer-term threats. And they've blamed figures like Lindsey Graham and John McCain, erstwhile supporters of cap-and-trade who have steadily backpedaled away from it.
But most of all, they've blamed conservatives -- for pressuring Republican lawmakers to abandon legislation they once supported, and for closing ranks against any attempt to tax and regulate our way to a lower-carbon economy. 
Cap-and-trade's backers are correct to point the finger rightward. If their bill is dead, it was the American conservative movement that ultimately killed it. Climate legislation wasn't like health care, with Democrats voting ''yes'' in lockstep. There was no way to get a bill through without some support from conservative lawmakers. And in the global warming debate, there's a seemingly unbridgeable gulf between the conservative movement and the environmentalist cause.
To understand why, it's worth going back to the 1970s, the crucible in which modern right-wing politics was forged.
The Seventies were a great decade for apocalyptic enthusiasms, and none was more potent than the fear that human population growth had outstripped the earth's carrying capacity. According to a chorus of credentialed alarmists, the world was entering an age of sweeping famines, crippling energy shortages, and looming civilizational collapse.
It was not lost on conservatives that this analysis led inexorably to left-wing policy prescriptions -- a government-run energy sector at home, and population control for the teeming masses overseas.
Social conservatives and libertarians, the two wings of the American right, found common ground resisting these prescriptions. And time was unkind to the alarmists. The catastrophes never materialized, and global living standards soared. By the turn of the millennium, the developed world was worrying about a birth dearth.
This is the lens through which most conservatives view the global warming debate. Again, a doomsday scenario has generated a crisis atmosphere, which is being invoked to justify taxes and regulations that many left-wingers would support anyway. (Some of the players have even been recycled. John Holdren, Barack Obama's science adviser, was a friend and ally of Paul Ehrlich, whose tract ''The Population Bomb'' helped kick off the overpopulation panic.)
History, however, rarely repeats itself exactly -- and conservatives who treat global warming as just another scare story are almost certainly mistaken.
Rising temperatures won't ''destroy'' the planet, as fearmongers and celebrities like to say. But the evidence that carbon emissions are altering the planet's ecology is too convincing to ignore. Conservatives who dismiss climate change as a hoax are making a spectacle of their ignorance.
But this doesn't mean that we should mourn the death of cap-and-trade. It's possible that the best thing to do about a warming earth -- for now, at least -- is relatively little. This is the view advanced by famous global-warming heretics like Bjorn Lomborg and Freeman Dyson; in recentonline debates, it has been championed by Jim Manzi, the American right's most persuasive critic of climate-change legislation.
Their perspective is grounded, in part, on the assumption that a warmer world will also be a richer world -- and that economic development is likely to do more for the wretched of the earth than a growth-slowing regulatory regime.
But it's also grounded in skepticism that such a regime is possible. Any attempt to legislate our way to a cooler earth, the argument goes, will inevitably resemble the package of cap-and-trade emission restrictions that passed the House last year: a Rube Goldberg contraption whose buy-offs and giveaways swamped its original purpose.
Liberals disagree, of course. They think the skeptics underestimate the potential for catastrophe, and overestimate the costs of regulation. They, too, look to the past for lessons, but their model is the Clean Air Act and its various modifications, which reduced domestic air pollution relatively cheaply.
But the Clean Air Act didn't require collective action on a global scale -- the kind of action that last year's Copenhagen conference placed ever further out of reach. What's more, a crucial technology, the catalytic converter, was already on the way as the act's provisions went into effect. Cap-and-trade is more of a leap in the dark.
Liberalism specializes in such leaps. But you can see why conservatives might lean toward the wisdom of inaction. Not every danger has a regulatory solution, and sometimes it makes sense to wait, get richer, and then try to muddle through.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (88%); WEATHER (79%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (76%); ENERGY REGULATION (76%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); POPULATION GROWTH (63%); FAMINE (62%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



659 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
A FOCUS ON ENGLISH
Worries Many in Indonesia
Indonesia's linguistic legacy is increasingly under threat as growing numbers of wealthy and upper-middle-class families shun public schools where Indonesian remains the main language and English is often taught poorly. They are turning, instead, to private schools that focus on English and devote little time, if any, to Indonesian. PAGE A4
CHILE REJECTS PARDON CALLS 
President Sebastian Pinera of Chile abruptly rejected calls from the Roman Catholic Church to pardon dozens of imprisoned military officials convicted of human rights violations during the era known as Chile's dirty war. PAGE A7
TRIAL OF KHMER ROUGE FIGURE
A United Nations-backed tribunal was preparing to announce its verdict in the first trial of a major figure in the murderous Khmer Rouge regime since it was toppled 30 years ago. PAGE A7
COUNTRIES BEGIN WAR DRILLS
The United States and South Korea began their largest joint war games in years, with a nuclear powered American aircraft carrier prowling off the east coast of South Korea while North Korea threatened to retaliate and reportedly put its military on alert for war. PAGE A6
National
GEITHNER DISMISSES WORRIES
On Letting Tax Cuts Expire
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner pressed the case for letting Bush-era tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans expire later this year, and dismissed concerns that the move could push a teetering economy back into recession. PAGE A15
PUSHING SMALLER INITIATIVES
Democrats will try to stave off electoral disaster in November with tools like these: electric-car batteries, free mammograms and loans for dry cleaners. Promoting each sounds modest and non-ideological -- which is precisely the point. John Harwood, The Caucus. PAGE A15
New York
STORE'S OPENING IS SIGN
Of Shift in East Harlem
The grand opening of a Target store on Pleasant Avenue in East Harlem, once known as one of the most famous gangland stretches in the history of the mob, represents a new era in the life of one of New York City's most misnamed thoroughfares. PAGE A21
STATES HOOKED ON GAMBLING
New Jersey, Connecticut and New York -- and most of their neighbors -- are desperate for cash and averse to raising taxes, and all are deciding to double down on casinos, the one business that seemed to be eternally growing until it was no longer. Peter Applebome, Our Towns. PAGE A18
Business
FRATERNITY OF THE WIRED
Works in the Wee Hours
A group called the New York Nightowls is a sort of study hall for entrepreneurs, freelancers and software developers who gather at 10 every Thursday night and stay as late as 4 a.m. Although the New York group has been meeting only since April, the concept is catching on. PAGE B1
PROVOCATEURS AS JOURNALISTS
A Web-enabled system of news was supposed to bring accountability and real-time fact-checking to current events. But the velocity that is the medium's chief feature is less a tool of efficacy than instigation. David Carr, The Media Equation. PAGE B1
MARKETING 'TRON'
Marketing campaigns for what the Hollywood calls ''tent-pole'' movies -- big budget, big risk, big potential payoff -- have traditionally started about a year before their release in theaters. But Walt Disney Studios will have spent three and a half years priming the audience pump for ''Tron.'' PAGE B1
EXPLORING ALGAE AS FUEL
Dozens of companies, as well as many academic laboratories, are trying to produce algae that can serve as a source of, literally, green energy. PAGE B1
Sports
FOR FORMER TOP PROSPECT,
A Last Shot at a Dream
For independent ball, Ben Davis boasts an impressive resume. He came to bat 1,698 times in the major leagues. In his first game at the old Yankee Stadium, eight years ago, he hit a home run off Orlando Hernandez on the first pitch he saw. But the former second overall pick is a pitcher now, and at 33, is making one last push to make it back to the majors. PAGE D1
CONTADOR WINS THIRD TOUR
The Spanish rider Alberto Contador won the Tour de France for the third time. But a quick glance at this year's podium, though, showed one glaring difference from last year: the absence of the seven-time Tour winner Lance Armstrong, who has said that this will be his final Tour. PAGE D1
RODRIGUEZ REMAINS AT 599
Following the Yankees' 12-6 victory over the Kansas City Royals , Alex Rodriguez, who was hit by a pitch, left Yankee Stadium with a smile on his face and -- holding for the third day -- a total of 599 home runs in his eventful and much-discussed career. PAGE D3
Arts
A SEXUAL OUTLAW
On the Gay Frontier
The author Justin Spring tracked down the executor of the estate of Samuel Steward, a little-known literary figure, and found an attic full of items containing a secret history of a little-documented strand of gay life in the middle decades of the 20th century. Those findings inform ''Secret Historian,'' his new biography on Mr. Steward due out next month. PAGE B1
AN ISLAND OF NOISE
Jon Pareles writes that Hard NYC, the eight-hour dance music festival, on Governors Island, was noise as celebration and assault, as science experiment and come-on, using high-tech equipment to generate visceral, body-moving effects. PAGE C1
Obituaries
GERSON GOLDHABER, 86
After a long career studying the innermost particles of matter, he turned his attention, at the age of 65, to the outer reaches of the universe and found, with others, early evidence that dark energy was pulling it apart. PAGE A17
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A23
ROSS DOUTHAT PAGE A23
Online
VIDEO Times golf blogger Bill Pennington looks at what makes a good partner on the golf course.
nytimes.com/sports

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); FAMILY (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); POLITICS (76%); PARDONS (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); VERDICTS (75%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (71%); TAX LAW (71%); MILITARY VESSELS (70%); RELIGION (70%); NAVAL VESSELS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (64%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (60%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (57%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (56%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (55%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) INDONESIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHILE (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010



660 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include June new-home sales (Monday); the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller home price index for May and July consumer confidence index (Tuesday); durable goods for June and the Federal Reserve's beige book (Wednesday); jobless claims (Thursday); second-quarter gross domestic product, the Chicago purchasing managers' index for July and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting this week include AK Steel, BP, DuPont, Lockheed Martin, Office Depot, United States Steel and Aetna (Tuesday); Boeing, Coca-Cola Enterprises, Comcast, Conoco Phillips, Corning, Eastman Kodak, General Dynamics, International Paper, Sprint Nextel and WellPoint (Wednesday); Avon Products, Colgate-Palmolive, Dr Pepper Snapple, Exxon Mobil, Goodyear, the Interpublic Group, Kellogg, McClatchy, Motorola, Northrop Grumman, Raytheon, Southwest Airlines, Waste Management and MetLife (Thursday); and Chevron, Eastman Chemical, Merck, Newell Rubbermaid and Weyerhaeuser (Friday).
IN WASHINGTON An advisory committee of the Food and Drug Administration will review a Medtronic spine device that uses a protein intended to promote bone growth (Tuesday). The House Financial Services Committee will conduct a hearing on alternatives for promoting liquidity in commercial real estate markets, supporting small businesses and increasing job growth; and a House Financial Services subcommittee will conduct a hearing on the role of private mortgage insurance in housing finance (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (79%); DURABLE GOODS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (70%); CHEMICALS (70%); CHEMICALS MFG (70%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (70%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (70%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (69%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES INC (57%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (57%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (57%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%); AK STEEL HOLDING CORP (57%); BOEING CO (57%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES NEDERLAND BV (57%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (56%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (56%); AVON PRODUCTS INC (56%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (56%); RAYTHEON CO (56%); WELLPOINT INC (56%); NEWELL RUBBERMAID INC (56%); GENERAL DYNAMICS INTERNATIONAL CORP (56%); MEDTRONIC INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (70%); S (NYSE) (70%); IPG (NYSE) (69%); CCE (PAR) (57%); CCE (NYSE) (57%); LMT (NYSE) (57%); X (NYSE) (57%); LUV (NYSE) (57%); AKS (NYSE) (57%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); MSI (NYSE) (56%); CL (NYSE) (56%); AVP (NYSE) (56%); XOM (NYSE) (56%); NOC (NYSE) (56%); RTN (NYSE) (56%); WLP (NYSE) (56%); NWL (NYSE) (56%); MDT (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (70%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (70%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (70%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (70%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (70%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (70%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (70%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (70%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (70%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (69%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (56%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (56%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (56%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (56%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (56%); NAICS339940 OFFICE SUPPLIES (EXCEPT PAPER) MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS337920 BLIND & SHADE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS326199 ALL OTHER PLASTICS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3951 PENS, MECHANICAL PENCILS, & PARTS (56%); SIC3089 PLASTICS PRODUCTS, NEC (56%); SIC2591 DRAPERY HARDWARE & WINDOW BLINDS & SHADES (56%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010



661 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: Albany Should Proceed With SUNY Reforms

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Albany's Latest Excuse to Shirk Its Duty'' (editorial, July 19):
New York has never had a greater opportunity to adopt real public higher education reforms that will empower the State University of New York to boost the state's economy and lead its economic revitalization. 
While it does not include every provision we have been advocating for with the Public Higher Education Empowerment and Innovation Act, the State Senate's compromise bill would provide much-needed reforms and financial support for our state's university system. Over the last three years, SUNY has sustained 30 percent overall budget cuts totaling more than $635 million while in the last year alone, enrollment grew by 25,000 students.
The proposed changes have tangible merit and enjoy widespread support from a broad coalition of students, faculty, business and community leaders, and legislators. These stakeholders realize the current financing structure is antiquated and inefficient. Only three other states -- South Dakota, Idaho, and Alaska -- restrict their university systems from the key flexibility of varying tuition rates on each campus.
As to the notion that such policies will disenfranchise students with financial need, evidence points to the contrary. The proposed reforms would shield students from sharp fluctuations in tuition levels, including steep increases to cover state budget deficits during times of economic hardship. Furthermore, tuition dollars will be reinvested to protect access through enhanced financial aid for needy students.
It's time to give SUNY more freedom to create a world-class public university system for New York and enhance the future of our state. While the new Senate bill is not our ideal long-term solution, it's a crucial first step that will put SUNY on the path to much-needed autonomy.
Nancy L. Zimpher Chancellor State University of New York Albany, July 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); TUITION FEES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (77%); EDUCATION REFORM (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); BUDGET CUTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010



662 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: The Wealthy Cut Back

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Wealthy Reduce Buying in a Blow to the Recovery'' (front page, July 17) did not mention the most important factor: the uncertainty surrounding potentially major tax increases at year-end. 
The top individual tax rate is scheduled to increase to 39.6 percent from 35 percent on Jan. 1, 2011. And the top rates on capital gains and dividends are scheduled to rise significantly on that date.
There's a good chance that President Obama and Congress will block the scheduled tax increase on Americans who earn less than $200,000, but wealthier taxpayers face dramatically higher rates. Is it any wonder that they have trimmed their spending?
Gregory R. Valliere Washington, July 17, 2010
The writer is chief political strategist at the Potomac Research Group, which provides nonpartisan analysis of economic issues to institutional investors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010



663 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Wedding Is Talk of the Town, Except Nobody's Talking

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO and CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY; Lisa W. Foderaro reported from Rhinebeck, N.Y., and Christine Haughney from New York.

 BODY:
RHINEBECK, N.Y. -- This small town in the Hudson Valley is thrilled that the wedding of the year will be happening here on Saturday. Thrilled -- even though no one can talk about it.
Indeed, you can practically feel the shopkeepers biting their tongues, wishing they could share details of Chelsea Clinton's wedding, which, according to wedding planners, will inspire many copycat choices among brides in the coming year.
Rhinebeck residents are proud that their town, two hours north of New York City, was chosen by Ms. Clinton and her fiance, Marc Mezvinsky, and are quick to tell you that this town is not at all like the Hamptons. No Tiffany on Main Street, no weekenders in high heels. But when it comes to the wedding, talk they cannot. Anyone who has agreed to supply anything, from gift bags to appetizers to the location, signed a confidentiality agreement.
Word is that the serendipitously named Clinton Vineyards, in nearby Clinton Corners, will provide some of the wine: perhaps its award-winning dessert wine called Desire, which is made from blackberries, or its raspberry wine, Embrace. A stricken-sounding employee who answered the phone at the vineyard said, ''We cannot comment on anything to do with the wine and whatever is going on with that.'' 
Ira J. Gutner, who owns Samuel's of Rhinebeck, a coffee bar that sells fine chocolates, knows people who are contributing in some way to the wedding and who have signed confidentiality agreements. But he is not divulging anything. And despite a few leaks here and there about local involvement, for the most part the agreements are being honored.
''It's her wedding, and it's his wedding,'' Mr. Gutner said. ''We want to respect their confidentiality.''
The Clintons have not confirmed that the wedding is being held in Rhinebeck. But its convenient location makes it logical. For the mother of the bride, or M.O.T.B., as Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton has jokingly referred to herself in State Department memos, the appeal of Rhinebeck is plain. The town is 54 miles north (as the crow flies) of her home in Chappaqua, N.Y., allowing for quick dashes to check on details.
The Clintons are trying hard to keep it from being a circus, and so far the people of Rhinebeck are trying to oblige. The local police have already arrested two people -- a Norwegian photographer and a newspaper editor -- for trespassing on the Astor Courts estate, which is assumed to be the location of the wedding.
Designed by Stanford White in 1902 for John Jacob Astor IV, it is a sumptuous Beaux-Arts house on the outskirts of town. The estate's owners, Kathleen Hammer, a generous donor to Mrs. Clinton, and her husband, Arthur Seelbinder, a real estate developer, bought it in 2005 for $3.2 million and spent years on renovations. They put it up for sale last year for $12 million, but took it off the market this month. The two people arrested, Thomas Bjorn Nilsson, 43, of New York, and Kjersti Sortland, 41, of Norway, disregarded ''no trespassing'' signs near the gates to the property, and face 15 days in jail and/or a fine of up to $250 if found guilty, according to Maj. Michael A. Kopy of the New York State Police.
Residents who live close to the presumed ceremony site have been calling the police to complain about trespassers. ''The media are entering on private properties all along the area,'' said Sgt. Peter Dunn of the Village of Rhinebeck Police Department. ''Some of the residents have had multiple reporters on their property on more than one occasion. We advise residents to ask them to leave, and everyone so far has left when they're asked.''
The Rhinebeck Area Chamber of Commerce, in the meantime, has been flooded with calls from people looking for places to stay. ''There are people who are genuinely happy that Chelsea's getting married and that she found somebody, and they want to be part of that in some way,'' said Nancy O. Amy, the chamber's executive director. ''There are curiosity seekers. There are people who want to be part of history.''
But most hotel rooms were snapped up months ago. On a single day in the spring, someone took all 31 rooms at the neo-Classical Belvedere Mansion in nearby Staatsburg. The Beekman Arms, the largest hotel in the village, is fully booked.
Cari Meltzer, the owner of Looking Glass Bed & Breakfast, which has only four rooms, said she was contacted by someone before Easter who asked for several rooms but declined to give the names of the guests. ''She said, 'We'll call two or three days before and give you the names,' '' Mrs. Meltzer said. ''It's very mysterious.''
But all the media attention on local purveyors is just reminding some of them that they have not made the cut. Although it has been widely reported that the restaurant Terrapin will be catering some wedding events, its publicist, Paul Shiavo, denied that. ''We are not involved in any way, shape or form with regard to this wedding,'' he said. ''It was rumor and hearsay, and that's the most I can say about that.''
And, clearly, Mr. Shiavo was disappointed. The Clintons, he said, should have reached out to more local vendors.
''If there's a wedding of this magnitude there, it's going to be a pain,'' he said. ''We would have hoped that if there was a wedding there that they would have used a few more of our local businesses for some of their needs.''
Still, shopkeepers hope the influx of 400 guests and countless journalists from around the world will leave a lasting impact on the town's economy, which has had its fits and starts through the recession.
''The wedding has put the word 'Rhinebeck' into people's minds,'' said Suzanna Hermans, a co-owner of Oblong Books, who drove to work Friday while hearing the flutter of helicopters she said she believed were associated with the wedding. ''Money is still tight around here,'' she said. ''One week to the next is completely different. We're hoping in the long run this will bring people to Rhinebeck.''
Celebrities including Bette Midler, Liam Neeson and Annie Leibovitz have weekend houses in the area, which is filled with horse farms and wineries. ''It's very laid back, but it's a civilized laid back,'' said Gail Saucier, a real estate agent and former bond trader who moved here from Manhattan a few years after 9/11. ''I always joke that I'll stay here until there is a Tiffany on Main Street. Then it will be time to go.'' She and her fellow agents at Better Homes and Gardens Rand Realty ordered up a cream-and-teal banner with the message ''Congrats Chelsea and Marc'' for their storefront on East Market Street. ''Let's welcome them to town,'' she said, ''and hopefully we'll get some sales.''
Correction: July 28, 2010, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Monday about the upcoming wedding of Chelsea Clinton in Rhinebeck, N.Y., misstated the occupation and gender of one of the two Norwegian journalists accused of trespassing on the Astor Courts estate, which is assumed to be the location of the wedding. Kjersti Sortland, a woman, is a newspaper editor -- not a photographer. (The other Norwegian journalist is a photographer.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: As the date for Chelsea Clinton's nuptials neared, Paper Trail, a stationery shop in Rhinebeck, N.Y., displayed a wedding dress. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KELLY SHIMODA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (88%); RETAILERS (72%); POLICE FORCES (70%); REAL ESTATE (64%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



664 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: Iranian Negotiator Agrees to Meet With European Diplomat

BYLINE: By SEBNEM ARSU

 BODY:
ISTANBUL -- In an apparent effort to garner international support for its nuclear program, Iran has agreed to meet with the European Union's foreign affairs chief in early September, after the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. 
Speaking before a lunch on Sunday with his counterparts from Brazil and Iran, Turkey's foreign minister, Ahmet Davutoglu, said that Iran's chief nuclear negotiator, Saeed Jalili, would meet the European Union official, Catherine Ashton, most likely in Istanbul, according to Turkey's semi official Anatolian News Agency.
Ms. Ashton extended the invitation to meet Mr. Jalili last month, after Turkey and Brasil negotiated a nuclear swap deal with Iran that foresees the return of 2,646 pounds of low-enriched uranium to Turkey for 265 pounds of 20 percent-enriched uranium.
Ms. Ashton will represent a group known as the P5+1 nations -- the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council: the United States, Britain, France, Russia and China, plus Germany -- all of which remain highly suspicious of the intent of Iran's nuclear program.
Sunday's meeting with the Iranian foreign minister, Manouchehr Mottaki, and the Brazilian foreign minister, Celso Amorim, was part of their efforts to keep diplomatic channels open in the hope of a resolution, Mr. Davutoglu said.
Tehran will also send a letter to the International Atomic Energy Agency on Monday, asking for the start of technical negotiations necessary for the swap deal, he said.
''We hope that this letter, along with the process that it brings along, will provide the grounds for the diplomatic channel to function stronger,'' Mr. Davutoglu said, according to the Anatolian News Agency.
Turkey and Brazil hailed the swap deal as a major diplomatic victory but it failed to prevent Security Council approval of stronger sanctions against Iran.
Despite strong United States opposition and efforts to create an international bloc against Iran's nuclear program, Turkey, a predominantly Muslim country, has grown closer to Iran over the last eight years under the government of the Justice and Development Party. The Turkish government, which has Islamic roots, supports the right of Iran, the Islamic republic along its eastern border, to develop nuclear energy, although it strictly opposes nuclear weapons in the region.
Iran is Turkey's second largest provider of natural gas, and the two countries have agreed on several other economic, cultural and energy deals.
In May, Turkey signed a deal with Russia to build its first nuclear power plant despite heavy opposition from supporters of alternative energy sources.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); RAMADAN (77%); RELIGION (77%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (75%); POWER PLANTS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); APPROVALS (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (54%)

PERSON: SAEED JALILI (79%); BARONESS ASHTON OF UPHOLLAND (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (93%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) TURKEY (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010



665 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Suite Dreams

BYLINE: By BOB GREENE. 
Bob Greene is the author of ''Late Edition: A Love Story.''

 BODY:
St. Paul
THE kit -- a small mesh bag, reddish-purple in color -- was perched seductively atop the hotel-room bedspread. On one bleary-eyed traveler's most recent visit, identical kits were in every room, not just at this establishment in Minnesota but throughout the hotel chain's far-flung locations, to greet each arriving guest.
Hotels have for decades selected their amenities with the anticipation of travelers' most delicious fantasies in mind. There was the age of sumptuous self-indulgence: shampoos made of mink oil, soaps concocted from coconut, bath gels in multiple fragrances and hues. 
There was the pre-recession era of let-them-eat-cake gluttony: minibars with seven kinds of $8 candy, 24-hour room service offering crab cakes and lobster bisque at 3 a.m., hospitality suites beckoning with finger sandwiches at sundown and beers of the world at bedtime.
The new allurement -- the enticement meant to flutter the secret heart of today's hotel guest, to provide a luxury so lusted-for that it feels almost illicit -- was inside the gauzy bag on the bed: tools and advice on how to achieve that all-but-impossible dream, a decent night's sleep.
There was a pair of noise-blocking earplugs.
A black mask to be worn through the night.
A CD of a detailed lecture by a ''renowned sleep expert.''
A squeeze bottle of lavender linen spray to spritz onto the pillows, imbuing them with a somnolence-inducing scent.
And an instruction sheet, somewhat stern in tone: ''Remember the purpose of the bed. Avoid TV, eating and emotional discussions while in bed ... No drinks after 8 p.m. ... Opt for foods that promote sleep, such as milk, tuna, halibut, pumpkin ....''
There were two oversized plastic clips with which to clamp the curtains shut, in case a sliver of space allowed dreaded illumination into the room.
There was a written guarantee, promising -- swearing -- that wake-up calls would ring at the requested hour, and vowing that if the call were not to come, the night's stay would be free. The guarantee was intended to relieve the guest's anxiety that the wake-up call would be forgotten -- anxiety, the hotel's management had deduced, that could cause restless nights.
None of this was a gag. In American business, nothing happens by coincidence.
Inside that kit, evidently, is what people are hungering for. For years we have been told about the boundless possibilities of an open-all-day-and-all-night world, in which we can instantly connect with others around the clock and around the globe; in which the electronic messages on our handheld devices never stop coming; in which we feel somehow compelled to lurch out of bed hours before dawn to check on Web sites we know are being updated even as we lie awake in the dark. We symbolically shake, like larger versions of tiny cellphones set to the ''vibrate'' function, as we compulsively monitor a universe that never closes its eyes.
Yet in these nerve-jangling times, what we seem to really want, increasingly, is not 24/7 action and data, nor pride in our ability to endlessly multitask, but a night of sound, uninterrupted slumber. In 2008, 56 million sleeping-pill prescriptions were written, up 54 percent from 2004. Doctors say they are dealing with more than 80 separate sleep disorders. Something fundamental seems to have gone wrong.
At one time, the stereotype of a business traveler checking into a hotel in a distant city was a boisterous fellow with wine, women and song on his mind. Now the universal craving that hotels seek to satisfy is for something considerably more urgent: a night of true, deep shuteye, with no distractions.
Except, of course, for the didactic voice of the sleep expert on the CD player: ''Tense the muscles in your left foot by pointing your toes and curling them.'' Or the too-taut feeling of the blackout mask tethered tightly to your face.
And, wait a minute -- what if those hotel-issued earplugs prevent you from hearing your guaranteed wake-up call? Now, there's a thought to jolt you upright in bed, soaked with sweat and sleepless.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASON LOGAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (78%); TOILET SOAPS (75%); HOTEL CHAINS (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (68%); SLEEP (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



666 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Botanical Gardens' New Face Is More Than Flower Shows

BYLINE: By JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI

 BODY:
For the last quarter century, the Cleveland Botanical Garden went all out for its biennial Flower Show, the largest outdoor garden show in North America. With themed gardens harking back to the Roman empire, or an 18th-century English estate, the event would draw 25,000 to 30,000 visitors.
But in 2009, the Flower Show was postponed and then abandoned when the botanical garden could not find sponsors. This year, the garden has different plans. From Sept. 24 to 26, it is inaugurating the ''RIPE! Food & Garden Festival,'' which celebrates the trend of locally grown food -- and is supported in part by the Cleveland Clinic and Heinen's, a supermarket chain.
''The Flower Show may come back someday, but it's not where people are these days,'' says Natalie Ronayne, the garden's executive director. ''Food is an easier sell.'' 
So it is across the country. Botanical gardens are experiencing an identity crisis, with chrysanthemum contests, horticultural lectures and garden-club ladies, once their main constituency, going the way of manual lawn mowers. Among the long-term factors diminishing their traditional appeal are fewer women at home and less interest in flower-gardening among younger fickle, multitasking generations.
Forced to rethink and rebrand, gardens are appealing to visitors' interests in nature, sustainability, cooking, health, family and the arts. Some are emphasizing their social role, erecting model green buildings, promoting wellness and staying open at night so people can mingle over cocktails like the Pollinator (green tea liqueur, soda water and Sprite). A few are even inviting in dogs (and their walkers) free or, as in Cleveland, with a canine admission charge ($2).
''We're not just looking for gardeners anymore,'' says Mary Pat Matheson, the executive director of the Atlanta Botanical Garden. ''We're looking for people who go to art museums and zoos.''
In May, the Atlanta garden opened an attraction that would fit right in at a jungle park: a ''canopy walk'' that twists and turns for 600 feet at a height of up to 45 feet, allowing visitors to trek through the treetops. Not far away, food enthusiasts can stop in at a new edible garden, with an outdoor kitchen frequently staffed by guest chefs creating dishes with fresh, healthy ingredients. Edible gardens are the fastest-growing trend at botanical gardens, consistently increasing attendance, experts say, along with cooking classes.
Attendance in Atlanta since May is double what it was for the same period last year.
Public gardens across the country receive about 70 million visits a year, according to the American Public Gardens Association. But experts say that because of social trends and changing demographics, attendance is at risk if gardens do not change.
They can, however, take advantage of several trends that could increase garden attendance, including concern for the environment, interest in locally grown food, efforts to reduce childhood obesity, demand for family activities and mania for interactive entertainment. Even economic pressures could help botanical gardens, as more people try to grow their own food. In 2009, 35 percent of American households had some kind of food garden, up from 31 percent in 2008, says Bruce Butterfield, research director of the National Gardening Association. Only 31 percent participated in flower gardening in 2009, about the same proportion as in the last few years.
''There's a generation that will be less interested in gardens,'' says Daniel J. Stark, executive director of the public gardens association, ''but that generation is incredibly interested in what's happening with the planet. Recently, my own two daughters, and a friend, were reading me the riot act about cutting down some trees.''
Mr. Stark's daughters are 4 and 8.
Some tactics designed to entice nongardening Americans are not new, of course -- sculpture and concerts have been around for years -- but their popularity is growing. The New York Botanical Garden, for example, is drawing big crowds with its current tribute to the poet Emily Dickinson, who was also a gardener.
The new exhibition at the United States Botanic Garden in Washington features ''the spectacular spud family,'' with potato-related artifacts, music and bits of pop culture, especially the endurance of Mr. Potato Head.
And children's gardens are growing more whimsical and interactive, says Sharilyn Ingram, a former president of the Royal Botanical Gardens in Canada who is now a culture professor at Brock University in Ontario. ''You get to have a little more fun now,'' she said.
When the Coastal Maine Botanical Garden, in Boothbay, opened its $1.7 million, two-acre children's garden this month, it came with a chicken coop, where children can harvest eggs, and a windmill weather station.
In Wyoming, at the Cheyenne Botanic Gardens, the new children's village has adopted sustainability as its theme. It includes a solar-powered discovery laboratory where children can make art from reused materials, a feature that helped it win the highest level of Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification.
Teenagers in Cleveland are learning how to grow corn and zucchini on urban plots.
Because of environmental concerns, Descanso Gardens, near Los Angeles, is doing the once-unthinkable: it plans to uproot its historic -- but nonnative -- collection of camellias, some as tall as 30 feet, which were planted decades ago under the shade of natural woodlands. ''It's a fantasy forest,'' says Brian Sullivan, the director of horticulture and garden operations.
But the fantasy cannot be sustained. Camellias require so much water that it is killing the trees -- not to mention being wasteful. Descanso will relocate the camellias, even though some will be lost, and allow the woodlands to return to their native state. ''We expect opposition and kudos both,'' Mr. Sullivan said.
But Descanso still must reach out beyond its aging membership group, he added, so it is remaining open in the evening; offering cocktails (including the Pollinator) at a new Camellia Lounge; breaking ground on a $2.1 million art gallery whose exterior walls will be hung with vertical plant trays that will blend into a turf roof; and maintaining an edible garden dense with fruits, vegetables and herbs that are donated to a local food bank.
Food festivals are becoming a large part of the year-round programming that gardens view as important to winning repeat visitors. In January, the Fairchild Tropical Botanic Garden in Coral Gables, Fla., drew some 12,000 people to its fourth International Chocolate Festival with Coffee and Tea. It was followed in April with a local food festival, and this month with a mango festival. In November comes its annual Ramble, a garden party featuring antiques and music.
Yes, Fairchild also has an orchid festival.
But showcasing flowers is clearly shrinking in importance. ''Most gardens,'' Ms. Ingram, the Canadian professor, said, ''would feel that displaying flowers is necessary, but not sufficient.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hours at the Camillia Lounge at the Descanso Gardens have been extended in a bid to attract more customers to the gardens. The Cleveland Botanical Garden, left, has constructed a ''learning farm'' for the same reason. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JONATHAN ALCORN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
KEN BLAZE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Chocolate-covered strawberries were sold at a festival. (A10)
Jazz Monde serving a Pollinator, a signature cocktail offered at the Camellia Lounge at Descanso Gardens. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ALCORN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Gardens are trying new things to lure visitors. The Fairchild Tropical Botanic Garden has featured Indian dancers. The Atlanta Botanical Garden has built a walkway among trees. (PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF GABRIELA ORIHUELA, FAIRCHILD TROPICAL BOTANIC GARDEN
 COURTESY OF ERICA GEORGE DINES/ATLANTA BOTANICAL GARDEN) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOTANICAL GARDENS (90%); HORTICULTURE (90%); GARDENING (90%); TRENDS (89%); DOGS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); SOFT DRINKS (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



667 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: Demand Up, FedEx Raises Profit Outlook

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The FedEx Corporation, the package delivery company, raised its earnings outlook for the current quarter and full year on Monday, citing an increase in demand for shipping.
The company said a boom in air and truck shipments was being driven by its international priority service, which ships high-value goods like computers, iPhones and e-readers. Shipments are particularly strong out of Asia. 
Besides gadgets, the company's next-largest international priority segments are electrical components like disk drives and flash memory, vehicle components, luxury goods and drugs and medical supplies.
International priority shipments are expected to increase 20 percent this quarter.
Because of its renewed optimism in its business, the company said it would fully reinstate the company match for 401(k) plans across the company on Jan. 1. FedEx rescinded the match when the economy was near its worst point, and said it would reinstate a 50 percent match for most employees in the United States late last year. The cost of the move is included in the company's new earnings forecast.
The company expects to earn $1.05 to $1.25 a share in its first fiscal quarter, which ends Aug. 31, up from 58 cents a share a year earlier. The forecast is up from its previous guidance of 85 cents to $1.05 a share. Analysts expected $1.01 a share.
For the full fiscal year ending in May, FedEx expects earnings of $4.60 to $5.20 a share, up from its earlier guidance of $4.40 to $5 a share, reflecting the current market outlook for fuel prices and a continued moderate recovery in the global economy. Analysts expected earnings of $4.98.
The company reported earnings of $3.76 a share last year.
The company said its volume growth rates are running on pace with the fiscal fourth quarter, which ended in May. In that period, international priority average daily shipments grew by 23 percent.
Shares of FedEx, which is based in Memphis, rose $4.43, or 5.61 percent, to $83.39 on Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (92%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (90%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SHIPMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (69%); US 401K PLANS (69%)

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (93%)

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (93%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (93%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



668 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Lake's Views and Revenue Yield to Muck and Fears

BYLINE: By CHRISTINA CAPECCHI

 BODY:
DELHI, Iowa -- What was a sparkling lake last week is now a muddy graveyard. The skeletons are mangled white boatlifts wedged in rocky sandbars.
After heavy rains forced a dam break over the weekend, people here in eastern Iowa were coming to grips on Monday with the jarring reality that their beloved lake was gone. Lake Delhi, a popular getaway in Delaware County surrounded by waterfront vacation homes, had drained itself to a stream.
The water on the west side of the dam, which was a quarter-mile wide last week, spanned 100 feet on Monday, according to Jeff Driscoll, a state trooper. He said it had dropped a foot in four hours that day. 
Now the lakefront homes look out over acres of muck.
''The lake's pretty much dead,'' said Mike Beatty, 54, who lived here 29 years and was hours from closing on the sale of his uninsured home when the flood destroyed it. ''It's just a creek, basically. It's a sickening feeling knowing that you basically lost everything.''
When the Lake Delhi dam burst, so did a thriving tourism industry for the region. The nine-mile, 450-acre lake was rimmed by 900 homes and vacation cabins. Most of the owners came from outside the county.
On summer weekends, Lake Delhi (pronounced DEL-high) drew about 3,000 people, said Jim Willey, president of the Lake Delhi Recreation Association. Visitors traveled from other states to sit at its shore, said Beverly Rahe, assistant director of Delaware County Economic Development. ''It's a beautiful place,'' she said. ''It was absolutely beautiful.''
The lake generated about 10 percent of the county's tax base, which last year totaled $24.9 million, Jodi Cahalan, a county assessor, said.
Chris Stender, 42, whose home and marina on the lake were damaged by the flood, said he considered that estimate low. No matter, it is hard, he said, to put a price tag on his life and livelihood. ''There's no way I'll make it with no work and no water,'' he said.
About 100 boaters entered the lake from his marina each summer weekend, Mr. Stender said. Now he is getting calls asking to have boats prepared for the winter. ''Maybe there'll be water next year,'' he said.
Tina Maloney, 38, owner of the Pizza Place on the north side of Lake Delhi, said she usually sold 300 pizzas on a Friday night in the summer. She said she was expecting to lose 80 percent of that business, adding, ''I'm scared.''
One of her employees hung two green signs on Monday that read, ''We are open!''
Thousands of fish have been flushed out by the lake's rapid drop -- largemouth bass, bluegills, crappie and channel catfish -- said Dave Marolf, the fisheries biologist and hatchery manager at the state's Manchester Trout Hatchery. If the dam were rebuilt, he said, the Iowa Department of Natural Resources would be responsible for restocking the lake.
Whether it will be rebuilt is unclear. The dam is privately owned by the Lake Delhi Recreation Association, but the road above it, which the flood obliterated, is county property.
''All we have today is rumors, and they range from yes to no,'' Mr. Marolf said.
Some locals were skeptical.
''I think there will be a fight with the environmentalists and the corps of engineers, and I don't think it'll be fixed five years from now -- if at all,'' said Billie Zumbach, 58, a bookkeeper from Coggon. ''Some rare species will be found, and there'll be a dispute. There'll be months of haggling. That's just the way it is.''
Others were more hopeful that the lake would be revived. Marcheta Cooey, 81, a widow who is a retired resort owner, is the second of five generations to enjoy Lake Delhi. It has been home her entire life and is part of her identity, she said as she filed her fingernails.
''I'm positive they'll fix it,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Lake Delhi dam broke Saturday, leaving the future of an Iowa vacation spot uncertain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN MALLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); LAKES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); WEATHER (77%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COUNTIES (71%); TAX ASSESSORS (62%); TOURISM (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



669 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Early Signs of a Hotel Rebound

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
The hotel industry in the United States appears to be rebounding this summer, mainly because of strengthening business travel.
So far the biggest beneficiary is New York, though other cities on the East Coast are starting to report gains as well. And the upscale, full-service hotels that have long been favored by business travelers have benefited more from the upturn in demand than the midlevel brands, industry analysts say.
The rebound, said Mark V. Lomanno, president of Smith Travel Research of Hendersonville, Tenn., is ''top-down.'' The more expensive hotels, he said, ''are recovering the fastest, and will continue to do so this summer, as business travelers come back.'' 
With hotel occupancies rising, room rates have started stabilizing, according to Smith Travel Research. The rates remain substantially below their peak, reached in September 2008. And occupancy rates, in general, are also far below their peak: the average is now 55.8 percent, down from a high of 63.1 percent in November 2007.
Still, in New York now and probably in other cities in the fall, business travelers will no longer be able to count on getting cheap rates at preferred hotels at the last minute and will have to book further in advance to stay where they want.
Bjorn Hanson, dean of the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University, estimated that hotel occupancies in the United States would rise to 63.5 percent from June through August, compared with 60 percent in the same period last year.
He described the increase as ''dramatic,'' adding: ''Typically, the movement would be 1 percent. There is not normally a robust business travel recovery during the summer.''
Mr. Hanson estimated that the number of hotel rooms occupied by both business travelers and groups would be 6 to 7 percent higher this summer than last, while the rooms occupied by leisure travelers would rise slightly less, 5 to 6 percent. He attributed the increase in business travel to a stronger economy, and the improvement in leisure travel to greater confidence in the economy and ''the expectation that rates will start to increase, and that this is a great time to take advantage of them.''
Mr. Lomanno also said he expected more improvement in business travel than in leisure travel. But, he added, leisure travel ''did not fall as far as business travel.''
He estimated that average room rates paid by business travelers would be only 1 or 2 percent higher this summer than last, while rates paid by leisure travelers would rise 3 to 4 percent.
But, he said, some East Coast cities are outpacing the overall industry recovery. He pointed to Boston, Washington and Philadelphia, where he expects rates paid by individual business and leisure travelers to increase 1 to 3 percent this summer over last summer.
Those increases, though, will be even greater in New York, he said. He predicted that room rates there paid by individual travelers who book at the last minute would be 10 to 15 percent higher this summer than they were in 2009.
''The East Coast is recovering more than the West Coast,'' Mr. Lomanno said. ''I don't know why. New York is driven more by the financial community, and it's recovered rather nicely.''
He said travelers would ''need to book 7 to 10 days out.''
He also said that although New York hotel rates were up significantly over last year, they were still 10 to 15 percent lower than their peak in mid-2008.
Mr. Lomanno said room rate increases comparable to those in New York were likely in Boston, Washington and Miami in the fall, and in Los Angeles and San Francisco later in the year.
Henry H. Harteveldt, travel analyst for Forrester Research, also said he anticipated higher room rates. ''The sweetheart deals of 2009 are gone,'' he said. ''Hotels now are more aggressive in revenue management, and are closing out lower price points as quickly as they can, especially in markets popular with business and leisure travelers in the summer, like New York and Boston.''
But the improvements in demand are not across the board.
Carl T. Berquist, chief financial officer of Marriott International, said that revenue per available room at company-operated hotels in North America under the Ritz-Carlton brand, one of 18 Marriott brands, was up 15.9 percent in the second quarter. But he said limited-service Marriott brands, like Residence Inn and Courtyard, ''are not coming back as fast,'' in part because they generally do not accommodate groups.
In a report issued earlier in July, Steven Kent, lodging analyst for Goldman Sachs, wrote that ''group and conference/convention activity is accelerating.'' He added: ''Wherever we look, we see better group business. Group business is important, because even though it accounts for 35 percent to 45 percent of a full-service hotel room demand, it is set far in advance. When rooms are set aside for a conference, hotel managers can afford to wait for the high-paying, last-minute transient traveler.''
One widespread phenomenon this summer is definitely benefiting business travelers: loyalty program offers that give participants one free night after a certain number of stays. Companies that are extending these include Carlson, Omni, Starwood and Best Western.
The timing and prevalence of such offers are new, said Tim Winship, publisher of FrequentFlier.com. ''Hotels have so many available rooms, it's been a real bonanza for anyone who stays often in them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The lobby of the Hilton New York hotel last week. Travelers should not count on last-minute availability. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCUS YAM/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); LODGING (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LEISURE TRAVEL (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (73%); SPORTS BUSINESS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



670 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Retailers Pay More to Get Cargo (No Guarantee)

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
The grills shaped like kegs and toolboxes, ordered for a Father's Day promotion at Cost Plus World Market, arrived too late for the holiday. At the Container Store, platinum-color hangers, advertised in a summer sale catalog, were delivered days after the sale began. At True Value Hardware, the latecomers were fans and portable chairs.
Fighting for freight, retailers are outbidding each other to score scarce cargo space on ships, paying two to three times last year's freight rates -- in some cases, the highest rates in five years. And still, many are getting merchandise weeks late.
The problems stem from 2009, when stores slashed inventory. With little demand for shipping, ocean carriers took ships out of service: more than 11 percent of the global shipping fleet was idle in spring 2009, according to AXS-Alphaliner, an industry consultant. 
Carriers also moved to ''slow steaming,'' traveling at slower and more fuel-efficient speeds, while the companies producing containers, the typically 20- or 40-foot boxes in which most consumer companies ship goods, essentially stopped making them.
''All my customers, they're having a terrible time,'' said Steven L. Horton, principal at Horton Global Strategies, which negotiates freight contracts for companies. ''With the increased cost and them not knowing if they're even going to get the space or equipment, it's a weekly battle.''
Retailers and suppliers like Mattel, Polo Ralph Lauren, Jones Apparel Group, Costco, the VF Corporation, Big Lots and Lifetime Brands have reported being hit with higher prices and capacity shortages.
The fight for space means many retailers are expecting higher sales, which is a glimmer of good news. And air carriers are picking up some last-minute shipments from desperate retailers; FedEx reported on Monday that it expected increased earnings for its first quarter, ending next month.
But for most retailers and suppliers, the shipping problems are a huge headache at a time when retail sales are weak and consumer confidence is waning. ''It's made this key selling season even more complicated,'' said Edward J. Yruma, an analyst with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
The shipping companies slowly added ships back into the system early this year, but they did so haltingly, not wanting to add too much supply and risk having their rates fall. (Major carriers largely hew to the rates set by carrier groups, which are allowed to discuss and setvoluntary rates, under antitrust immunity.) Lifetime Brands, which makes and sells products under brand names like Cuisinart and KitchenAid, said it was now paying about double last year's rates, and Costco said it was now back to 2007 rates.
Companies that lack contracts with shippers are paying even more. The cost of shipping a 40-foot container from Hong Kong to Los Angeles without a contract, or the spot rate, was about $871 in July 2009, a five-year low. This month, that spot rate reached $2,624, a five-year high, according to the industry consultant Drewry Shipping Consultants, as reported by The Journal of Commerce. That exceeded even the cost before the recession, which was about $2,000.
Because of slow steaming, which takes containers out of the system for a longer period of time, and because places like Russia and India began to demand container space, finding something to ship goods in, much less space on a ship, has been problematic.
''There aren't enough actual containers, so therefore, even if the vessel capacity situation is easing up a little bit,'' said Peter Tirschwell, senior vice president for strategy at The Journal of Commerce, ''you now have equipment that people can't get.''
(While container shipping has recovered from last year's lower spot prices, commodity shipping, where companies ship raw goods like iron ore or petroleum, remains in a depression. This month, the Baltic Dry Index, which measures commodity shipping costs, fell for the longest number of consecutive days in almost nine years because of low demand for materials like steel.)
The problems in container shipping from Asia are the most pronounced, retailers say, but shipments from other continents, and via domestic trains and trucks, are difficult as well. The effects have been severe for some retailers and suppliers.
To get products in on time, they need to spend a lot more. Cost Plus, for instance, has used air freight for some time-sensitive items, and that costs about 10 times what sea freight does, said Jeff Turner, who oversees supply chain and store operations. And for sea cargo, even though contracts with freight companies exempt Cost Plus from summer surcharges, known as peak-season surcharges, the retailer is paying them.
''We have agreements that literally say we don't have peak-season surcharges for our business, but we're treading completely new ground. Our carriers are coming to us and saying, 'If you want to get on the vessels, we need to figure out how you guys pay peak-season surcharges,' '' Mr. Turner said.
Mona Williams, vice president for buying at the Container Store, said the company was telling manufacturers to book space well in advance, and that it was moving delivery dates earlier.
And for items that simply must arrive, well, there are ways to do it. ''Sometimes you can offer to pay a steamship company a larger amount of money, and they might take somebody else's container and not put it on,'' said Jeffrey Siegel, the chief executive of Lifetime Brands, but ''in most cases, you just have to wait.''
To play it safe, Mr. Siegel has started scheduling items to arrive as long as three months before they need to be in stores. That means a higher cost for holding inventory than usual, but interest rates are relatively low, and he would rather have the goods in hand, he said.
The companies also risk losing sales if anything is late.
For instance, Cost Plus, a home decor chain with more than 260 stores nationwide, had to quickly revise advertising and in-store arrangements when it learned grills would be late for Father's Day, and beach chairs would arrive after a summer promotion ended. ''You're trying to convince your customers to take a rain check -- 'It's coming' -- or explain why it's not there,'' Mr. Turner said. ''It's not easy.''
For True Value, which had difficulty getting summer items like fans and grills on time, the worry was not about the retail customer, but about the stores it supplied.
''True Value stores can buy from other wholesale distributors, so they can look elsewhere,'' said Don Deegan, vice president for logistics for True Value. The company has bought more expensive items when it knew it would miss a deadline, he said, to placate the stores.
Steve Walterscheid, the president of Zing Toys, which makes some summer toys, said that after his orders kept getting bumped from ships, some retailers would not take the late deliveries. ''Some will still accept it, some won't,'' he said. ''In a short season, if you miss two weeks of a season, that's quite a bit.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: When demand for freight dropped, carriers cut capacity. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRUTH LEEM/REUTERS) (A1)
 The Port of Baltimore on Monday. Chains are moving up delivery dates to get items in time. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT ROTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) CHART: Rising Cost of Shipping: The cost to ship one standard 40-foot-long container from Hong Kong to Los Angeles has tripled since last year. (Source: Drewry Shipping Consultants, via The Journal of Commerce) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); BRANDING (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (75%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (74%); AIRLINES (71%); SALES PROJECTIONS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); IMMUNITY (65%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%)

COMPANY: VF CORP (66%); FEDEX CORP (65%); TRUE VALUE CO (58%); JONES GROUP INC (54%); LIFETIME BRANDS INC (54%)

TICKER: VFC (NYSE) (66%); FDX (NYSE) (65%); JNY (NYSE) (54%); LCUT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS315190 OTHER APPAREL KNITTING MILLS (66%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (65%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (65%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (65%); NAICS444130 HARDWARE STORES (58%); NAICS424950 PAINT, VARNISH & SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); SIC5083 FARM & GARDEN MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (58%); SIC5072 HARDWARE (58%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3469 METAL STAMPINGS, NEC (54%); SIC3421 CUTLERY (54%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



671 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: As Unknown Faces Become Stars, Reality Shows Fight Pay Escalation

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
Snooki had kissed The Situation, Ronnie had hugged Sammi goodbye and the cameras had stopped rolling. Last summer, ''Jersey Shore'' wasn't yet a runaway hit; it was just another reality show in the works for MTV. Nonetheless, the show's executive producer, SallyAnn Salsano, sat the young cast members down and gave them each a gift -- and a warning.
''Don't lose sight of who you are,'' she said, reminding them that she and MTV had been there at the outset.
Fame soon found them, and so did the desire for fortune. This summer, the stars of ''Jersey Shore'' held out for more money before resuming production in Seaside Heights last week. Together, they shared about $25,000 as a cast for the entire first season; now they will reportedly earn at least that much for each episode. The series will resume Thursday night on MTV, part of Viacom. 
Reality television became a force because viewers liked it and because, without celebrities or big salaries, it was cheap. The shows can cost as little as $200,000 for a half-hour episode, compared with the $1 million or more typical for hourlong scripted shows.
But now the genre is creating its own stars on shows like ''Jersey Shore,'' ''The City'' on MTV and the ''Real Housewives'' franchise on Bravo. With stars come demands for higher salaries, threatening the inexpensive economic model of reality TV. Are the shows falling victim to their own success?
Network executives say no, but they concede they are constantly on guard against that possibility. They strive to make shows grow proportionally: as the salaries grow, the ratings and the rates paid by advertisers must grow in lockstep. When the proportions break down, cancellation can loom.
''There can be a time when a show prices itself out of profitability,'' said Chris Linn, executive vice president for MTV production. The reality show ''The Hills,'' which ended last month after six seasons, seems like a case study of those proportions breaking down; its stars, plucked from obscurity, were collecting six-figure paychecks near the end, yet the show's ratings were sinking. Mr. Linn, however, said no show had been canceled because it had ''priced itself out'' in his six years at MTV.
''When a show's production costs are reaching that point, we'll look for a way to reinvent that show or look for other efficiencies,'' he said in a telephone interview. Last year, one of the stars of ''The Hills,'' Whitney Port, was given her own show, ''The City,'' which MTV is weighing whether to renew.
It might seem that the starlets and the housewives of the ''Hills'' hold all the cards; their personalities are the reasons that millions of viewers tune in.
''In scripted, as a producer, you have the ability to write a character out. But in reality, your talent often is the show, so they have a greater ability to use nonperformance as a lever to extract a better deal,'' said Michael Hirschorn, a former VH1 executive who now runs a production company, Ish Entertainment.
When shows like ''Jersey Shore'' begin, they are essentially just experiments, and the average Joe cast members are paid accordingly. One cable executive privately characterized the initial salaries as ''bubkes.''
After the season one finale of ''Jersey Shore'' was watched by a startlingly high 4.8 million viewers in the dead of winter, MTV immediately promised $10,000 an episode to the cast.
They retreated to South Beach last spring to tape the second season, but when it came time to film the second half of the season back in Seaside Heights, where the series was originally set, newly appointed agents for the cast members insisted on another set of raises.
The deal-making played out in the celebrity press, with some stars reportedly saying that they could make more money by hosting parties at clubs than by showing up for the TV tapings. MTV now calls the current Seaside Heights taping Season Three.
Some cast members apparently have grand ambitions. The Situation, a. k. a. Mike Sorrentino, was quoted in The Daily Beast Web site last week as saying that he had his eye on Hollywood, mentioning ''Dancing With the Stars,'' meetings with movie studios and ''people calling for sitcoms.''
MTV declined to comment on contractual details, and the network said the cast members were not available for interviews.
Ms. Salsano clearly feels that the cast members need the exposure the TV show provides.
''The benefit is not the money they make from being on the show,'' she said. ''The benefit is they've all got so many amazing opportunities because of the show. They come here for a month; the show's on for four months; and when the show's airing, that's when they're having their heyday, if you will.''
Bravo encourages the stars of its ''Housewives'' shows to talk up their side projects in interviews. ''We try to do well by them, and they know that they can do well with us,'' said Andy Cohen, a senior vice president at Bravo, a unit of NBC Universal.
For Mr. Cohen, the crucial word is ''ensemble.'' He and other executives assert that almost any reality cast member is expendable, even if the person has been on a show for multiple seasons. Some housewives have departed because of financial disputes with Bravo -- ''I think it's happened a couple times,'' Mr. Cohen said -- and the producers have successfully replaced them.
''And we're always casting in every city,'' Mr. Cohen added.
That said, Bravo just started its first ''Housewives'' spin-off that features just one woman, Bethenny Frankel, getting married and having a baby. Doesn't a show centered on one person pose more of a risk? ''We're very careful with that,'' Mr. Cohen said, declining to elaborate.
After the first season of a reality show, networks tend to set salaries on a sliding scale, and some offer bonuses based on ratings. Add security and transportation costs, and production budgets can soar.
At the peak of ''Jon & Kate Plus 8,'' TLC was paying the supersize family $22,500 an episode, according to Jon Gosselin, who was sued by the network, which accused him of breaching his contract. The show fizzled last year when the lead characters split up.
That would seem like a cautionary tale to reality stars everywhere. Ms. Salsano said ''Jersey Shore'' members should not forget what a gift the show is. It will keep going, she said, ''as long as the kids stay true to who they are.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jenni Farley, left, and Nicole Polizzi, members of the cast of ''Jersey Shore'' on MTV, during the filming of the show in Miami Beach. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF DALY/PICTUREGROUP) (B1)
Bethenny Frankel, who was a member of the cast of ''The Real Housewives of New York City,'' is now the star of her own show. From left, Stephanie Pratt, Lauren Bosworth and Audrina Patridge of ''The Hills'' and Julissa Bermudez, an MTV host, after the show's season finale on July 13. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREI JACKAMETS/BRAVO
 JOHN SHEARER/GETTY IMAGES FOR MTV.COM) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); CELEBRITIES (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (72%); CASE STUDIES (60%)

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (56%)

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); MIAMI, FL, USA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Jersey Shore (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



672 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Sales of New Single-Family Homes Soared in June

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Sales of new single-family homes rebounded strongly in June from the previous month's record low, pushing the inventory of new houses on the market to the lowest level in nearly 42 years, according to government data released Monday.
But downward revisions to sales estimates for April and May left in place a picture of a weak housing market and perceptions that economic growth moderated somewhat in the second quarter. 
New-home sales rose 23.6 percent, to an annual rate of 330,000 units, the data, released jointly by the United States Census Bureau and the Housing and Human Development Department said. Still, the sales rate last month was the second-lowest since the department began compiling the figures in 1963.
''We can't take too much joy in one month's figure,'' said Jennifer H. Lee, a senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. ''The roadblocks to a healthy housing market are high, the most important one being the still-high jobless rate.''
The percentage increase last month was the largest since May 1980, and it partly unwound May's 36.7 percent drop. Analysts polled by Reuters had forecast new-home sales rising to a 320,000 unit rate last month from May's previously reported 300,000 units.
Recent data have suggested the economy's recovery from its longest and deepest recession since the 1930s slowed in recent months. While economists expect weak housing activity to act as a drag on growth for much of the year, they say they do not believe this would be enough on its own to set off a double-dip recession.
''It's not going to affect the economy that much,'' said Patrick Newport, an economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington, Mass. ''It's more the economy affecting the housing market. What we need is for the economy to start creating jobs.''
Data last week showed home construction fell to an eight-month low in June, while sales of existing homes were the lowest in three months.
Housing's share of the economy has shrunk in recent years, and residential construction accounted for about 2.4 percent of gross domestic product in the first quarter.
The report suggested that the housing market might be close to working through the distortions after the end of a popular homebuyer tax credit in April, an incentive that pulled sales forward.
As a result of last month's surge in sales, the supply of new homes available for sale fell to 7.6 months' worth, from 9.6 months' worth in May. The number of new homes on the market dropped 1.4 percent, to 210,000 units, the lowest level since September 1968.
''Progress is being made in reducing the excess inventory, which is crucial for the outlook for prices,'' said Paul Dales, a United States economist at Capital Economics in Toronto. ''However, new-home sales make up just 5 percent of all sales. And the post-tax credit fall-off in activity has yet to fully show up in existing sales. Total home sales have, therefore, yet to hit rock bottom.''
The median sale price for a new home fell 1.4 percent last month, to $213,400. In the 12 months to June, prices dipped 0.6 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A home being built in Richmond, Va. Although sales rose last month, economists say the sector is still a drag on the economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE HELBER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: New-Home Sales: Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.
 Prices of New Homes: Median price for new homes. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (96%); REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); CENSUS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); JOB CREATION (71%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (56%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



673 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Defining China With 5 Symbols

BYLINE: By JOHN FOLEY

 BODY:
For China, July could be called ''the month of five symbols.'' The demographic, financial and monetary milestones give insight into the future of the world's third-biggest economy. With them in mind, investors might want to think five times about how they proceed.
1. The population got older: China is aging at its fastest rate ever, state media said in July, based on new data from 2009. Almost a fifth of the population will be ''aged'' -- defined as over 65 years old -- by 2050, up from less than a twentieth in 1950, says the Asian Development Bank. That matters because it means the working-age population will shrink. It could also drain savings as the elderly tap their nest eggs. 
This would be a major reversal. China still has a young, high-saving population. And despite some signs of wage pressure in a few cities, there is still a significant supply of underemployed labor around the country. But the risk is that a big demographic shift might make it hard to keep up its 10 percent G.D.P. growth for the next few decades. A surplus of old people and a shortage of youth mean China might get old before it gets rich.
2. Henan Province got bigger: The population of China's biggest province by headcount passed 100 million in July, according to official estimates. A formal census will be carried out later this year. Henan, 20 percent poorer on a G.D.P. per-capita basis than the country as a whole, has more people than Germany, France or Britain. And without China's one-child policy, this landmark would have arrived 13 years ago.
Population and increasing prosperity help shape China's trade flows -- after all, that's a lot of hungry mouths to feed. It is no accident that Argentina, where China recently announced co-investment on $10 billion in railway projects, is its biggest supplier of soybean oil. Chinese companies on the acquisition trail already covet iron and coal, but fertilizer and foodstuffs are likely to follow.
3. China's export engine revved back up: Falling exports led China into trouble in 2008 and now rising exports may do the same. Exports returned to ''precrisis'' levels, Beijing confirmed this month, with year-on-year growth of more than 40 percent in the year so far. Policy makers are trying to tamp down domestic demand to prevent the economy from going into inflationary overdrive.
That may reopen wounds that appeared cauterized after the United States decided against labeling China a ''currency manipulator,'' a label that can lead to trade sanctions. Now the United States trade gap has widened to its monthly highest since 2008, helped by a 12 percent rise in Chinese imports. China's export engine once again looks like an appealing scapegoat.
4. China's energy needs exploded: China surpassed the United States as the world's biggest consumer of energy in 2009, according to the International Energy Agency, using the equivalent of 2.3 billion tons of oil. The Middle Kingdom disputed the timing, but not the inevitability, of the title. It was already the world's biggest importer of resources.
The implications are nightmarish. China uses a quarter of the energy the United States does per capita. Does that mean its world-beating emissions could be four times what they are today? Probably not; China is investing heavily in clean technology. But such statistics should help talk up prices of energy-related commodities and assets for some time to come.
5. Banks broke yet another record: The Agricultural Bank of China pulled off a $19 billion initial public offering in Shanghai and Hong Kong, which if its overallotment option is exercised will be the world's biggest at $22 billion. That helped China beat another record: it hosted all of the world's three largest I.P.O. markets by value this year to date, showing the center of gravity for new stocks has shifted decisively east.
The supremacy isn't quite the real deal. AgBank epitomizes the country's state-governed, stop-start capital markets. Similar-sized I.P.O.'s will be harder to find. But AgBank and its underwriters doggedly pursued the superlative of ''world's biggest.'' In China, big numbers really matter.
Indeed, of all numbers, the most mystically powerful in Beijing might be one. China wants to be the world leader in almost everything. One day that, too, will probably come to pass. JOHN FOLEY
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: China's population is aging at a faster rate, which could slow G.D.P. growth. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEFEN CHOW/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (62%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (55%)

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (70%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%)

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (78%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); HENAN, CHINA (73%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



674 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Europe Toughens Penalties On Iran for Nuclear Work

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- The European Union intensified the economic isolation of Iran over its nuclear program by ordering its toughest economic sanctions yet against the Iranian government on Monday. European energy companies and insurers affected by the new controls promised to comply.
Although European companies will still be allowed to import oil and gas from Iran, the sanctions go beyond those in the fourth round imposed by the United Nations last month. The European move follows the imposition of additional sanctions by the United States. 
Meant as punishment for Iran's refusal to halt its enrichment of uranium, the measures appeared to prompt a flurry of diplomatic activity, with Iran saying it was ready to return to talks on a nuclear fuel swap. But it was unclear whether the offer was anything more than another in a series of maneuvers by Tehran to buy more time. Western nations suspect Iran is trying to build a nuclear weapon; the country insists that its nuclear program is peaceful and that sanctions will not persuade it to change course.
While American investment in Iran has dwindled over recent years, the European Union, with 27 member nations, is Iran's largest trading partner, taking in a third of its exports and selling it billions of dollars in goods and services.
That means that the measures could have a significant impact, though it was too early to determine the financial effect on European companies and the Iranian economy. The European Union's foreign policy chief, Catherine Ashton, said figures on the amount of trade that would be involved in the sanctions were still being assessed.
The 27 European foreign ministers, in a statement, said they had agreed on ''a comprehensive and robust package of measures in the areas of trade, financial services, energy, transport as well as additional designations for visa ban and asset freeze,'' saying that it would focus on Iranian banks, the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps and the Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines.
Details of the companies and individuals covered by European measures will not be released until Tuesday at the earliest. But a draft text, discussed by foreign ministers at their meeting here in Brussels, identified dozens of individuals and companies, particularly those with ties to the Revolutionary Guards and the shipping company, officials said.
''We've sent quite a powerful message to Iran,'' Ms. Ashton said. ''That message is that their nuclear program is a cause of serious and growing concern to us.''
The European Union has been keeping the door open to talks with Iran, hoping to use economic isolation as a lever to force Tehran to talk.
On Monday, Iran said it was prepared to return to negotiations on an international deal to swap some of its lower-enriched uranium for more enriched uranium ''without conditions,'' according to the official IRNA news agency. Western nations had proposed such a deal to remove some of Iran's uranium stockpile while meeting its stated need for power-plant fuel and medical isotopes. Iran has agreed in the past, only to alter the conditions in ways unacceptable to the West.
Meanwhile, analysts said that many European companies had already reduced their dealings with Iran, but that the measures could take a toll. ''Over the long term Iran's output of oil and gas will continue to decline without European technology,'' said Mark Fitzpatrick, director of the nonproliferation and disarmament program at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London.
He added that Iran would find it difficult to get insurance since European and North American companies dominate the sector.
David Williams, a spokesman for Shell, said that the company would apply the sanctions and had already been reducing its investment in Iran.
''We have not been supplying gasoline to Iran since October last year and we are not renewing a small number of contracts to refuel Iranair,'' he said.
Mr. Williams would not comment on whether the company would be able to proceed with its involvement in Persian LNG Company, a proposed natural gas project in Iran, adding that no decision had been taken on whether to invest before Monday's sanctions were agreed.
Total refused to comment in the impact of the sanctions. It said recently that it had financed a number of Iranian fields -- Sirri, South Pars 2 & 3, Balal and Dorood -- under contracts for which it is still owed repayments. It also has a technical services agreement for the Dorood field.
A subsidiary holds a 50 percent stake in Beh Total, which produces and markets small quantities of lubricants. In 2009, revenue generated from Beh Total's activities was 27.4 million euros and cash flow was 5.6 million euros. In 2009 it bought around 58 million barrels of hydrocarbons from state-controlled entities for approximately 2.6 billion euros, and paid to a state-owned entity approximately 24 million euros for shipping contracts.
However Richard Rogers, spokesman for EGL, a Swiss-based energy company, said that the sanctions imposed by the United States and the European Union ''have no impact'' on the existing natural gas procurement between EGL and NIGEC (National Iranian Gas Export Company) under which the Iranian company delivers natural gas to the Iranian-Turkish border.
Meanwhile Bart Nash, external communications manager at Lloyd's of London, said that it would always comply with applicable sanctions, but that ''the Lloyd's market has been cutting back its exposures to Iran over the last two years, so any residual business is very small indeed.''
The draft text on which the European Union sanctions are based calls for a bar on the ''sale, supply or transfer of key equipment and technology'' for refinement, liquefied natural gas, exploration or production. European companies would not be able to provide technical or financial help ''to enterprises in Iran that are engaged in the key sectors of Iranian oil and gas industry.''
The draft requires European Union governments to monitor Iranian banks in their jurisdiction closely. Financial transfers above about $50,000 would require prior authorization.
Iranian banks are expected to be prohibited from opening new branches or subsidiaries in the European Union. There would be a ban on providing insurance and reinsurance ''to the government of Iran, or to entities incorporated in Iran or subject to Iran's jurisdiction.''
The draft also specifies that countries in the bloc would be expected to stop ''all cargo flights operated by Iranian carriers or originating from Iran with the exception of mixed passenger and cargo flights.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Catherine Ashton, the European Union foreign policy chief, with Foreign Minister Miguel Angel Moratinos of Spain in Brussels on Monday. The bloc's Iran sanctions exceed the United Nations'. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIEN WARNAND/BELGA, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); INSURANCE (77%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); RELIGION (62%); MILITARY WEAPONS (53%)

COMPANY: ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES (81%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (81%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (81%)

PERSON: BARONESS ASHTON OF UPHOLLAND (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); EUROPE (96%); BELGIUM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



675 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Love Found Amid Ruins Of Empire

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
SUPER SAD TRUE LOVE STORY
By Gary Shteyngart
334 pages. Random House. $26.
Gary Shteyngart's wonderful new novel, ''Super Sad True Love Story,'' is a supersad, superfunny, superaffecting performance -- a book that not only showcases the ebullient satiric gifts he demonstrated in his entertaining 2002 debut, ''The Russian Debutante's Handbook,'' but that also uncovers his abilities to write deeply and movingly about love and loss and mortality. It's a novel that gives us a cutting comic portrait of a futuristic America, nearly ungovernable and perched on the abyss of fiscal collapse, and at the same time it is a novel that chronicles a sweetly real love affair as it blossoms from its awkward, improbable beginnings.
Mr. Shteyngart spent his earliest childhood in Leningrad, then moved with his family to the United States, and ''Super Sad'' reflects his dual heritage, combining the dark soulfulness of Russian literature with the antic inventiveness of postmodern American writing; the tenderness of the Chekhovian tradition with the hormonal high jinks of a Judd Apatow movie. This novel avoids the pretensions and grandiosity of Mr. Shteyngart's last book, ''Absurdistan,'' even as it demonstrates a new emotional bandwidth and ratifies his emergence as one of his generation's most original and exhilarating writers. 
''Super Sad'' takes as its Romeo and Juliet, its Tristan and Iseult, a middle-aged sad sack named Lenny Abramov and a much younger beauty named Eunice Park. He is the son of Russian immigrants, she the daughter of Korean immigrants, and for all their differences, both are afflicted by a lack of self-esteem -- insecurities manifested in Lenny's self-deprecating humor, his compulsive need to try to make others like him, and in Eunice's bouts of anger and self-loathing, her fear that nothing she cares about can really last. Both are burdened with their striving parents' unbearable expectations, and both are plagued by unlucky experiences in love. Slowly, haltingly, nervously, they begin to forge a partnership they hope will keep them safe in an unsafe world.
''Super Sad'' takes place in the near future, and Mr. Shteyngart has extrapolated every toxic development already at large in America to farcical extremes. The United States is at war in Venezuela, and its national debt has soared to the point where the Chinese are threatening to pull the plug. There are National Guard checkpoints around New York, and riots in the city's parks. Books are regarded as a distasteful, papery-smelling anachronism by young people who know only how to text-scan for data, and privacy has become a relic of the past. Everyone carries around a device called an apparat, which can live-stream its owner's thoughts and conversations, and broadcast their ''hotness'' quotient to others. People are obsessed with their health -- Lenny works as a Life Lovers Outreach Coordinator (Grade G) for a firm that specializes in life extension -- and shopping is the favorite pastime of anyone with money.
It's ''zero hour for our economy,'' says one of Lenny's friends, ''zero hour for our military might, zero hour for everything that used to make us proud to be ourselves.''
But while Mr. Shteyngart's descriptions of America have a darkly satiric edge, his descriptions of New York are infused with a deep affection for the city that is partly nostalgia for a vanished metropolis (in other words, Gotham as we know it today) and partly an immigrant's awestruck love for a place mythologized by books and songs and movies, by everyone from F. Scott Fitzgerald to Frank Sinatra. He writes, for instance, of the ''melancholy 20th-century light'' of a summer's day that can make ''even the most prosaic, unloved buildings'' appear ''bright and nuclear at the edge of your vision.''
In another chapter he conjures the green paradise of Central Park as seen through lovers' eyes: an Edenic expanse of trees and grass amid the city's glass and stone. ''We headed south,'' Lenny says of a walk with Eunice, ''and when the trees ran out, the park handed us over to the city. We surrendered to a skyscraper with a green mansard roof and two stark chimneys. New York exploded all around us, people hawking, buying, demanding, streaming. The city's density caught me unprepared, and I reeled from its imposition, its alcoholic fumes, its hubris, its loud, dying wealth.''
As recounted in Lenny and Eunice's own slangy diaries and their e-mail and text messages, their relationship is like a country song -- a ballad of longing turning into love turning into loss. For him, it's a case of love at first sight. For her, it takes a little longer: She has to persuade herself that Lenny's schlubby looks don't matter, that his devotion to her is real. Eunice worries that Lenny's belief that ''niceness and smartness always win'' in the end is hopelessly naive, while he worries that her oppressive childhood has made her brittle and mistrustful.
Slowly, however, she falls in love with her ''sweet emperor penguin,'' and step by step, they begin to negotiate the emotional and familial minefields that threaten their budding romance. But even as they do, the world around them is crumbling. There are riots involving LNWI's (Lower Net Worth Individuals) and rogue elements of the National Guard. New York, Los Angeles and Washington are put on red alert, and when everyone's apparat stops working, there are rumors that Venezuela or China has detonated ''a Nonnuclear Electromagnetic Pulse'' in the atmosphere. Eunice is unable to reach her family in New Jersey or her best friend, Jenny, in California, and Lenny fears for his parents on Long Island.
''Things were going to get better,'' Lenny writes. ''Someday. For me to fall in love with Eunice Park just as the world fell apart would be a tragedy beyond the Greeks.''
In recounting the story of Lenny and Eunice in his antic, supercaffeinated prose, Mr. Shteyngart gives us his most powerful and heartfelt novel yet -- a novel that performs the delightful feat of mashing up an apocalyptic satire with a genuine supersad true love story.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
 Gary Shteyngart (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIGITTE LACOMBE) (C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (68%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (64%); RIOTS (62%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%)

TITLE: Super Sad True Love Story (Book)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



676 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: Harlem Helps Raise Coffee In Ethiopia

BYLINE: By TRYMAINE LEE

 BODY:
From a 542-square-foot office above a bustling intersection in Harlem, the Rev. Nicholas S. Richards is building what he hopes will be a 7,000-mile bridge to the eastern highlands of Ethiopia.
It is a bridge more than 200 years in the making.
In that modest two-room office off East 125th Street, the Abyssinian Fund, the only nongovernmental organization in Ethiopia formed by an African-American church, the Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem, finally has a home.
Mr. Richards, 26, an assistant minister at Abyssinian under the Rev. Calvin O. Butts III, is the president of the recently formed Aby Fund, as he calls it, an international aid and development arm of the church. It will soon be joining forces with a co-op of 700 coffee farmers in the ancient Ethiopian city of Harrar, with a mission to improve the quality of the farmers' lives by helping them improve the quality of their coffee beans.
The Abyssinian Fund will pay for specialized training and equipment to help the co-op's farmers produce a higher-quality product so they can be more competitive on the international coffee market. Once their income has increased, part of what they make will then be set aside in a fund to support local development projects, like much-needed roads, schools or clinics. 
Mr. Richards, members of the fund's board of directors and congregants of the church said the mission was as much about social aid and economic development as it was about the church's desire to reach back and reconnect with its spiritual and ancestral homeland.
Well woven into the fabric of Harlem, the Abyssinian Baptist Church has a connection to Ethiopia that goes back to the church's founding in 1808 by free blacks and Ethiopian merchant seamen who refused to worship where blacks and whites were segregated. (Abyssinia is a historical name for Ethiopia.)
Just a year and a half ago, the Abyssinian Fund was a dream that had sprouted from a simple seed planted after Mr. Butts led a group of congregants to Ethiopia in 2007 to celebrate the church's 200th anniversary.
The fund was inspired by the group's reaction to the struggle and resilience of the impoverished Ethiopians they had encountered.
''Ethiopia touches your heart,'' said Dori Brunson, a donor and congregant who made the journey. ''The villages were so simple, so lacking in the amenities that we are so used to, and at one point I just had to walk away, and I stood there and cried.
''Even though we were born here in America, we are part of that African soil. And because of what Africa has given the world and what they stand for, we must give back.''
So far the organization has raised about $130,000, only slightly more than a third of its year-end goal. Mr. Richards has not yet hired any salaried employees or opened a field office in Harrar. Not a single training session has been held or piece of equipment shipped.
Yet Mr. Richards said there was a sense among supporters and congregants that they had crossed a threshold, having succeeded in formalizing the fund's status in less than a year to a recognized charity with a nongovernmental organization in Ethiopia and an office in New York.
''To see our plan being transformed from just some pages to actual brick and mortar is amazing,'' said Mr. Richards, sitting in the sparsely furnished, seventh-floor office, where Ethiopian art hung on the mustard-colored walls and leftover bottles of water and wine from an opening reception a few days earlier were scattered on uncluttered desktops.
The organization will operate as an independent but affiliated body of the church, much like the Abyssinian Development Corporation, which has helped create housing and prompt commercial development in Harlem, including a supermarket, schools and homeless shelters.
Ethiopia is the birthplace of coffee, and the green beans the farmers grow there are prized on the multibillion-dollar international coffee market.
Coffee is the second most-traded commodity in the world, after oil, yet these farmers earn an average of $1 a day, less than $400 a year, according to aid organizations.
There has been no shortage of aid money pumped into Ethiopia from international organizations and other nations, including the United States, which, according to the State Department, gave $4.7 billion in assistance from 1999 to 2009. But Mr. Richards said the Abyssinian Fund would not function as a traditional charity, as the farmers would share the responsibility for the project's success.
''We are going to try to the best of our ability to provide the highest level of training and the most necessary equipment that the farmers need,'' he said. ''But it will be the farmers' responsibility to reinvest. Reinvestment is going to be critical.''
Instead of providing financial aid or food to the farmers, the Abyssinian Fund will hire coffee experts who are specialists in the processing and quality standards of companies like Starbucks that are the chief buyers of Ethiopia's beans. Substandard processing has vexed the farmers' efforts to command higher prices.
The trainers will also teach planting and harvesting techniques that help farmers grow and select only the choicest coffee beans, and the fund will provide equipment like scissors, shears and mechanized pickers to ensure that the beans are properly harvested. Many of these farmers still harvest their crops with their bare hands, Mr. Richards said.
Mr. Richards said the goal was for the farmers to double their income in five years. Helping to improve the livelihoods of the 700 farmers in the co-op, he said, could result in better conditions for as many as 3,000 people.
The fund has had to tread delicately in Ethiopia, where the government has been skeptical of the motives of some foreign aid groups.
Ethiopia is one of the poorest and most aid-dependent countries in the world, and has come under the scrutiny by human rights groups, the American government and the World Bank for what has been described as a leaky aid system, with accusations of governmental manipulation of food aid to reward political allies.
Reta Alemu Nega, a minister counselor with the Ethiopian Consulate in Manhattan, said the criticisms were the work of political enemies of the state. Nongovernmental organizations operating in Ethiopia ''are not always what they present themselves to be,'' he said.
But Mr. Nega said the Ethiopian government supported the work of the Abyssinian Fund. ''We know the Abyssinian Church,'' he said. ''We know who they are.''
Mr. Richards said he had to assure the Ethiopian government that the fund would not operate in a political capacity or meddle in local politics. If so, he said he was told, the organization would be kicked out of the country.
''There's very little concern for us about corruption because we have a direct relationship to the farming community that we are working with,'' Mr. Richards said. ''We know the farmers. I've visited the farmers. I've talked to them, and I've talked to their leaders. We don't provide any cash. And that's a huge way that we mitigate our exposure to corruption, because there is no cash that is being provided.''
So far, most of the money raised has come from Harlem, with donations ranging from $25 a week to one for $10,000. Other money has come from an art sale and gala featuring work by Ethiopian artists.
''Most of the people doing development work in Africa are not of African descent,'' Mr. Richards said. ''To have a group of African-Americans concerned about a particular nation in Africa, and doing something about it, is tremendous. This is black folk helping black folk, and it is tremendous to me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Rev. Nicholas S. Richards, above, in his Harlem office, is the president of the Abyssinian Fund, which is working with 700 coffee farmers in Harrar, Ethiopia, like this woman, left, selling her beans. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENNIFER S. ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 THE REV. NICHOLAS S. RICHARDS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); RELIGION (76%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); COFFEE & TEA (73%); COFFEE FARMING (73%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (72%); COFFEE MARKETS (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ETHIOPIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



677 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Long-Term Economic Pain

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
The pain coursing through American families is all too real and no one seems to know what to do about it. A rigorous new analysis for the Rockefeller Foundation shows that Americans are more economically insecure now than they have been in a quarter of a century, and the trend lines suggest that things will only get worse.
Rampant joblessness and skyrocketing medical costs are among the biggest factors tearing at the very fabric of American economic life so painstakingly put together in the early post-World War II decades. 
The analysis was done by a team of researchers led by Professor Jacob Hacker of Yale University. They created an economic security index, which measures the percentage of Americans who experience a decrease in their household income of 25 percent or more in one year without having the financial resources to offset that loss. (Major medical expenses were counted as a decrease in available income.)
The team's findings were grim. Simply stated, more and more families are facing utter economic devastation: completely out of money, with their jobs, savings and retirement funds gone, and nowhere to turn for the next dollar.
Economic insecurity has been increasing for at least a generation and perhaps longer, with very dangerous levels being reached in this latest recession. Professor Hacker discussed the ominous trend lines in an interview.
In 1985, at a time when the unemployment rate was 7.2 percent, the portion of American families that would be counted as economically insecure by the terms of this new index was 12 percent. Professor Hacker explained that the percentage would naturally tend to rise or fall with improvements or a deterioration in the economy.
But what has happened over the past few decades is that the percentage of insecure Americans relative to any given level of the economy has tended to steadily rise. So in 2002, coming out of a mild recession, there was a 5.8 percent unemployment rate, but the percentage of economically insecure families had jumped to 17 percent.
All of the data for 2009 are not yet in, but the research team projects, conservatively, that more than 20 percent of Americans experienced a 25 percent or greater loss of household income (without a financial cushion) over the prior year -- the highest in at least a quarter of a century.
A decrease of this magnitude in available income is a heavy blow. As the study points out, ''The typical individual who experiences a decline of at least 25 percent in household income requires between six and eight years for income to return to its previous level.''
''What we're seeing, basically, is what we're calling 'the new normal,' '' said Mr. Hacker. ''We're slowly ratcheting up this level of economic insecurity.''
Put another way, the bottom is falling out for increasing numbers of Americans, and with the national employment situation stuck in an extended horror zone there is little to stop the free fall. In addition to tracking the percentage of Americans suffering household income losses of 25 percent or more, the index also shows that families are suffering steeper income declines than in previous decades.
According to the study, ''Between 1985 and 1995, the typical (median) drop among those experiencing a 25 percent or greater available income loss was about 38.2 percent; between 1997 and 2007, it was 41.4 percent.''
Only the very well-to-do are out of the range of this buzz saw. ''The fact that Americans are facing a very real and growing risk of large-scale economic loss is true across the spectrum,'' said Mr. Hacker. ''It's true of blacks more than whites, but it's true of whites, as well. It's true of less affluent people more than more affluent people, but it's true of the more affluent as well.
''If anything, we're understating how bad things are out there right now.''
Policy makers seem bewildered by the terrible economic state of ordinary working Americans, including those once considered solidly in the middle class. Despite warnings back in 2008 that we were on the verge of another great depression, the big financial institutions and corporate America seem to be doing just fine now. But average Americans are hurting with no end to the pain in sight.
More than 14 million people are out of work and many more are either underemployed or so discouraged they've just stopped looking. Big corporations, sitting on fat profits even as the economy continues to struggle, have made it clear that they are not interested in putting a lot more people back to work any time soon.
Policy makers have dropped the ball completely in terms of dealing with this devastating long-term trend of ever-increasing economic insecurity for American families. Long-term solutions that have to do with extensive job creation and a strengthening of the safety net are required. But that doesn't seem to be on anyone's agenda.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (88%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (70%); WORLD WAR II (55%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



678 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Obama, Facing Loss on Campaign Bill, Pushes for a Political Edge

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama on Monday sought political advantage from the expected defeat of a campaign finance measure that he has championed by pre-emptively attacking its Republican opponents for ''nothing less than a vote to allow corporate and special-interest takeovers of our elections.''
Mr. Obama's statement to reporters at the White House was added to his daily schedule after it became clear that the Senate would vote Tuesday on whether to take up a bill that would require corporations, unions and other special interests to disclose the donors that bankroll their political advertisements. The legislation would also ban campaign spending by foreign-controlled corporations. 
The House has passed the measure, which Democrats initiated after the Supreme Court ruled 5 to 4 to allow unlimited independent expenditures by corporations in elections, saying the federal limits violated First Amendment rights. But in the Senate, with a solid wall of Republican opposition, the measure is expected to fall short of the 60 votes needed to avoid a filibuster.
That would probably kill the initiative for this election year, handing Mr. Obama a big loss in a fight against not only Congressional Republicans but also the dominant conservative faction on the Supreme Court led by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr.
A week after the court issued its decision in January in the case, Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission, Mr. Obama delivered an unusually direct critique in his State of the Union address, with justices in the audience. He said the court had ''reversed a century of law that I believe will open the floodgates for special interests -- including foreign corporations -- to spend without limit in our elections.''
Mr. Obama got applause then in urging Congress to pass legislation mitigating the problems he foresaw, but it mostly came from Democrats.
Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Senate Republican leader who has marshaled his party against other Obama initiatives, has made stopping the campaign finance bill a personal priority. Before he became Republican leader, Mr. McConnell was perhaps best known for his longtime battle against what became known as the McCain-Feingold law, the act restricting campaign spending.
While Mr. McConnell is favored to win the legislative round, the White House remains confident that public opinion is on its side. Mr. Obama turned his lectern in the Rose Garden into a bully pulpit to define the debate for the so-called Disclose Act on his terms, and to make it part of his election-year portrayal of Republicans as obstructionist.
Anticipating the legislation's defeat, Mr. Obama said: ''Now imagine the power this will give special interests over politicians. Corporate lobbyists will be able to tell members of Congress if they don't vote the right way, they will face an onslaught of negative ads in their next campaign.''
''Nobody is saying you can't run the ads. Just make sure that people know who in fact is behind financing these ads,'' Mr. Obama added.
Besides mandating disclosure of donors, the act would require someone behind a political advertisement -- like a company executive, union leader or an advocacy group's major contributor -- to appear in it to take responsibility.
''You'd think that reducing corporate and even foreign influence over our elections would not be a partisan issue,'' Mr. Obama said. ''But of course, this is Washington in 2010.''
Just as with legislation to extend unemployment compensation and to provide tax credits and lending assistance for small businesses, ''the Republican leadership in the Senate is once again using every tactic and every maneuver'' to block a vote, Mr. Obama added. ''On issue after issue, we are trying to move America forward, and they keep on trying to take us back.''
The president's offensive, however, comes as Congressional Republicans are emboldened. A fragile economy and stubbornly high unemployment have helped to drag down support in the polls for the president and Congressional Democrats, threatening their party's control of Congress this November.
One Republican senator said the expectation was that no one would break ranks to support the measure.
Mr. McConnell described the bill on Monday as a product of back-room deals that ''seeks to protect unpopular Democrat politicians by silencing their critics and exempting their campaign supporters from an all-out attack on the First Amendment.''
Republicans say Democrats made a mistake in overly politicizing the issue by having the drive for the law led by Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, and Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, who formerly led the campaign committee for Senate Democrats.
Democrats tried, unsuccessfully, to persuade Senator Scott Brown, Republican of Massachusetts, to support the measure. Two other potential Republican supporters, Senators Susan Collins and Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, have also indicated they will not join Democrats in taking up the issue before the elections.
Democrats had hoped to win allies with reminders that in past fights Republicans typically argued for more disclosure and transparency about political donors and spending as an alternative to constitutionally questionable limits on campaign finance.
''For years, opponents of campaign finance reform have expressed support for complete and timely disclosure of campaign contributions and spending,'' Senator Russ Feingold, the Wisconsin Democrat who sponsored previous campaign finance changes, said Monday. On Tuesday, he added, ''we will see if they are serious.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama has raised a legislative debate as an election-year issue. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); FILIBUSTER (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MITCH MCCONNELL (78%); JOHN ROBERTS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



679 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Central Bankers Reach Initial Accord on Global Standards

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH and NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
Even as investors applauded the mostly positive results of recent stress tests of European banks, central bankers and regulators reached a preliminary agreement Monday on new standards to reinforce the stability of the global financial system.
Under the new requirements, banks would have to hold higher capital reserves and more cash on their balance sheets to cushion against unexpected shocks, though regulators have not specified a minimum amount.
The rules, developed after lengthy negotiations among regulators on the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, would not take effect for at least seven years. 
The standards agreed to Monday are less onerous than earlier proposals and give banks more leeway to define what counts as high-quality, or Tier 1, capital.
A compromise was struck after private banks and regulators warned that raising capital standards too quickly could choke lending and economic growth. Bankers also fear that having to set aside more capital could reduce profits and ultimately result in lower bonuses for bank employees.
The standards were lauded by central bankers who have fresh memories of the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the market chaos that followed in the fall of 2008.
''The agreements reached today are a landmark achievement to strengthen banking sector resilience in a manner that reflects the key lessons of the crisis,'' said Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank and chairman of the Basel Committee.
In a nod to concerns about the short-term impact of the new rules, Mr. Trichet added, ''We will put in place transition arrangements that will ensure the banking sector is able to support the economic recovery.''
In the next few months, the regulators will conduct a detailed analysis of how the standards would affect the biggest banks in Europe, Asia and the United States. The committee is expected to meet in November to complete the new rules, which will begin to take effect in the United States next year.
Under the plan, banks will have until as early as 2018 to comply with a requirement that they hold at least $3 in capital for every $100 they lend -- a so-called leverage ratio of 3 percent. A leverage ratio is considered the broadest measure of a bank's financial strength. The regulators said the final amount may be adjusted.
Whatever the amount, the requirement should have little effect on American institutions, which already easily meet the 3 percent standard. Some European and Asian banks could have to reinforce their financial positions.
Regulators granted a broader definition of what qualifies as capital than some bank analysts had expected.
For example, European banks persuaded regulators to allow part of their stakes in other banks to count toward their Tier 1 capital. American and Asian institutions successfully lobbied to preserve local rules that let them count a percentage of future tax deductions for losses as Tier 1 capital.
Citigroup, for instance, carries a $50 billion tax benefit on its books, largely because of losses during the financial crisis. Bank of America has a $31 billion credit from similar charge-offs.
In the United States, bank shares rallied 2.6 percent amid a broader rise in the stock market.
And in the first full trading day since the results of the bank stress tests were announced on Friday, European investors seemed to shrug off criticism that the tests were not rigorous enough. Bank shares rose in Europe, while the cost of insuring bank bonds using credit-default swaps fell.
The interest rate that banks charge one another for short-term loans also declined, a tentative sign that the stress tests were helping to ease fears about banks' creditworthiness.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jean-Claude Trichet of the European Central Bank called the rules ''a landmark achievement.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEBASTIEN BOZON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); LOBBYING (67%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (60%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (67%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (82%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



680 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Stay Out of Island Dispute, Chinese Warn the U.S.

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS; Li Bibo and Zhang Jing contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- The Chinese government reacted angrily on Monday to an announcement by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton that Washington might step into a long-simmering territorial dispute between China and its smaller neighbors in the South China Sea.
Speaking Friday during a forum of Southeast Asian countries in Vietnam, Mrs. Clinton apparently surprised Beijing by saying the United States had a ''national interest'' in seeking to mediate the dispute, which involves roughly 200 islands, islets and coral outcroppings that are claimed by China, Vietnam, Brunei, Malaysia, Taiwan, Indonesia and the Philippines. 
Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi of China warned the United States against wading into the conflict, saying it would increase regional tensions.
''What will be the consequences if this issue is turned into an international or multilateral one?'' he asked in remarks published on the Foreign Ministry's Web site. ''It will only make matters worse and the resolution more difficult.''
The state-run news media were far less diplomatic, describing Mrs. Clinton's speech as ''an attack'' and a cynical effort to suppress China's aspirations -- and its expanding might.
''America hopes to contain a China with growing military capabilities,'' ran an editorial Monday in the Communist Party-run People's Daily newspaper.
Global Times, an English-language tabloid published by People's Daily, said, ''China will never waive its right to protect its core interest with military means.''
Ms. Clinton's announcement came at time of rising tension between Washington and Beijing over a number of economic and diplomatic differences. On Sunday, the United States and South Korea began four days of naval drills off the Korean Peninsula involving 200 aircraft, 20 ships and an aircraft carrier. Although the exercises are meant as a message to North Korea -- which the South has blamed for a torpedo attack on one of its warships in March that killed 46 sailors -- China has greeted the maneuvers with some alarm.
Until Mrs. Clinton made her remarks, the dispute over the South China Sea islands had remained a largely regional concern. The area of contention, which spans 1.2 million square miles, is an increasingly important conduit for a third of the world's maritime trade and much of the region's energy supplies. Just as compelling are the enormous deposits of oil and natural gas thought to be under the ocean floor.
In 1988, the Chinese and Vietnamese military sparred over one archipelago, the Paracel Islands, claiming the lives of dozens of Vietnamese sailors. This year, China announced plans to develop tourism in the Paracels. In recent months, it has been warning foreign oil companies against striking exploration deals with Vietnam.
Xu Liping, an expert on Southeast Asia at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in Beijing, said that the United States, long distracted by conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, was seeking to revive its influence in the region.
''The U.S. feels like this is the time to play the political and military card since it's very difficult for them to compete with China in the economic sphere,'' he said, adding that if Washington could play a larger role in the South China Sea, ''it will help to continue its influence among South Asian countries.''
American officials have reacted with growing concern over China's naval ambitions, a new strategy that Chinese admirals have described as its ''far sea defense.'' Beyond refusing to cede any ground on sovereignty in the South China Sea, China has announced plans to deploy aircraft carriers, and it has strengthened its armada with nuclear-powered submarines capable of firing ballistic missiles.
In March, China warned two visiting American officials that it would not tolerate interference in the South China Sea, an area it described as its ''core interest,'' much like Tibet and Taiwan.
China's neighbors have reacted by bolstering their own naval forces. In recent years, Vietnam, Singapore and Malaysia have acquired submarines. On Sunday, Japan announced plans to increase its submarine fleet for the first time in more than three decades.
Mrs. Clinton's announcement on Friday was essentially a nod to Vietnam, which has been seeking support for multilateral negotiations as a bulwark against China's stance on issues of sovereignty. China has insisted that the conflict be resolved through one-on-one negotiations. ''The consensus is to have these disputes solved peacefully through friendly consultations in the interest of peace and stability in the South China Sea and good neighborly relations,'' Mr. Yang, the Chinese foreign minister, said in his statement.
Ian Storey, a fellow at the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies in Singapore, said Washington's enhanced interest in the South China Sea was sure to heighten tensions between the countries. Such confrontations have already been playing out through less-than-friendly encounters between American and Chinese vessels.
''This is clearly an unpleasant surprise for the Chinese,'' Mr. Storey said of Mrs. Clinton's announcement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (87%); NAVAL VESSELS (87%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (77%); OCEANS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); ARMED FORCES (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (67%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (64%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (64%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (63%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); TOURISM (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); PACIFIC OCEAN (93%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (96%); VIET NAM (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); ASIA (93%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDONESIA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); PARACEL ISLANDS (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



681 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: A Rare Revolution Day in Cuba Without a Castro on the Podium

BYLINE: By VICTORIA BURNETT

 BODY:
SANTA CLARA, Cuba -- Raul Castro is known among Cubans as a pragmatist, not an orator. But the Cuban president surprised even those accustomed to his reticence on Monday, when he chose not to address an expectant crowd gathered to celebrate Revolution Day in this university town.
Instead, he delegated the task to the 79-year old vice president, Jose Ramon Machado Ventura, who appealed for discipline and patience as Cuba tackles economic reforms and condemned the United States for its economic isolation of the island as Mr. Castro applauded from his seat. 
''We will go forward, step by step, with a sense of responsibility at our own rhythm, without improvising and without haste,'' Mr. Machado said.
Mr. Castro's choice to not to speak at one of the most important fixtures on the Cuban calendar disappointed some in this central Cuban city. Cubans and officials interviewed Monday said they could not recall an occasion when either Mr. Castro, 79, or his brother, Fidel, 83, did not speak on July 26, when Cubans commemorate the 1953 rebel assault on the Moncada military barracks in Santiago de Cuba, an event often celebrated here as the birth of the revolution against President Fulgencio Batista.
The decision puzzled Cuba analysts, who thought Mr. Castro might use the occasion to reassert his leadership after his brother's recent re-emergence into the public sphere after years of seclusion due to illness. Fidel Castro made a separate appearance on Monday in Havana, where he laid a wreath at a memorial for the national hero Jose Marti.
Some suggested that Raul Castro, who took over as president in 2008, might be waiting to announce new economic reforms in the more formal setting of the National Assembly, Cuba's Parliament, when it meets on Sunday.
Cubans weaned on Fidel Castro's oratorical marathons say they appreciate the terse style of his brother, but many complain that reforms have been slow and say they want to be kept in the loop.
''It's true he is very practical, but he should give us an idea of where we are going,'' Luis Piloto, a theater technician, said after the two-hour, early morning event in a square with a vast monument to Ernesto (Che) Guevara.
The president has made cutting fat from the public sector and increasing agricultural output central to reforms since he succeeded his brother.
The government has leased thousands of hectares of state-held land to private farmers, raised prices paid for produce and agreed to let farmers buy their own supplies instead of having them allocated by the state.
But it has yet to make good on a pledge to cut the agricultural sector's huge bureaucracy, and problems with distribution and supplies of fertilizer have led to a fall in output this year. Cuba is facing rice shortages and is expecting this year's sugar crop to be the lowest in more than 100 years, according to state media.
Analysts said Mr. Castro now has to balance the unpopular task of cutting public-sector jobs with creating more opportunities for private enterprise. The Cuban leader has turned some barber shops over to workers and allowed more private taxis.
''Raul's message about reform is, 'This is about becoming more efficient, but making changes in a way that doesn't cause unrest,' '' said Sarah Stephens, executive director of the Center for Democracy in the Americas.
Philip Peters, vice president of the Lexington Institute, a research group in Virginia, said the government could allow retailers to buy supplies wholesale, rather than from expensive state-owned shops, as ''a sign of acceptance that these people are part of our economy and we want them to succeed.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 28, 2010, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article in some editions on Tuesday about the surprising decision by President Raul Castro of Cuba not to address a Revolutionary Day celebration on Monday misstated the year in which problems with distribution and supplies of fertilizer led to a fall in his country's agricultural output. The problems occurred this year, not last.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Raul Castro attended a Revolution Day event Monday in Santa Clara but chose not to address the crowd. He delegated the task to his vice president. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEJANDRO ERNESTO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); AGRICULTURE (64%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); FERTILIZERS (60%); PRICE CHANGES (60%)

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (93%); FIDEL CASTRO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



682 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan's Double Game

 BODY:
There is a lot to be disturbed by in the battlefield reports from Afghanistan released Sunday by WikiLeaks. The close-up details of war are always unsettling, even more so with this war, which was so badly neglected and bungled by President George W. Bush.
But the most alarming of the reports were the ones that described the cynical collusion between Pakistan's military intelligence service and the Taliban. Despite the billions of dollars the United States has sent in aid to Pakistan since Sept. 11, they offer powerful new evidence that crucial elements of Islamabad's power structure have been actively helping to direct and support the forces attacking the American-led military coalition. 
The time line of the documents from WikiLeaks, an organization devoted to exposing secrets, stops before President Obama put his own military and political strategy into effect last December. Administration officials say they have made progress with Pakistan since, but it is hard to see much evidence of that so far.
Most of the WikiLeaks documents, which were the subject of in-depth coverage in The Times on Monday, cannot be verified. However, they confirm a picture of Pakistani double-dealing that has been building for years.
On a trip to Pakistan last October, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton suggested that officials in the Pakistani government knew where Al Qaeda leaders were hiding. Gen. David Petraeus, the new top military commander in Afghanistan, recently acknowledged longstanding ties between Pakistan's Directorate for Inter-Services Intelligence, known as the ISI, and the ''bad guys.''
The Times's report of the new documents suggests the collusion goes even deeper, that representatives of the ISI have worked with the Taliban to organize networks of militants to fight American soldiers in Afghanistan and hatch plots to assassinate Afghan leaders.
The article painted a chilling picture of the activities of Lt. Gen. Hamid Gul of Pakistan, who ran the ISI from 1987 to 1989, when the agency and the C.I.A. were together arming the Afghan militias fighting Soviet troops. General Gul kept working with those forces, which eventually formed the Taliban.
Pakistan's ambassador to the United States said the reports were unsubstantiated and ''do not reflect the current on-ground realities.'' But at this point, denials about links with the militants are simply not credible.
Why would Pakistan play this dangerous game? The ISI has long seen the Afghan Taliban as a proxy force, a way to ensure its influence on the other side of the border and keep India's influence at bay.
Pakistani officials also privately insist that they have little choice but to hedge their bets given their suspicions that Washington will once again lose interest as it did after the Soviets were ousted from Afghanistan in 1989. And until last year, when the Pakistani Taliban came within 60 miles of Islamabad, the country's military and intelligence establishment continued to believe it could control the extremists when it needed to.
In recent months, the Obama administration has said and done many of the right things toward building a long-term relationship with Pakistan. It has committed to long-term economic aid. It is encouraging better relations between Afghanistan and Pakistan. It is constantly reminding Pakistani leaders that the extremists, on both sides of the border, pose a mortal threat to Pakistan's fragile democracy -- and their own survival. We don't know if they're getting through. We know they have to.
It has been only seven months since Mr. Obama announced his new strategy for Afghanistan, and a few weeks since General Petraeus took command. But Americans are increasingly weary of this costly war. If Mr. Obama cannot persuade Islamabad to cut its ties to, and then aggressively fight, the extremists in Pakistan, there is no hope of defeating the Taliban in Afghanistan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALIBAN (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ASSASSINATION (72%); AL-QAEDA (71%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DAVID PETRAEUS (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



683 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
EUROPE TOUGHENS PENALTIES
On Iran for Nuclear Work
The European Union intensified the economic isolation of Iran over its nuclear program by ordering its toughest economic sanctions yet against the Iranian government. PAGE A7
PROTESTING LANGUAGE PLANS
More than 1,000 people gathered in Guangzhou, in southern China, to demonstrate against a local politician's proposal to force a major local television network to stop broadcasting in Cantonese and switch to the country's official language, Mandarin. PAGE A9
MILITANTS KILL FRENCHMAN 
President Nicolas Sarkozy of France confirmed that Saharan militants affiliated with Al Qaeda executed a French hostage in retaliation for a failed rescue operation last week. He vowed to retaliate. PAGE A6
National
LAWMAKERS SCRUTINIZE
Salaries at Nonprofits
State and federal officials are starting to take their knives to the pay of leaders of nonprofit groups they do business with to help share the pain of tighter budgets. PAGE A12
WORRIES AFTER DAM BREAK
Heavy rains forced a dam break over the weekend in eastern Iowa, and people there were coming to grips with the jarring reality that their beloved Lake Delhi was gone. When the dam burst, so did a thriving tourism industry for the region. PAGE A11
New York
GROWING COFFEE IN ETHIOPIA,
With Help From Harlem
The Abyssinian Fund is the only nongovernmental organization in Ethiopia formed by an African-American church -- the Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem. And it will soon be joining forces with a co-op of 700 coffee farmers in the ancient Ethiopian city of Harrar, with a mission to improve the quality of the farmers' lives by helping them improve the quality of their coffee beans. PAGE A13
Business
REALITY STARS THREATEN
To Upend Business Model
Reality television became a force on networks and cable because viewers liked it and because, without celebrities and big salaries, it was cheap. But now the genre is creating its own stars, and with stars come demands for higher salaries, threatening the inexpensive economic model. PAGE B1
ENGINE PROGRAM RISKS VETO
Lawmakers say they expect the House defense appropriations subcommittee to add $485 million to keep alive a program for an alternate engine for the joint strike fighter, setting up a showdown with the Senate over a project that the White House and Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates oppose. PAGE B1
NIKE TO AID WORKERS
Facing pressure from universities and student groups, the apparel maker Nike said that it would pay $1.54 million to help 1,800 workers in Honduras who lost their jobs when two subcontractors closed their factories. PAGE B1
Sports
PAC-10 AIMS TO RAISE PROFILE
Outside of West Coast
The Pacific-10 Conference has always been at a disadvantage when negotiating broadcast and sponsorship deals because its West Coast schools play games that often air past prime time in other parts of the country. But Larry Scott, the commissioner of the Pac-10, is trying to change that, and will unveil a wide-ranging effort to raise the conference's profile outside the western United States. PAGE B11
NO AGREEMENT ON BOUT
Manny Pacquiao will soon sign an agreement to face Antonio Margarito in November, adding another subplot to the highly anticipated but increasingly unlikely main event between Pacquiao and Floyd Mayweather Jr. PAGE B10
Arts
A COMIC BOOK PIONEER
Takes a New Tack
''Unearthing,'' a new work by the comic book writer Alan Moore, is not typical of his pioneering graphic novels, like ''Watchmen'' and ''V for Vendetta.'' Instead, it is a lengthy spoken-word recording accompanied by an atmospheric musical soundtrack and a book of photographs. PAGE C1
LOVE AMID EMPIRE'S RUINS
Michiko Kakutani writes that Gary Shteyngart's new novel, ''Super Sad True Love Story,'' about two lovers in a futuristic America on the brink of fiscal collapse, combines the dark soulfulness of Russian literature with the antic inventiveness of postmodern American writing. PAGE C1
Science Times
ADVANCE ON AIDS RAISES
Questions as Well as Joy
The best AIDS-prevention news in years was released in Vienna last week at a world conference on the disease: a vaginal gel gave women a 39 percent chance of avoiding infection with the deadly virus. But since AIDS research inevitably creates controversy, some hard questions were raised. PAGE D1
Obituaries
GERSON GOLDHABER, 86
After a long career studying the innermost particles of matter, he turned his attention, at the age of 65, to the outer reaches of the universe and found, with others, early evidence that dark energy was pulling it apart. PAGE A17
Op-ed
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A19
BOB HERBERT PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); REALITY TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (88%); COFFEE FARMING (87%); LAYOFFS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); VETO (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (76%); TERRORISM (75%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); DISASTER RELIEF (74%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); COFFEE (71%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (70%); AL-QAEDA (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (70%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (66%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (65%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (60%); DISMISSALS (60%); APPAREL MFG (60%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (60%); TOURISM (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (58%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGZHOU, CHINA (73%) SOUTH CHINA (90%); IOWA, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%) EUROPE (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ETHIOPIA (93%); CHINA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONDURAS (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



684 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: With Asian Industry Astir, More Job-Seekers Go East

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- Shahrzad Moaven quit a public relations job in London and moved to this teeming metropolis four months ago to take up what she saw as a more exciting post: communications director at the exclusive jeweler Carnet.
Jan Mezlik, 29, moved here from the Czech Republic in late April for a job as a trainer in a physical therapy studio called Stretch. For him, the move brought a secure job and the chance to learn to become a yoga instructor. 
Charlotte Sumner, a lawyer, arrived eight months ago, thanks to a transfer within her firm. She had spent six months in London and another six in Moscow and had jumped at the chance of a stint in Asia, which she felt would lead to more opportunities than a posting elsewhere.
Before the global financial crisis, none of the three had thought seriously about moving to Asia. But growth in China, India, South Korea and many other countries in the region is outpacing that of Europe and the United States. Many local companies are enjoying rapid expansion, while international employers are shifting positions to Asia and are hiring again. So increasingly, European and American job seekers are hoping that Asia is a place where opportunities match their ambitions.
''Things are just so much more dynamic here,'' Ms. Moaven, 28, said. ''Back in London, there were fewer resources for P.R. events or advertising. Here, everyone is expanding and spending on marketing activities. That makes my job here a lot more interesting.''
In Hong Kong, the recruiting firm Ambition estimates that the number of resumes arriving from the United States and Europe has risen 20 to 30 percent since 2008. These now make up about two-thirds of the more than 600 resumes its Hong Kong office gets every month, said Matthew Hill, Ambition's managing director for the city. Similarly, at eFinancialCareers, an online job site, applications for positions based in Singapore and Hong Kong have jumped nearly 50 percent in the last year, its Asia-Pacific chief, George McFerran, said.
Landing a position in Asia, though, is not just a matter of being willing to make a new life halfway around the world. Many employers prefer candidates who have track records in the region and who bring language skills and local contacts to the job.
Mike Game, chief executive in Asia for Hudson, an international recruitment agency, said the number of Westerners actually making the move was still fairly small. Many employers, he said, are more demanding than they were during the economic peak of 2007 and are ''setting the bar very high in terms of what they want.''
Nevertheless, many Westerners seem to be looking to make the move.
No wonder. The jobless rate in the United Stands is 9.5 percent, Britain's is at nearly 8 percent and Spain's is 19.9 percent. In Hong Kong, by contrast, the unemployment rate is 4.6 percent. In Singapore -- another hub of banking, legal and other white-collar positions -- only 2.2 percent of people are registered as being out of work. In Australia, the jobless rate fell to 5.1 percent in June, the lowest level in nearly a year and a half.
During the downturn, millions of people in Asia -- from factory and construction workers to bankers and architects -- lost their jobs as demand for the region's exports plummeted and multinational companies cut back. But with most Asian countries free of bank failures and the crippling debt loads that governments and households in the West are trying to pay down, economies in the region have bounced back quickly. (Japan is an exception.)
''The speed of the recovery has caught people slightly by surprise,'' Mr. McFerran of eFinancialCareers said. ''The jobs market is starting to be candidate-driven again.''
Hudson said in late June the percentage of companies in Hong Kong that planned to hire workers soon was at the highest level since it began monitoring the data in 1998. Two-thirds of companies queried in Hong Kong and in mainland China in May said they planned to add workers in the third quarter of this year. In Singapore, the figure was 57 percent, the highest proportion since 2001, Hudson said.
Many companies in Hong Kong said it was hard to find qualified candidates and complained that salaries were rising, Ambition said in another report.
The renewed hiring has been especially strong in the financial industry and in legal services. But there is movement pretty much across the board.
And hardly a day goes by without news of expansion in the hospitality and luxury goods sectors, where companies are seeking to tap booming demand in China for luxury goods and hotel rooms.
''You have to staff up now, ahead of the curve, to be ready for the sort of company you will be in five years' time,'' said Pradeep Pant, head of Kraft Foods in Asia-Pacific.
Lauren Kwan left San Francisco to take a position at the global public relations firm Burson-Marsteller in Hong Kong last year. ''I was seeing the hiring freezes and layoffs happening all around me, so I cast my net wider and wider to see what was out there,'' she said.
''We're seeing the beginning of a trend here,'' Jeffrey A. Joerres, chief executive of the employment service Manpower, said by telephone from Milwaukee. ''With prospects so weak at home, people are considering different options and looking for where the action is.''
For their part, employers want people familiar with the local culture, as well as the business and regulatory environment. For many jobs -- like sales and marketing, or investment banking and wealth management -- they are looking for candidates who bring contacts and clients.
Local language skills are a plus -- and often a must -- for anything China-related.
As a result, local candidates and Asians raised overseas tend to stand a better chance. Ms. Kwan at Burson-Marsteller grew up in the United States but is fluent in Mandarin and Cantonese.
''Employers don't want to have to do a lot of baby-sitting and training,'' said Matthew Hoyle, who runs his own company, which specializes in hiring senior staff members for banks and hedge funds. ''There are plenty of local people with good qualifications who speak Mandarin and Cantonese -- you'd have to bring something pretty special to the table to top that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jan Mezlik of the Czech Republic moved to Hong Kong for a job as a trainer in a physical therapy studio called Stretch. Growth in Asia is outpacing other economies worldwide, and in Hong Kong, the jobless rate is 4.6 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTINA WASSENER/INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); YOGA (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) HONG KONG (97%); ASIA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); SPAIN (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



685 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Some Companies Now Aim for Audiences of One

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
You move from room to room in a mansion, experiencing acts of kindness -- like being gently led in a ballroom dance or receiving a hand massage. Or, blindfolded, you set out on a journey in five segments with different themes: you can remove the blindfold at any point, but that's where the journey ends. Or perhaps you wander through an Old World hotel as employees tell their stories and ask you questions in turn.
These are all theater pieces meant to be experienced by an audience of one. High-concept and immersive, intimate theater has been cropping up for years, but now in Europe it has reached such a critical mass that the Battersea Arts Center in London, known for innovation, hosted the largest one-person-audience festival this month. Called One-on-One, it brought together 40 productions from around the world. And in New York on Thursday night ''The Blind Trip'' -- the five performances based on different themes -- will be presented as part of an international festival at the LaGuardia Performing Arts Center in Long Island City, Queens. 
Coming later, from Sept. 16 to 19, at the New York University Tisch School of the Arts, is ''Appointment.'' (You sit in a real office as a scene plays out around you.) ''Hotel Savoy,'' by Dominic Huber, scheduled to be the first full-scale presentation of Performance Space 122's 30th-anniversary season, will take place in a Fifth Avenue mansion from Sept. 30 to Oct. 24. (The Goethe-Institut German cultural center is a co-presenter.)
''It's budding,'' Christine Jones, a Tony Award-winning set designer, said of one-on-one theater. For 10 days in May she set up a 9-by-4-foot box in Times Square and called it ''Theater for One.'' It featured six new plays, a dance piece, musicians, a stand-up comedian and a puppeteer, among other performers. Over the course of the run, 675 people were entertained individually in Times Square, first come first served.
''American artists are interested in the form, but there seems to be more access to arts funding in Europe,'' Ms. Jones said. ''You need to figure out how to fund a project like this as all theaters struggle with how to support themselves. You still need a venue, a permit, someone to take the tickets, an infrastructure.'' (Her project was underwritten by the Times Square Alliance Public Art Program.)
The appeal? ''What people said to me is that, aside from the song or poetry, it's just the experience of sitting across from someone in a private space,'' Ms. Jones said. ''We don't slow down very often and take the time to look into someone's eyes. That's the gift of this.''
Besides caffeinated culture fatigue, young audiences accustomed to a more interactive experience are bringing that expectation to the theater, said Mark Ball, the artistic director of the London International Festival of Theater. The festival, which ended on July 18, included performances of ''Beloved,'' by Nicole Blackman, in which audience members wandered Rainham Hall, a Georgian house owned by the National Trust.
''With the exponential increase in gaming culture, people are used to being at the center of attention, of controlling their avatar, of getting immediate feedback,'' Mr. Ball said.
David Jubb, the joint artistic director of the Battersea Arts Center, where the One-on-One Festival recently ended, said the response there indicated that audiences were looking for intimacy and innovation.
''We had a couple of hundred people in the building every night, and there was an incredible buzz about what people saw and experienced,'' he said. A festival setting is a good way to work out the logistical and economic challenges of one-audience theater, he added, since the paying audience for any one show is limited.
By the end of the Battersea festival there had been 10,000 performances in the center's big building in southwest London. With dozens of choices each day, one could be bathed in the nude by a performer, ''kidnapped,'' slid out of a window and much more, all for the price of admission.
For the creators of these works, part of the appeal is the enforced focus they bring, Ms. Blackman said of her 2003 run of ''Courtesan Tales,'' at P.S. 122, in which she told a short story to one blindfolded audience member at a time. She also took it on the road, performing it at the Andy Warhol Museum in Pittsburgh and the Outfest in Los Angeles.
''I was thinking, 'What happens when it's one-on-one, and you can't turn away?'' Ms. Blackman, a performance artist, poet and vocalist, said of her need for more intimate theater.
Ana Margineanu, the 31-year-old Romanian theater and television director who will direct ''The Blind Trip'' at LaGuardia, had similar sentiments.
''I created this out of my need to offer people the chance to really experience something, to feel alive,'' she said. She walked a visitor through the spaces in the performing arts center where the performances, roughly 10 minutes, take place. The 25 actors work with scenarios written by playwrights from various countries. About 50 people can be accommodated on Thursday, and will watch a film as they await their turn to take the five-part journey.
Forcing the blindfolded audience member to choose whether to remain in the experience shows that ''we cannot have it all, but we are not aware of this,'' said Ms. Margineanu, who now lives in New York. She added, ''Being blindfolded, you know where you are but you're not sure, you have to redefine the world around you.''
Sometimes a site itself becomes a way to redefine reality, said Mr. Huber, the creator of ''Hotel Savoy,'' based on a short 1924 novel by Joseph Roth, about a former prisoner of war living in a hotel full of desperate people in transition. The Goethe-Institut building, at 1014 Fifth Avenue, near 82nd Street, will play the hotel here.
''My main thing is about reality and how to shift reality to let the audience experience the creation of illusion,'' said Mr. Huber, a set designer and director who lives in Berlin and Zurich and creates theatrical installations. ''The whole performance in Hotel Savoy is based on conversation: Why do we move around the world? What do we experience? I am interested in working with real places and real people. It's much more intriguing than something out of a microwave: it's cooking together.''
Aaron Landsman, the artist behind the 15-minute one-on-one show ''Appointment'' at N.Y.U. (it goes on to the FuseBox Festival in Austin, Tex., next year), has been making intimate, site-based performances for nine years. His ''Open House,'' put on by the Foundry Theater in 2008, did not play for an audience of one, but was staged in 24 real living rooms around New York, where small audiences were cast in the role of would-be apartment buyers as they watched a performance by actors playing a couple with financial problems.
''I'm really interested in the transactional nature of performance, the stuff that separates us from television and film,'' Mr. Landsman said. He figures he will have enough shows over three or four days to accommodate 100 people a day.
Vallejo Gantner, the artistic director of P.S. 122, expects intimate theater, whether one to one or as many as five to one, to grow in popularity.
''It's not just the numbers but much more about the theater of intimacy,'' Mr. Gantner said. ''I think audiences want this because it flings the challenge of creating meaning and interpretation back on the audience members. It's the way we've always imagined the virtual world, but it's alive.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At a rehearsal of ''The Blind Trip,'' its director, Ana Margineanu, center rear, takes the part of a blindfolded audience member. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); THEATER (90%); DANCE (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FESTIVALS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); MASSAGE SERVICES (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%); MUSIC (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (71%); GERMANY (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



686 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Amid Job Worries, Confidence in the Economy Wanes

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Americans' confidence in the economy eroded further in July, reflecting worries about the stubbornly stagnant job market. The consumer confidence report, released Tuesday, raised concerns about the overall economy and the back-to-school shopping season.
A second report released Tuesday showed an increase in home prices in May, but said much of it resulted from the expiration of tax credits for home buyers.
The Conference Board, a private research group, said that its Consumer Confidence Index slipped to 50.4 points in July, down from the revised 54.3 in June. Economists surveyed by Thomson Reuters had expected 51.0. The decline followed a drop of nearly 10 points in June, from 62.7 in May, which was the biggest since February, when the index fell 10 points. 
The second month of declining confidence followed three months of increases.
With unemployment stuck near 10 percent and the stock market having wiped out gains made early this year, Americans are reluctant to spend. A continuing stream of sobering economic data -- including disappointing job figures in May and June, and weak housing numbers -- is increasing worries that the economic recovery is stalling just as government stimulus programs are ending.
One component of the Consumer Confidence Index, which measures how people feel about the economy now, declined to 26.1, from 26.8. The other barometer, which measures respondents' outlook for the next six months, declined to 66.6, from 72.7 last month.
The overall index -- which measures how shoppers feel about business conditions, the job market and the next six months -- had been recovering fitfully since hitting a record low of 25.3 in February 2009.
Economists watch the number closely because consumer spending accounts for about 70 percent of American economic activity and is crucial to a strong recovery. A reading above 90 indicates the economy is on solid footing.
The Conference Board index, based on a survey mailed at random to 5,000 households from July 1 to July 21, showed that consumers' assessment of the job market was more negative than in the previous month. Those saying that jobs are ''hard to get'' increased to 45.8 from 43.5 percent, while those saying jobs are ''plentiful'' remained unchanged at 4.3 percent.
Consumers were also more downbeat about future job prospects. Those expecting more jobs in the months ahead declined to 14.3 percent from 16.2 percent, while those expecting fewer jobs rose to 21.1 percent from 20.1 percent. Consumers looking to an increase in their income declined to 10 percent from 10.6 percent.
The report on housing, the Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller index of home prices in 20 cities, which was released Tuesday, posted a 1.3 percent increase in May from April.
Nationally, prices have risen 5.1 percent from their April 2009 low. But they remain 29 percent below their July 2006 peak.
In the latest report, 19 of 20 cities showed price gains month over month.
Only Las Vegas recorded a price decline, for a record low in May. Home prices there have lost 56.4 percent of their value since peaking in August 2006.
While Detroit recorded a 0.7 percent increase from April, prices there are at levels not reached since 1994.
Over all, the gains underscored the impact of the home buying tax credits. Consumers rushed to buy before the credits expired at the end of April. The index is an average of home sales in March, April and May.
Sales of previously occupied homes fell 5.1 percent in June. Sales of new homes jumped in June, but it was the second-weakest month on record and followed a decline in May.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Las Vegas was the only city among the 20 in the Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller index of home prices to show a decline in May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACOB KEPLER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHART: Consumer Confidence: Index measures attitudes toward the economy, 1985 = 100. (Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



687 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: For Restaurants, It's Like Going Back to School

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
By the end of Wednesday, several restaurant windows in New York are quite likely to display a new attraction alongside the usual menus and reviews: a brilliantly colored placard bearing a letter grade.
But much less visible is the months-long effort by city health officials to prepare for this day -- the debut of their controversial new system to rate the cleanliness of the city's more than 24,000 restaurants with an A, B or C.
The Department of Health and Mental Hygiene has added 23 inspectors to its 157 to conduct annual visits that are expected to rise by more than one-third, to 85,000 from 60,000. The wireless hand-held computers that inspectors use to calculate scores have been upgraded with new hard drives, memory cards and software. 
The department's printing presses have produced 28,000 letter-grade placards and enough new procedural guides for every food establishment in the city. Workshops to help restaurant employees and operators understand the new system -- conducted in English, Spanish, Korean, Mandarin and Cantonese -- have attracted about 2,000 participants.
And starting Wednesday, a new Web site, nyc.gov/health/restaurants, will offer the public up-to-date specifics on each restaurant's inspection, as well as maps and even street views of the establishments.
''This is the biggest change we've implemented in many years,'' said Dr. Thomas Farley, commissioner of the health department, which has budgeted $3.2 million for the effort.
Public pressure exerted by the letter grades, Dr. Farley said, will ''force restaurants to be diligent about good food-safety practices.''
The city is not the only body gearing up. Two weeks ago, the New York State Restaurant Association, which has fought the grading system since it was first proposed 19 months ago, sent a letter to some 3,500 eating establishments, rallying opposition and raising money for a possible legal challenge, said Robert Bookman, legislative counsel for the group's New York City chapters.
''We don't know that the government can compel you to post a sign that expresses an opinion about your business that you do not share,'' Mr. Bookman said.
The new ratings will arrive piecemeal. During inspections on Wednesday, only the 8-by-10-inch placards designating an A grade are expected to be posted, since restaurants that receive a lower grade will automatically be inspected again at a later date. If the restaurants are still unhappy with their grade, they have the right to seek an administrative hearing.
Indeed, the first B's and C's may not be posted until late August, and rating placards will not reach all restaurants until fall 2011.
The new inspection rules require restaurateurs to post the placards prominently, displaying ratings that were previously available only at the health department or on its Web site. Failure to do so will be punishable by a $1,000 fine, with additional penalties for counterfeiting.
The placards have been knocked out at the rate of 6,000 an hour in the department's print shop in the basement of 80 Centre Street. The blue A card will correspond to 0 to 13 points under the old system, which imposed numerical penalties for each violation. A green B will designate a less sanitary 13 to 27 points, and an orange C will represent 28 points or more. A black-and-white ''grade pending'' sign will be posted in restaurants that are appealing their scores.
It is perhaps a measure of the department's optimism that Nicholas J. Monello, director of printing operations, said he had fulfilled orders for 9,375 A's -- more than the number of B's and C's combined. All have been numbered and embossed to prevent counterfeiting.
The department has replaced its paper documents with an electronic system to handle the increased demand that it expects for administrative tribunals, the courts that assess fines and adjudicate disputed inspections, said Daniel Kass, a deputy commissioner. For the first time, online settlements will be permitted, if restaurants acknowledge their violations in exchange for discounted fines.
More than 200 hand-held scoring devices have been rebuilt. Every unit ''had to be encrypted, which took from two to three hours for each,'' said Robert D. Edman, an assistant health commissioner.
''That's so that if they are lost,'' he continued, ''no one can access their information.''
Inspectors have attended four-hour training sessions on letter-grade issues, and health officials have held dozens of educational meetings with restaurant workers.
One morning this month, in the basement auditorium of the Queens Public Library in Flushing, Elliott S. Marcus, an associate health commissioner, answered questions from 70 restaurant workers and owners.
''You have to post the cards on a front window, door or exterior wall within five feet of the main street entrance, from four to six feet in height,'' Mr. Marcus said.
Many restaurateurs contend that the new system is confusing, and some have predicted a mass shuttering of businesses rated B and C. Through months of public debate, the department removed many inspection categories from the scoring process, so that restaurants would not receive low grades based on administrative violations like a failure to post informational signs. Some requirements, like those governing food temperature, have been relaxed.
Still, Mr. Bookman, counsel for the restaurant association, said, ''We don't think they went nearly far enough in making changes.''
At the Queens workshop, Anna Nikopoulos, owner of Pete's Cafe in Bayside, complained that ''they are trying to implement too much here in a recession.''
But Sarvjit Singh, owner of the Sohna Punjab restaurant in Bellerose, said he had no worries about maintaining a clean restaurant. ''I tell my chef he should be cooking as if he were eating that food,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DEGREES OF HYGIENE: Ron Riccardi prints placards bearing letter grades A, B and C that will be posted at the more than 24,000 restaurants in New York City.
AN EDUCATION: Charles Attoh, a health supervisor, at a workshop for owners in Flushing, Queens. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
IN THE FIELD: Training inspectors on new software. The city has hired 23 additional inspectors.
 UPGRADES: Health department technicians updated hundreds of hand-held computers for inspectors. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); INSPECTIONS (89%); FOOD SAFETY (75%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (72%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (69%); FUNDRAISING (69%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (62%); HARD DRIVES (54%); WEB SITES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



688 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Ruling Blocks Mayor's Plan To Require Hybrid Taxis

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration's years-long attempt to force the city's cab owners to switch from gas guzzlers to hybrid vehicles was rejected by a federal appeals court Tuesday morning.
The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit upheld a judge's 2009 ruling, in a suit brought by taxi fleet owners, that the city's rules amounted to an effort to mandate fuel economy and emissions standards, something that only the federal government is allowed to do.
If the city wants to appeal further, the next stop is the United States Supreme Court. A Law Department spokeswoman said officials were ''reviewing our options.'' 
The city's effort to force the changeover from the ubiquitous Ford Crown Victorias, which get 12 to 14 miles a gallon, to hybrids and other cleaner cars that get much better mileage dates to 2007, when the city issued a rule that all cabs put into service beginning October 2009 achieve at least 30 city miles per gallon.
After a federal judge blocked that rule, the city rolled out another, in March 2009, based on financial incentives. That rule allowed fleet owners to raise their lease rates to drivers by $3 per shift for hybrids and other clean cars, but forced them to drop their rates $12 per shift for Crown Victorias, creating a $15-per-shift difference between gas cars and hybrids.
The board of trade sued again, arguing that the $12-per-shift loss in income added up to cost owners around $6,000 per year for each Crown Victoria, a burden so great that it amounted to a de facto mandate to purchase a hybrid. (Fleet owners did not, however, object to being allowed to raise rates $3 per shift for hybrids. They did so immediately.)
In June 2009, the same judge, Paul A. Crotty of Federal District Court in Manhattan granted the preliminary injunction the board of trade requested, agreeing with the board of trade that the city's rules were preempted under both the federal Energy Policy and Conservation Act (also known as the E.P.C.A.) and the federal Clean Air Act. A preliminary injunction is granted when a judge considers that a plaintiff's argument is likely to succeed.
The city's appeal to the Second Circuit sought to strike down the injunction. In court papers, the city said its new rules, rather than usurping the federal government's authority to regulate fuel efficiency, corrected ''a structural problem with the standard vehicle lease arrangement that artificially insulates fleet owners from fuel costs.''
The Second Circuit did not seem impressed. It wrote in Tuesday's decision:The requirement that a taxi be a hybrid in order to qualify for the upwardly adjusted lease cap does nothing more than draw a distinction between vehicles with greater or lesser fuel-efficiency.Under the rules, the court added, '''hybrid' is simply a proxy for 'greater fuel efficiency.''' As to the city's argument that the board of trade's case was not likely to succeed, the Second Circuit was unequivocal.
The city's new rules, based expressly on the fuel economy of a leased vehicle, plainly fall within the scope of the E.P.C.A. preemption provision. The plaintiffs, therefore, have demonstrated a likelihood, indeed a certainty, of success on the merits.
In a statement, the city's chief lawyer, Michael Cardozo, its corporation counsel, said:We are very disappointed with the decision. We do not believe that Congress intended for the Clean Air Act or the Energy Policy and Conservation Act to prohibit local governments from implementing incentive programs that encourage the purchase of environmentally friendly taxis. Both laws were designed to reduce air pollution - which is exactly what moving to fuel efficient cabs would do.Currently, 3,715 taxis in the city, or about 28 percent of the total fleet, are hybrids or other clean-air vehicles.
The board of trade, which applauded the decision, called it ''an opportunity to work with the Taxi and Limousine Commission on achieving a taxi fleet that is safe, durable, affordable and fuel efficient.''
Taxi Decision
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPEALS COURTS (91%); HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INJUNCTIONS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (78%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); JUDGES (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); MAYORS (74%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



689 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: The Case for $320,000 Kindergarten Teachers

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
How much do your kindergarten teacher and classmates affect the rest of your life?
Economists have generally thought that the answer was not much. Great teachers and early childhood programs can have a big short-term effect. But the impact tends to fade. By junior high and high school, children who had excellent early schooling do little better on tests than similar children who did not -- which raises the demoralizing question of how much of a difference schools and teachers can make.
There has always been one major caveat, however, to the research on the fade-out effect. It was based mainly on test scores, not on a broader set of measures, like a child's health or eventual earnings. As Raj Chetty, a Harvard economist, says: ''We don't really care about test scores. We care about adult outcomes.''
Early this year, Mr. Chetty and five other researchers set out to fill this void. They examined the life paths of almost 12,000 children who had been part of a well-known education experiment in Tennessee in the 1980s. The children are now about 30, well started on their adult lives. 
On Tuesday, Mr. Chetty presented the findings -- not yet peer-reviewed -- at an academic conference in Cambridge, Mass. They're fairly explosive.
Just as in other studies, the Tennessee experiment found that some teachers were able to help students learn vastly more than other teachers. And just as in other studies, the effect largely disappeared by junior high, based on test scores. Yet when Mr. Chetty and his colleagues took another look at the students in adulthood, they discovered that the legacy of kindergarten had re-emerged.
Students who had learned much more in kindergarten were more likely to go to college than students with otherwise similar backgrounds. Students who learned more were also less likely to become single parents. As adults, they were more likely to be saving for retirement. Perhaps most striking, they were earning more.
All else equal, they were making about an extra $100 a year at age 27 for every percentile they had moved up the test-score distribution over the course of kindergarten. A student who went from average to the 60th percentile -- a typical jump for a 5-year-old with a good teacher -- could expect to make about $1,000 more a year at age 27 than a student who remained at the average. Over time, the effect seems to grow, too.
The economists don't pretend to know the exact causes. But it's not hard to come up with plausible guesses. Good early education can impart skills that last a lifetime -- patience, discipline, manners, perseverance. The tests that 5-year-olds take may pick up these skills, even if later multiple-choice tests do not.
Now happens to be a particularly good time for a study like this. With the economy still terribly weak, many people are understandably unsure about the value of education. They see that even college graduates have lost their jobs in the recession.
Barely a week seems to go by without a newspaper or television station running a report suggesting that education is overrated. These stories quote liberal groups, like the Economic Policy Institute, that argue that an education can't protect workers in today's global economy. Or they quote conservatives, like Charles Murray and Ramesh Ponnuru, who suggest that people who haven't graduated from college aren't smart enough to do so.
But the anti-education case usually relies on a combination of anecdotes and selective facts. In truth, the gap between the pay of college graduates and everyone else grew to a record last year, according to the Labor Department, and unemployment has risen far more for the less educated.
This is not simply because smart people -- people who would do well no matter what -- tend to graduate from college. Education itself can make a difference. A long line of economic research, by Julie Berry Cullen, James Heckman, Philip Oreopoulos and many others, has found as much. The study by Mr. Chetty and his colleagues is the latest piece of evidence.
The crucial problem the study had to solve was the old causation-correlation problem. Are children who do well on kindergarten tests destined to do better in life, based on who they are? Or are their teacher and classmates changing them?
The Tennessee experiment, known as Project Star, offered a chance to answer these questions because it randomly assigned students to a kindergarten class. As a result, the classes had fairly similar socioeconomic mixes of students and could be expected to perform similarly on the tests given at the end of kindergarten.
Yet they didn't. Some classes did far better than others. The differences were too big to be explained by randomness. (Similarly, when the researchers looked at entering and exiting test scores in first, second and third grades, they found that some classes made much more progress than others.)
Class size -- which was the impetus of Project Star -- evidently played some role. Classes with 13 to 17 students did better than classes with 22 to 25. Peers also seem to matter. In classes with a somewhat higher average socioeconomic status, all the students tended to do a little better.
But neither of these factors came close to explaining the variation in class performance. So another cause seemed to be the explanation: teachers.
Some are highly effective. Some are not. And the differences can affect students for years to come.
When I asked Douglas Staiger, a Dartmouth economist who studies education, what he thought of the new paper, he called it fascinating and potentially important. ''The worry has been that education didn't translate into earnings,'' Mr. Staiger said. ''But this is telling us that it does and that the fade-out effect is misleading in some sense.''
Mr. Chetty and his colleagues -- one of whom, Emmanuel Saez, recently won the prize for the top research economist under the age of 40 -- estimate that a standout kindergarten teacher is worth about $320,000 a year. That's the present value of the additional money that a full class of students can expect to earn over their careers. This estimate doesn't take into account social gains, like better health and less crime.
Obviously, great kindergarten teachers are not going to start making $320,000 anytime soon. Still, school administrators can do more than they're doing.
They can pay their best teachers more, as Pittsburgh soon will, and give them the support they deserve. Administrators can fire more of their worst teachers, as Michelle Rhee, the Washington schools chancellor, did last week. Schools can also make sure standardized tests are measuring real student skills and teacher quality, as teachers' unions have urged.
Given today's budget pressures, finding the money for any new programs will be difficult. But that's all the more reason to focus our scarce resources on investments whose benefits won't simply fade away.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Emmanuel Saez, Danny Yagan, Raj Chetty, Nathaniel Hilger, Diane Schanzenbach and John Friedman examined the lives of almost 12,000 children in an education experiment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) CHARTS: CHART (A1)
Long-Term Payoff for a Good Start in School: An experiment in Tennessee in the 1980s randomly assigned students to kindergarten classes. Yet the classes performed very differently on end-of-year tests -- much more differently than could be explained by randomness -- suggesting that students in some classes learned more than students in others. Those who learned more went on to earn more as adults, a new study shows. (Source: Raj Chetty, John N. Friedman, Nathaniel Hilger and Danny Yagan, Harvard
Emmanuel Saez, U.C. Berkeley
 Diane Schanzenbach, Northwestern) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (93%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (91%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); PARENTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (87%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



690 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: Near Yale, a 32-Story Gamble Rises in New Haven

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
NEW HAVEN -- This city of 123,000 has long struggled to reconcile its two faces: The intellectual oasis of Yale University and the upscale area it has spawned, and a more turbulent side that includes the 1970 Black Panther trials, a recent Supreme Court ruling that white firefighters had been unfairly denied promotions because of their race and crime that still plagues parts of the city.
One potential bridge for that gap is a new $190 million high-rise project downtown that includes mixed-income housing, street-level stores, indoor parking and what is billed as the country's largest alternative energy source for a residential building, a 400-kilowatt fuel cell that generates electricity.
Called 360 State Street, the 700,000 square-foot 32-story building is in a prime but cheerless pocket within walking distance of Yale. With 500 apartments and luxury penthouses, it is the second-tallest building in the city. 
The tower is the product of Bruce Redman Becker, the president of Becker & Becker of Fairfield, which designed and developed the project.
In a world of megadevelopers and celebrity architects (Mr. Becker is not among them), it is highly unusual for one person to practice both disciplines. Mr. Becker, 51, holds degrees from the School of Architecture and the School of Management at Yale.
Becker & Becker has done similar projects in other dense urban areas, including the Octagon Project on Roosevelt Island, the two-mile-long sliver of land in the East River between Manhattan and Queens, and the Fairfield Apartments in Bridgeport, Conn., a rough-and-tumble city near the affluent towns of Fairfield County.
Mr. Becker is hoping to attract about half his tenants from the Yale graduate student and medical community connected with Yale. He hopes the remaining renters will consist of retired professors, empty-nesters looking to downsize and professionals who want to use New Haven as a springboard to New York.
About 50 renters are moving in starting on Sunday, and an additional 60 who put down deposits are signing leases. Mr. Becker expects the building to be fully filled with some 1,000 occupants within two years.
At the city's insistence, 50 studio and one-bedroom apartments will be reserved for lower-income renters, including 20 units to those with Section 8 vouchers, which sometimes go to the homeless; more than 1,000 applicants are already vying for the slots.
For a single tenant with an income of $43,360 to $67,368 -- at the upper end of the median income level for the area -- a subsidized studio or one bedroom will rent for about $1,000 a month, compared with $1,350 to $1,500 for other tenants.
The Section 8 units will cost several hundred dollars, depending on the tenant's income. The market rate for a three-bedroom penthouse with a terrace is $5,000 -- reasonable by Manhattan standards, but high for New Haven.
The subsidized apartments, with granite countertops, sleek kitchen appliances and a washer and dryer in each unit, will be no different stylistically from the market-rate ones. Mr. Becker had to delay plans for a day care center after state subsidies failed to come through.
But will graduate students, who typically seek two-bedroom apartments in the city's East Rock section for around $1,300 a month, have the money and desire to pay more? ''We think they will,'' Mr. Becker said, citing a downtown apartment vacancy rate of 1 percent.
The project has drawn some critics, who say that a large percentage of low-income residents will not be able to afford even the subsidized units, which are on the lower levels, and that wealthier tenants may not want to walk past discount nail salons and wig shops to reach the museums, fashionable boutiques and restaurants of the city's Chapel Street retail area.
Alan J. Plattus, an architecture professor at Yale and the director of the Yale Urban Design Workshop, questioned whether there was enough demand to support the project. He said the mixed-use high-rise signaled that ''residential development, not commercial development, is the future of downtown.''
But Professor Plattus, who is not involved with 360 State Street, criticized the decision to build what he called ''an aircraft carrier of parking'' on the ground floors -- ''you need to encourage people to be auto-independent'' -- and the proximity to the noise of State Street Station.
The building, at the corner of State and Chapel Streets, is across the street from the station, a stop for Shore Line East and most Metro North trains. But it is a 10-minute walk from Union Station, the main point from which most people catch the 90-minute train ride to New York.
The high-rise was built by the Suffolk Construction Company of Boston on one and half acres of what had been a surface parking lot for more than 40 years, after the local Shartenberg department store was razed in an ill-fated effort at urban renewal.
Mr. Becker's firm bought the land for $1, a sign of how eager city officials were to transform the area. Kelly Murphy, the director of the city's Office of Economic Development, said that the tower ''represented the future of New Haven.''
Then he found a major investor in the Multi-Employer Property Trust, a real-estate-oriented investment fund based in Washington that invests on behalf of union pension plans.
The trust invested $150 million. The State of Connecticut contributed $9.9 million for the parking garage; an additional $6 million came from a new Treasury Department tax credit program for development in lower-income areas; and United Illuminating, a local utility, put in $3 million. The remaining $10 million came from Becker & Becker, local community banks and a private equity firm.
Amenities for renters include a yoga room, a library, a film screening room, a rooftop heated swimming pool and five Zipcars, which can be rented by the hour.
The project has 30,000 square feet of commercial space. The Devil's Gear, a local bicycle shop, has agreed to move in, and Mr. Becker said he was working out details for a co-op-style supermarket on the ground floor.
After Trader Joe's and Whole Foods declined space on the ground level, Mr. Becker looked at City Market co-op in Burlington, Vt., a hybrid conventional-organic store that has some $30 million a year in sales, as a model. The version at 360 State Street, the Elm City Food Co-op, will sell conventional food and local items from 200 vendors, and will be the only full-service grocery store in the area.
The Multi-Employer Property Trust will put half of the $7 million needed into the store, which will open next spring, while community lenders, the Cooperative Fund of New England and private individual investors have promised to invest the rest.
Mr. Becker has waged a battle with United Illuminating over the question of whether the fuel cell's energy will go straight to the residents -- his preference -- or flow out to the grid and come back into the building via the utility. In the latter proposal, which is under negotiation, the tower's fuel cell, the size of a shipping container, will generate electricity that the utility will buy for about 15 cents a kilowatt hour and sell back to tenants for around 21 cents. Each apartment will also pay $16 a month for an individual meter.
Jennifer Gangi, the program director of Fuel Cells 2000, a nonprofit environment group in Washington, said that while fuel cells were common in residential buildings in Europe, they were just catching on in America. ''This is the way things are going to go,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The 360 State Street complex has 500 apartments, including penthouses, and the area's only full-service grocery.
 Bruce R. Becker, the president of Becker & Becker, designed and developed the $190 million project on the site of the old Shartenberg store. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CITIES (78%); LITIGATION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (75%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (74%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (74%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (70%); EMPTY NESTERS (62%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (57%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



691 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A. to Propose New Fare Increases for Buses and Trains

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
New Yorkers will soon be asked to pay more to ride trains and buses that just weeks ago suffered the severest service cuts in a generation. The series of fare increases will be unveiled on Wednesday by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
By Jan. 1, when the increases would take effect, the heaviest users of the city's subways and buses could be paying as much as $104 instead of $89 for a monthly system pass. Drivers who use E-ZPass on many of the city's tunnels and bridges would pay 10 percent more per trip, and rail commuters could face the frustration of longer lines to buy tickets. 
The unlimited subway and bus MetroCard, which pushed ridership to record levels after its introduction in the 1990s and revolutionized the way New Yorkers imagine their transit system, could also be on the way out. One proposal would place limits on how many rides could be taken on monthly and weekly passes.
Officials at the authority say they can avoid additional service cuts this year as a result of layoffs and cost-cutting. And instead of an across-the-board fare increase, as in years past, the authority would make a variety of smaller tweaks to the myriad ticket types available.
But the heaviest burden may be placed on the third of subway passengers who use 30-day passes. This group will end up with one of two evils: spending $99 for a monthly pass that would be limited to 90 rides or paying $104 for an unlimited pass. Officials said that they would solicit feedback from the public before making a decision.
Both proposals will be on the table on Wednesday as the authority's board weighs a set of actions that would affect nearly every user of the region's buses, subways, railroads and bridges. The proposals must still be debated at public hearings and will not face a final vote until October. But many of the bleak plans laid out by the authority earlier this year have since come to pass.
The agency lost a significant amount of state money last fall, and tax revenues intended to finance mass transit have fallen far short of projections, leading to the elimination of two subway lines and dozens of bus routes last month.
So barring a governmental miracle -- rare these days in New York -- commuters from Long Island and Westchester County would pay up to 9.4 percent more for tickets, depending on the route, and the authority would end the discounts now offered for tickets purchased online or via the mail.
The authority also plans to eliminate one of the small, quiet pleasures of commuting life: that moment of discovering an old spare railroad ticket in one's wallet. Under the change, those old tickets would be worthless, expiring after a week instead of the current six months for one-way tickets and after three months instead of a year for the popular 10-trip ticket packs.
William Henderson, executive director of the Permanent Citizens Advisory Committee, a riders' advocacy group, predicted that the changes would create more demand for ticket purchases inside stations, which could delay passengers.
''You buy a ticket in advance, just to have it, because at some point you're going to be running to a train,'' Mr. Henderson said. ''Now you're going to have longer lines at the ticket windows and longer lines at the machines.''
The commuter rails would also tack on a $15 fee for ticket refunds, a sum that would in most cases be larger than the refund itself. Officials said the idea was to discourage passengers from improperly retrieving their fares in the event a conductor neglected to take their ticket.
Drivers who use E-ZPass on many of the region's tunnels and bridges would be charged 10 percent more per trip, raising the cost on most crossings to $5.04 from $4.57.
The George Washington Bridge, the Lincoln Tunnel and the Holland Tunnel, which are not operated by the transportation authority, would not be affected.
About a third of bus and subway riders purchase a few MetroCard rides at a time, in order to receive a discount for buying in bulk. That discount would be reduced by about 7 percent, so riders would pay about $2.10 a ride, instead of $1.96, officials said. Riders would also be required to buy $10 worth of tickets to earn the discount, rather than $8.
The fare increase is expected to save $413 million in 2011, according to the authority. The next increase is not scheduled until 2013, but officials warned that a worsening in the economy, or a lack of concessions from labor unions, could again place the authority in a financial bind.
Mr. Henderson, of the riders' group, said that the authority knew it could raise fares on subway passes because riders had few options. ''As long as the fare stays within some envelope of reasonableness, they're going to buy the card,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (72%); LAYOFFS (67%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (55%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



692 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Stop Raiding the Ivory Tower

BYLINE: By PETER D. SALINS. 
Peter D. Salins, a former provost of the State University of New York, is a professor of political science at the State University at Stony Brook.

 BODY:
Stony Brook, N.Y.
IT is not a disagreement about expenditures or taxes that is preventing the New York State Legislature from passing a 2011 budget. No, it is a piece of legislation called the Public Higher Education Empowerment and Innovation Act, which has the enthusiastic backing of Gov. David Paterson and grudging approval from the State Senate, but is bitterly opposed by the Assembly and its speaker, Sheldon Silver.
This bill would allow the state's two public university systems, the City University of New York and the State University of New York, to set their own tuition rates and give them the freedom to raise additional revenue to compensate for the $840 million in budget cuts the state has imposed on them over the last three years. Such a move is long overdue, especially considering that most of the money for SUNY and CUNY no longer comes from state taxpayers. 
Look at SUNY's budget: out of a total annual system-wide expenditure of $11 billion, only $3.5 billion is from the state. The other 68 percent comes from students, research foundations, generous donors and clients of the university's health centers and other facilities. The CUNY proportions are comparable. As a top SUNY financial official recently told me, New York is ''only a minority shareholder'' in its public universities.
However, state legislators treat all of this non-taxpayer money as if it were theirs to collect and disburse. Despite cutting the universities' budgets, lawmakers have raised tuition -- by $620 for the 2009-2010 semesters, and again by $100 for the coming school year -- and then kept about 90 percent of the resulting revenues. They even want to control how the universities spend some of their outside grants and donations.
The higher education act would allow both CUNY and SUNY to set their tuition levels without the Legislature's approval and keep all the resulting revenue, accept and retain all money from research grants and philanthropic gifts, more easily enter into contracts with private vendors and enterprise partners, streamline hospital operations, fast-track campus construction and lease parts of their campuses to other parties for academically appropriate purposes.
These new freedoms would be hemmed in by restrictions to maintain student affordability, prevent financial abuses and safeguard the universities' primary academic missions. Tuition increases would be kept below the Higher Education Price Index, the most widely used gauge of national college cost inflation; all expenditures and contracts would still be subject to stringent state accounting rules; and land leases and contracts would be overseen by newly established state boards, just to mention a few of the bill's many constraints.
These ideas are not new. During the 1980s, when Clifton Wharton was the chancellor of SUNY and Mario Cuomo was governor, a commission appointed by the SUNY trustees advocated something quite similar. In the years since, the SUNY board has repeatedly pleaded for a ''rational tuition policy'' that would end the tendency of the Legislature to keep tuition frozen during economic good times when parents might be able to afford increases, only to impose substantial increases during recessions, as happened this year.
Given this history, it is surprising and heartening that the public higher education act has even gotten this far. But there could be no better time: Beyond the immediate benefits for CUNY's and SUNY's students and managers, this legislation could help resuscitate the state's moribund economy. After all, the education of more than 700,000 degree-earning students on 87 campuses contributes tens of billions of dollars a year to the state economy. What's more, research at the state universities has long played a vital role in New York's high technology industries.
The M.R.I. was invented at SUNY's Downstate Medical Center. The bar code reader was developed at SUNY Stony Brook. SUNY Albany's College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering is working on a new generation of computer chips. SUNY Buffalo's growing life sciences center is a major engine of the local economy, which is why Buffalo's Democratic state senator, William Stachowski, won't sign on to a budget deal without the public higher education act.
The Assembly's opposition, ostensibly out of concern for student affordability, is both misplaced and insincere. It is misplaced because New York's Tuition Assistance Program underwrites, on a sliding scale tied to their level of need, low-income students' tuition burden. And it is insincere because the state has not, over the long term, kept tuition levels below the higher education price index. As we've seen, not only does the Legislature increase tuition in huge leaps at the most economically inopportune times, it then retains the tuition revenue to offset losses in general tax receipts.
At the same time, the governor's endorsement of this bill may rest as much on fiscal necessity as on its merits. CUNY and SUNY are among the few state entities whose budgets are not held hostage by politically powerful interest groups like unionized health care workers and teachers, so giving the schools the ability to raise their tuition as needed would make it easier for the state to significantly reduce its contributions to them. Whatever his motive, however, the governor is right and the Assembly is wrong.
Unless CUNY and SUNY can count on stable and predictable revenues, and have the flexibility to use them effectively to assure a high quality of instruction and research, these great universities will slowly wither, taking the state's economy along with them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); BUDGETS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); TUITION FEES (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); CHARITIES (75%); MAJOR GIFTS (75%); FOUNDATIONS (74%); PHILANTHROPY (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (66%); PROPERTY LEASES (60%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



693 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Regulators Lobby To Shape Overhaul

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As the battle over toughened financial restrictions moves to a new front, the regulatory agencies that will create hundreds of new rules for the nation's banks will face a lobbying blitz from companies intent on softening the blow. And many of the lobbyists the regulators hear from will be their former colleagues.
Nearly 150 lobbyists registered since last year used to work in the executive branch at financial agencies, from lawyers for the Securities and Exchange Commission to Federal Reserve bankers, according to data analyzed for The New York Times by the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan research group.
In addition, dozens of former lawyers for the government, who are not registered as lobbyists, are now scouring the financial regulations on behalf of corporate clients. 
''The headhunters are out in force'' to recruit former government regulators as lawyers and lobbyists, said Lawrence Kaplan, who was a senior lawyer at the government's Office of Thrift Supervision and now works on banking regulation at the Washington law firm Paul Hastings.
''I get calls practically every day,'' he said. ''You want people who know what they're doing, and the government background builds your bona fides. It's a credential that you flaunt.''
Lobbying and law firms here have always turned to former regulators to navigate the bureaucracies of Washington. But the financial regulations passed by Congress and signed into law by President Obama have left most of the real decision-making to the S.E.C. and other agencies, making these agencies more powerful than ever. On a scale that analysts say they have never seen, government regulatory agencies will spend the coming years enacting rules on everything from the definition of a ''systemically important'' mega-bank to limits on debit card fees.
Federal agencies will decide the details of at least 243 financial rules and conduct 67 studies, according to an assessment by the Davis Polk law firm.
The S.E.C. alone is responsible for developing 95 rules on topics like the trading of derivatives, standards for credit rating agencies and disclosure of executive bonuses. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission must develop 61 rules, the Federal Reserve has 54, and two agencies just created by Congress -- the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the Financial Stability Oversight Council -- have 80 rules between them.
Credit card companies will look to maintain higher fees on debit cards. Derivatives investors will seek to define themselves as ''end users'' of a particular product who should be exempted from some restrictions. Niche industries like payday lenders and check-cashing services will push for less burdensome federal regulation. And in many cases, the industries will rely on former regulators to make their cases to the federal agencies.
Many directives in the Congressional legislation are written so broadly that the agencies have wide discretion in drafting rules.
''It's 2,300 pages that affect every facet of the financial services industry,'' said Justin Daly, a former counsel at the S.E.C. ''If you look at a lot of the important provisions, Congress delegates authority to the agencies to make the really tough determinations. There's no question that this bill empowers regulators in a way that we've never seen before.''
Mr. Daly will now be working those issues from the other side -- as a lobbyist. He left the S.E.C. in February and joined the lobbying firm of Ogilvy Government Relations. Although Mr. Daly was a senior lawyer at the S.E.C., he was not senior enough to fall under a one-year ''cooling off'' period that bans lobbying by former employees.
Last week, Ogilvy, fourth among lobbying shops last year with $21.7 million in revenue, brought in another former government regulator to work with Mr. Daly -- De'Ana Dow, a lawyer at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for 22 years until 2002. In announcing Ms. Dow's hiring, Ogilvy stressed the government resumes that she and Mr. Daly brought to the job and said the pair had ''the experience and expertise to provide tremendous value to our clients as the regulatory agencies implement the legislation.''
According to the analysis done by the Center for Responsive Politics, nearly 500 officials have gone through the ''revolving door'' between government financial agencies and the private sector. Of that group, 148 former regulatory officials were registered to lobby the government last year or this year, representing virtually every regulatory agency.
Executives at some leading law firms and lobbying shops said in interviews that they began increasing their hiring of former regulators in 2008, soon after the economic crisis hit, in anticipation of the current push for tougher regulations.
These past associations can be influential. Government officials and lobbyists agree that former agency officials have a much easier time getting phone calls or e-mail messages returned from their old colleagues, and that access often extends to greater credibility in arguing their clients' positions.
One corporate lobbyist who worked as a regulator, asked whether he believed he had an inside edge in lobbying his ex-colleagues, said: ''The answer is yes, it does. If it didn't, I wouldn't be able to justify getting out of bed in the morning and charging the outrageous fees that we charge our clients, which they willingly pay.''
The lobbyist, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of concerns about alienating government officials, added that ''you have to work at an agency to understand the culture and the pressure points, and it helps to know the senior staff.''
But that access and familiarity has proved problematic at times for regulators, particularly at the S.E.C. The issue has received so much attention that the financial legislation approved by Congress directs the Government Accountability Office to do a review of the revolving-door problem at the S.E.C.
In addition, the inspector general for the agency has identified a number of recent investigations in which ex-agency lawyers appeared to have undue influence with their former colleagues in matters involving current and former major firms like JPMorgan Chase, Bear Stearns and the Stanford Financial Group, which was implicated in a multimillion-dollar Ponzi scheme.
In one case, an S.E.C. official, asked about the agency's lenient treatment of an equity firm suspected of fraudulent practices, said he had probably given the company ''the benefit of the doubt'' because it was represented by a former S.E.C. official.
Generally, most senior officials at federal regulatory agencies are banned from lobbying their former agencies for a year after leaving the government. The Obama administration has gone further in imposing restrictions on its political appointees once they leave the government.
Craig Holman, a government affairs lobbyist at Public Citizen, a watchdog group that has studied the revolving door, said he was hopeful that the new restrictions might help prevent corporate lobbyists ''from capturing the agencies that regulate them.''
For their part, the regulatory agencies say they are girding for the intense interest their deliberations will draw.
''We believe that hearing from all interested parties leads to better rule-making,'' said John Heine, a spokesman for the S.E.C. To ensure transparency, he said the agency would take public comments even before its proposals were issued, and anyone wanting to meet with staff members would be asked to submit a written agenda that would become part of the public record.
Online Correction: July 27, 2010, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article reversed the name of the law firm Davis Polk.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Securities and Exchange Commission office in Washington. The financial overhaul directed the S.E.C. to develop 95 rules. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); BANKING LAW (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (76%); FUTURES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (67%); CREDIT CARDS (62%); DEBIT CARDS (62%); CREDIT BUREAUS (60%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: DAVIS POLK & WARDWELL LLP (84%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (57%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



694 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1491 words

HEADLINE: Governments in Europe Warming to Online Gambling

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

 BODY:
PARIS -- Across Europe, cash-strapped governments looking for ways to reduce yawning budget gaps are embracing online gambling, a source of revenue they once viewed with wary skepticism.
While U.S. opposition to Internet betting has centered on concerns about gambling addiction, European politicians previously objected for a different reason: liberalizing the practice, they feared, would undermine state-sponsored lottery monopolies and gambling operators.
But more and more gamblers are spurning land-based casinos anyway, and logging on to Internet poker and sports betting sites -- many of them based in places that are out of reach of tax collectors. As public finances worsen, governments are trying to bring this once-shadowy business into the mainstream of Europe's digital economy, where it can be regulated and taxed.
''What's happened is a realization that you can't uninvent the Internet,'' said David Trunkfield, a consultant at PricewaterhouseCoopers. ''People are gaming online. You either try to regulate and tax it, or people are going to go to the offshore operators, where you don't get any revenue.'' 
France, which only four years ago jailed the top executives of an Austrian Internet gambling company, Bwin, when they visited France, last month permitted private companies like Bwin to start taking bets online, in competition with publicly owned gambling sites. Denmark approved legislation in June authorizing a similar shift. Greece plans within weeks to introduce a bill legalizing online gambling, which is currently banned.
Others considering liberalization include Switzerland, Spain and Germany. They are all following Britain, which in 2005 became the first big country in Europe to confer respectability on the business, and Italy, which has been phasing in legalized Internet betting over the past three years.
Europe has grown into the biggest online gambling market in the world, accounting for an estimated $12.5 billion of the industry's $29.3 billion total revenue this year, according to H2 Gambling Capital, a consulting firm. If all of that activity were taxed, it could potentially raise billions every year, though the exact amount is hard to predict, given uncertainty over the tax rates that might be applied.
The growth online contrasts with the state of the old-fashioned casino business in many European countries. In France, for instance, land-based casinos have suffered double-digit revenue declines in recent years. In Britain, plans for a giant, Las Vegas-style casino in Manchester were scrapped two years ago, and even the country's ubiquitous betting shops have started to suffer.
In other big gambling markets like the United States and China, online betting is also widely practiced, though officially banned. A U.S. law banning financial transactions related to online gambling, which was passed in 2006, took full effect this year.
Representative Barney Frank, a Democrat from Massachusetts, has proposed legislation to effectively overturn that law and legalize online gambling; the House of Representatives Financial Services Committee has been debating the bill over the past week, but previous efforts to overturn the 2006 law have faltered.
Meanwhile, lawmakers in several U.S. states, including New Jersey, California and Florida, have independently floated proposals for legalizing some kinds of online gambling, taking advantage of what supporters call a loophole in the 2006 federal law, potentially permitting such activity as long as it does not cross state borders. So far, however, no U.S. states have actually gone as far as British Columbia, in Canada, which has legalized some kinds of online gambling.
Rather than highlighting the potential revenue-generating benefits, European lawmakers generally cite two main arguments for bringing the activity aboveboard. One is a desire to protect problem gamblers by regulating the sites; the other is pressure from the European Union, which claims that some members have been using restrictions on online sites as a way to protect state-controlled casino operators from competition.
Less often mentioned is money. But analysts say it is no coincidence that the new push for legalization has come at a time when governments are under growing strain.
''I think the penny has dropped,'' said Simon Holliday, an analyst at H2 Gambling Capital. ''They deregulate a little bit, like what happens and deregulate more. The governments get more addicted to the tax than the players to the games.''
France, which started allowing private companies to offer online sports betting just in time for the World Cup soccer tournament, said that in the first month gamblers opened more than 1.2 million new accounts, betting 83 million, or $108 million, on licensed sites. That was nearly twice as much as the amount legally wagered online in the comparable period a year earlier, when state-run betting sites were the only option. As of this month, those numbers should rise further, analysts say, with the start of legal online poker, which was previously banned.
The French government has not said how much tax revenue it has generated from the change in the law. But Italy says it collected about 150 million in taxes last year as a result of a partial liberalization of the business.
Now Italy, which previously legalized Internet sports betting and low-stakes online poker, is moving to open up further; it recently authorized higher-stakes poker, as well as Internet casinos offering games like roulette. Analysts say tax receipts could surge. The Italian government has been more forthcoming than others about its intention to raise revenue from online gambling, linking the latest legislation to a fund-raising package for the Abruzzo region, which was struck by an earthquake last year.
Liberalizing the rules on online gambling has not always created a boon for governments. Britain, for example, has found tax revenue elusive, despite being an early mover.
The problem is that while Britain has legalized Internet betting, it has not required operators to obtain a license and pay taxes in Britain. Many sites, therefore, have continued to serve British gamblers from tax havens like Gibraltar. Two big British betting companies, Ladbrokes and William Hill, moved their online operations to Gibraltar last year to take advantage of lower taxes.
Companies that want to operate legally in France, by contrast, must secure a local license, abide by French regulations and agree to pay French taxes. Unlicensed sites continue to operate in France, too, though regulators have already sent out warnings to a number of operators, threatening prosecution if they do not shut down.
Some companies that operated in France's gray market before the online betting legislation came into force have chosen to withdraw rather than meet what they say are onerous restrictions. One of these sites is Betfair, a London-based sports betting ''exchange,'' which lets people to bet on odds set by other gamblers, rather than a bookmaker.
Tim Phillips, director of European public affairs at Betfair, said the French legislation was unfair to betting exchanges because it taxed every single transaction conducted by a gambler, rather than the overall winnings. Users of betting exchanges sometimes employ multiple, offsetting bets on a single game; some of these they might win, while losing others, but under the French system they are taxed on all of them.
''Our view is that the French are trying to turn back the clock and say, 'We don't want you to bet like this,' in order to protect the offline business,'' which is still state-controlled, Mr. Phillips said.
For online gambling companies that have lobbied European governments to open up to Internet betting, ''it looks like a case of be careful what you wish for,'' he added.
Betfair is among a number of companies that are lobbying the European Commission to set common standards for online gambling across the Union. That way, operators based in one E.U. country could serve gamblers in the other 26 member states, as companies in other lines of business are often already able to do.
Michel Barnier, the E.U. internal market commissioner, plans to publish proposals on the issue by the end of the year, according to a spokeswoman, Carmel Dunne.
So far, the commission has let member states go their own ways, pursuing enforcement actions against individual countries that are deemed to have violated E.U. rules against protectionism.
Mr. Phillips at Betfair said greater harmonization could bolster the European economy by helping Europe-based online gambling operators maintain the competitive edge they now enjoy over betting companies in other regions, where the practice remains illegal.
''The gambling business is one of Europe's real success stories online,'' Mr. Phillips said. ''This is a business in which Europe leads the world.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Valentine Proust placed an online bet from Paris last month for the World Cup soccer match between France and Uruguay. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BERTRAND LANGLOIS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (96%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); POKER (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); TAX LAW (75%); ACCOUNTING (73%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); LOTTERIES (56%)

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (89%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (54%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (51%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (51%) EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); DENMARK (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CHINA (79%); GREECE (58%); ENGLAND (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



695 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Gloom Among Consumers Leads to a Mixed Finish

BYLINE: By SUSANNA G. KIM

 BODY:
Wall Street struggled Tuesday on reports that consumers had become more pessimistic about the job market and the overall economic recovery.
The major indexes started higher after an upbeat outlook from the chemical company DuPont and a mildly optimistic report on housing prices. But they later turned flat after the Conference Board said its index of consumer confidence slipped to 50.4 in July, down from a revised 54.3 in June.
''Despite better-than-expected earnings reports, especially last week, unfortunately the economic data continue to be weaker than expectations,'' said Conrad F. DeQuadros, and economist with RDQ Economics. With consumer spending accounting for about 70 percent of the overall economy, analysts closely watch the moods swings of Americans as guideposts to the recovery. 
Analysts said that many Americans were worried about the weak labor market. In its survey of 5,000 households, the Conference Board found that the percentage of consumers who said jobs were difficult to obtain increased to 45.8 percent in July, from 43.5 percent in June.
''This suggests hiring remains few and far between,'' said Ryan W. Sweet, senior economist with Moody's Analytics. And until companies begin hiring and unemployment falls, many analysts expect consumers to remain reluctant to open their wallets.
''Over all, this report is consistent with recent economic indicators which have been on the low side of expectations,'' Mr. Sweet said of the Conference Board report, released after news of modest gains in private jobs and weak existing-home sales data. ''We think the recovery is going to be very vulnerable this summer before growth accelerates during the fourth quarter of this year and into 2011.''
The Dow Jones industrial average ended the day up 12.26 points, or 0.12 percent, to 10,537.69. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 0.10 percent, or 1.17 points, to 1,113.84, and the Nasdaq was down 0.36 percent, or 8.18 points, to 2,288.25.
In the bond market, the price of a 10-year Treasury note declined 16/32, to 103 25/32. The yield rose to 3.05 percent, from 2.99 percent late Monday.
Stronger earnings news from several companies failed to help the markets keep their momentum. DuPont beat analyst expectations, reporting second-quarter income of $1.2 billion and revenue of $8.6 billion. DuPont also raised its outlook for the year to $2.90 to $3.05 a share, from $2.50 to $2.70. Shares of DuPont were up 3.57 percent, to $40.38.
Lexmark, the maker of printers, announced a 14 percent increase in revenue, to $1.03 billion, in the second quarter. The company also raised its outlook for the third quarter. Shares of Lexmark increased 8.47 percent, to $37.76.
Despite the consumer confidence report, some analysts saw positive signals.
''I think what's driving the market now is a growing view that at minimum the economy will muddle through, that double-dip risks have evaporated and the downdraft in the stock market during the spring was overdone,'' said David A. Rosenberg, chief economist and strategist with Gluskin Sheff. ''For a variety of reasons there's a general view that even though the economy may be on soft ground, it's less soft than what was previously perceived at the margin.''
Other indicators in the next couple of weeks, including Friday's report on second-quarter gross domestic product and the unemployment report late next week, could bolster the markets.
In the latest snapshot on housing, the Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller index of home prices in 20 cities increased 1.3 percent in May from April, on a nonseasonally adjusted basis.
Economists said a federal housing credit distorted prices upward as homebuyers took advantage of the offer that expired at the end of April.
''It's encouraging to see prices edge up a little bit. Unfortunately, it's going to be short-lived,'' Mr. Sweet, of Moody's Analytics, said. ''More foreclosures are going to hit the market, which will put additional downward pressure on prices. Overall housing prices have been choppy, but they're not going to bottom until early next year.''
Last week the National Association of Realtors reported the median existing-home price in June was 1 percent higher than a year ago, at $183,700. Existing-home sales slipped 5.1 percent in June to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.37 million units.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BONDS (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CHEMICALS MFG (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); EXISTING HOME SALES (70%); PRINTER MFG (60%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%)

COMPANY: LEXMARK INTERNATIONAL INC (80%)

TICKER: LXK (NYSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (80%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



696 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Delta's Black Oystermen Seeking Cleanup Work and Clinging to Hope

BYLINE: By TRYMAINE LEE

 BODY:
POINTE A LA HACHE, La. -- Way down in the delta, just south of the Belle Chasse Ferry at Beshel's Marina here, black men with work-worn hands and several generations of fishing in their blood sat around on old milk crates, hoping for a piece of the oil cleanup action that seems to have bypassed their little stretch of the bayou.
Nearly all of them have taken BP's courses on oil cleanup, but few said they had been called to work; their little skiffs remain moored and forlorn, tied side-by-side like wretched sardines.
''The little guy loses again,'' one of them lamented. 
There was Hurricane Katrina five years ago. And now the great spill.
But even before those two blows, the fishermen in Pointe a la Hache and other small, historically African-American fishing towns and villages that dot the east bank of the Mississippi River in Plaquemines Parish, south of New Orleans, have long had to fight hard for every dollar, every oyster and every opportunity they could drag out of the bayou.
In decades past they have dealt with the red-lining of leases on the richest oyster beds and waterways. In the 1970s and '80s they said they fought the laws against hand-dredging that disproportionately limited the work of the black oystermen. Many have been nudged out by the major fishing operations owned mostly by native whites and Europeans. And they have even had to compete with migrant Hispanic workers who are willing to work for little, and who filled the void when Hurricane Katrina ran off so many of the locals.
The very way of life in these fishing villages has been in danger as younger generations opted for work in other industries, like the local coal processing plant, or moved in search of education and fresh opportunities.
''You might see a time when there ain't no more black fishermen around here,'' said Warren Duplessis, 49, a deckhand for a two-man oystering operation. ''Because now you can't raise no children off the side of a boat. Nowadays you've got to take him out of here, let him learn something with the books. No future in what we've been bleeding and sweating for all our lives.''
With so many deckhands making so little money, maybe $100 a day, much of what they did make, in cash, was never reported. But now, to get loans to recoup on damages or lost income, or to be compensated by BP, they said they needed to show documents to prove how much they made.
''Their issues are institutional and historical in a sense that they've been struggling for a long time,'' said Jeremy Stone, with Coastal Communities Consulting, a nonprofit that provides economic development services to disadvantaged entrepreneurs along the Louisiana coast. ''These guys are on the margins of solvency all the time anyway, and they don't have a lot of resources to collateralize debts.''
And they lack simple information about how to apply for aid, get small-business loans or meet filing deadlines, so many continue to struggle.
''We're looking at a long road,'' said Byron Encalade, president of the Louisiana Oystermen's Association, which represents African-American and other nonwhite oystermen. ''It's not going to get any better. It's getting worse.''
Mr. Encalade said BP had not been hiring local black fishermen in large numbers to help with the cleanup, pointing to dozens of moored boats at the marina, which is owned by a white Plaquemines Parish city councilman but is almost completely occupied by black fishermen and oystermen, as some degree of proof of the untapped work force here.
''A lot of them will leave,'' Mr. Encalade said of the black bayou-men and women. ''Some never came back after Katrina; all of this is just eroding our traditions.''
Steve Rinehart, a BP spokesman, said the company was unaware of any groups being left out of the cleanup efforts and had tried to be as inclusive as possible. ''The selection is by vessel, not by person,'' he said. Criteria include a safety check of charter vessels and crew training.
Mr. Rinehart said recent changes to BP's vessels-of-opportunity program would allow rotation of the 3,000 vessels he said were registered.
While officials have reopened oyster season, which will surely mean a boost to the morale and pocket book of these oystermen, Mr. Encalade warned against high hopes of a hefty harvest.
He said the fresh water that had been diverted from the Mississippi River into the bays and bayous to keep out the oil had killed off much of the oysters, which need the right balance of salt and fresh water to survive. And officials had reclaimed many of their leases, he said.
Before the spill, Mr. Encalade said, he had 1,500 acres of oyster bed. Now he is down to about 300, with most of his oysters dead, picked clean from their shells by crabs and scavenger fish.
Others sang a similar tune.
Roger Moliere Sr., 71, sat perched behind the wheel of his truck, watching his son and a deckhand unload the skiff he built with his own hands when Junior was just a boy.
''When you're poor and black and this is all you know, what else are you going to do?'' Mr. Moliere said, grimacing. ''Was a time if a man lost his job he could always come down to the bayou and feed his family. But this here, what you got happening now, this here might finish us off.''
Mr. Moliere, now retired after 52 years as an oysterman, handed down his boat to his son, Roger Jr. He said he had raised his family on what he could gather from the bayou, after dropping out of school in the fifth grade to help after his father left.
Inside the marina's office, Elton Encalade, of the second Encalade clan in town, stood by a window and looked out on the semicircle of men on milk crates.
''Take a look out there,'' he said, motioning outside. ''See what they're doing? Sitting, talking, nobody working. We've been out on that water all of our lives, but look what we're doing now.''
He shook his head and took a long, deep gulp of the beer in his hand. ''We just have to tough it out,'' he said. ''I know I'm going to make it. I know it like I know them waters out there. I'm going to make it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A retired oysterman, Roger Moliere Sr., on the deck of a boat he gave to his son Roger, in the rear, in the Pointe a la Hache Marina.
 Hispanic workers unloaded oysters at Pointe a la Hache. Mexicans man some oysterboats whose owners are typically white. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDY LEVIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Fishermen wait for work in towns like Pointe a la Hache. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHELLFISH FISHING (90%); MARINAS (89%); MEN (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); RIVERS (78%); OIL SPILLS (77%); HURRICANE KATRINA (74%); HURRICANES (74%); COASTAL AREAS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



697 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: DuPont Profit Nearly Triples

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The DuPont Company, the chemical maker, said Tuesday that its net income nearly tripled in the second quarter as revenue surged in most of its businesses and it raised prices. 
The company also raised its earnings forecast for the year, saying it expected to continue to benefit from higher prices, growing sales and better efficiency.
DuPont, which makes Teflon and Kevlar, said its net income rose to $1.16 billion, or $1.26 a share, from $417 million, or 46 cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding a gain related to a tax settlement, DuPont earned $1.17 a share, topping the 93 cents expected by analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters.
Revenue rose 26 percent, to $8.62 billion from $6.86 billion, beating analysts' estimates of $8.27 billion. Most of the increase was a result of higher volume, but higher prices were responsible for about 5 percent of the increase, DuPont said.
The company said the economy was recovering, and several of its businesses were doing better than before the recession.
Revenue was higher in all of DuPont's regions, led by the Asia-Pacific, where revenue rose 47 percent to $1.8 billion. Emerging markets revenue also soared, improving 32 percent. Revenue in the United States, which makes up the biggest part of its business, rose 18 percent to $3.6 billion, while revenue in Europe, the Middle East and Africa rose 24 percent to $2.1 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RECESSION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%)

COMPANY: E I DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO (94%)

TICKER: DUPP (PAR) (94%); DD (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (94%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (94%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



698 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'PLAIN JANE'; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Ugly Duckling Grows New Feathers and Learns to Strut Them

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
During the early to mid years of the last decade, makeover shows seemed to provide the perfect complement to our pipe-dream economic models. While people were living in mock Tudors they couldn't afford, reality series like ''Extreme Makeover'' and ''The Swan'' told us that any woman could look like Angelina Jolie. Rhinoplasty, collagen, eyelid lifts, dermabrasion and a radical recalibration of muscle-to-fat ratios best achieved by a strategy of liposuction and 23-hour-a-day personal training were all it took. The anachronistic charms of ''Plain Jane'' come at us from a whole new world. 
The series (beginning on Wednesday on CW) maintains the ''Sex and the Single Girl'' belief that all a makeover really means is a shorter dress, more voluminous hair and a generously applied prescription of spunkiness. ''Plain Jane'' puts enormous faith in the transformative powers of that third ingredient, thus marking the show as a proponent of change-from-the-inside-but-only-with-a-department-store-credit-card. ''Plain Jane'' borrows from the annals of generic self-help as freely as it borrows from ''What Not to Wear,'' though it rejects that series's snarky criticisms of the inexplicably dressed. What we get instead is a gentle admonition against flannel shirts, flat shoes and female burping.
While it may stand as a rebuke to the American Society of Plastic Surgeons, ''Plain Jane'' provides its own Dr. Feelgood in the form of a gratingly upbeat British fashion writer named Louise Roe Ms. Roe sees herself not as a reality-television host but as a professional friend turning androgynously dressed wallflowers into hot women with the confidence to pick up guys at dog runs. What qualifies her for the role? ''I've written about relationship advice and flirting and guys, as well as the fashion side,'' Ms. Roe explains. ''I invented stalking boys.''
Her first patient is a shy, hunched-over woman in her early 20s named Cristen, who confides that she has been on only one real date in her entire life. Because this genre calls for stunned reaction shots to come at us like tennis balls from an automated server, Ms. Roe responds to this news as if she had been told that Osama bin Laden was hiding out as a candy striper at Mass General.
Cristen has been crazy about her best friend for six years, and Ms. Roe is convinced that she can secure a love connection, as long as Cristen is willing to give up the granny dresses and crippling self-effacement. The plan of attack involves platform shoes and ''jeggings'': the fashion dictionary term for jeans that look like leggings. And it also requires that Cristen mount an all-points battle against her anxieties, which extend to a paralyzing fear of snails.
''Plain Jane'' is more than shopping spree and vocabulary builder; it betrays a cockamamie respect for the therapeutic process, and it shouldn't be giving too much away to tell you that the snails lose, that the plain Janes blossom, and that no stimulus money has been wasted along the way.
PLAIN JANE
CW, Wednesday nights at 9, Eastern and Pacific times; 8, Central time.
Allison Grodner, Rich Meehan, Amy Palmer and Pete Tartaglia, executive producers; Louise Roe, host. Produced by Fly on the Wall Entertainment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: On ''Plain Jane,'' Cristen gets a makeover inside and out. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT KENNEDY/CW) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); NONSURGICAL COSMETIC PROCEDURES (76%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (65%); WRITERS (63%)

PERSON: ANGELINA JOLIE (56%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%)

TITLE: Plain Jane (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



699 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: In Study, 2 Economists Say Intervention Helped Avert a 2nd Depression

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Like a mantra, officials from both the Bush and Obama administrations have trumpeted how the government's sweeping interventions to prop up the economy since 2008 helped avert a second Depression.
Now, two leading economists wielding complex quantitative models say that assertion can be empirically proved.
In a new paper, the economists argue that without the Wall Street bailout, the bank stress tests, the emergency lending and asset purchases by the Federal Reserve, and the Obama administration's fiscal stimulus program, the nation's gross domestic product would be about 6.5 percent lower this year. 
In addition, there would be about 8.5 million fewer jobs, on top of the more than 8 million already lost; and the economy would be experiencing deflation, instead of low inflation.
The paper, by Alan S. Blinder, a Princeton professor and former vice chairman of the Fed, and Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics, represents a first stab at comprehensively estimating the effects of the economic policy responses of the last few years.
''While the effectiveness of any individual element certainly can be debated, there is little doubt that in total, the policy response was highly effective,'' they write.
Mr. Blinder and Mr. Zandi emphasize the sheer size of the fallout from the financial crisis. They estimate the total direct cost of the recession at $1.6 trillion, and the total budgetary cost, after adding in nearly $750 billion in lost revenue from the weaker economy, at $2.35 trillion, or about 16 percent of G.D.P.
By comparison, the savings and loan crisis cost about $350 billion in today's dollars: $275 billion in direct cost and an additional $75 billion from the recession of 1990-91 -- or about 6 percent of G.D.P. at the time.
But the new analysis might not be of immediate solace to officials in the Obama administration, who have been trying to promote the ''summer of recovery'' at events across the nation in the face of polls indicating persistent doubts about the impact of the $787 billion stimulus program.
For one thing, Mr. Blinder and Mr. Zandi find that the financial stabilization measures -- the Troubled Asset Relief Program, as the bailout is known, along with the bank stress tests and the Fed's actions -- have had a relatively greater impact than the stimulus program.
If the fiscal stimulus alone had been enacted, and not the financial measures, they concluded, real G.D.P. would have fallen 5 percent last year, with 12 million jobs lost. But if only the financial measures had been enacted, and not the stimulus, real G.D.P. would have fallen nearly 4 percent, with 10 million jobs lost.
The combined effects of both sets of policies cannot be directly compared with the sum of each in isolation, they found, ''because the policies tend to reinforce each other.''
Told about the findings, another leading economist was unconvinced.
''I'm very surprised that they find these big impacts,'' said John B. Taylor, a Stanford professor and a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution. ''It doesn't correspond at all to my empirical work.''
Mr. Taylor said the Fed had successfully stabilized the commercial paper and money markets, but he argued that its purchases of $1.25 trillion in mortgage-backed securities have not been effective. And he said the Obama administration's stimulus program has had ''very little impact and not much to show for it except a legacy of higher debt.''
The disagreement underscored the extent to which econometric estimates are heavily reliant on underlying assumptions and models, but Mr. Blinder and Mr. Zandi said they hoped their analysis would withstand scrutiny by other scholars.
''When all is said and done, the financial and fiscal policies will have cost taxpayers a substantial sum, but not nearly as much as most had feared and not nearly as much as if policy makers had not acted at all,'' they write.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alan Blinder, left, of Princeton and a former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, and Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody's Analytics, say there would be 8.5 million fewer jobs today if the government had not taken all the steps it did. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS RANK/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 CHRIS KEANE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); DEFLATION (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



700 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: States Are Battling Health Law While Working to Follow It

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
AUSTIN, Tex. -- There are more uninsured residents of Texas -- 6.1 million and counting -- than there are people in 33 states. The state's elected officials might be expected, therefore, to cheer a federal health care law that is likely to deliver billions of dollars from Washington to Austin and cover millions of low-income Texans.
Instead, the Republican political leadership has greeted the law and its anticipated costs with open hostility, leaving policy makers to move forward with a complex set of changes even as the governor, attorney general and ranking legislators rage against it. The same awkward dichotomy exists in many of the 21 states that are challenging the health reform act's constitutionality, but are nonetheless required to follow it while their lawsuits meander through the courts.
In Austin, legislative hearings and agency planning sessions proceed despite Gov. Rick Perry's vow to fight ''on every front available'' against a law that he characterizes as ''socialism on American soil.'' Bureaucrats apply for federal grants and collaborate with the Obama administration at the same time that Attorney General Greg Abbott strategizes to eviscerate the law in court. 
''Sometimes it seems a little schizophrenic,'' acknowledged State Representative John M. Zerwas, a Republican who favors the law's repeal but also leads a House committee that seeks to maximize its benefits to Texas. ''There are plenty of laws out there that I might not agree with. But if the law of the land says we have to do it, the last thing I want is for Texas to not be prepared or not put things in place to comply.''
The antipathy toward the law in Texas is rooted in deeply conservative politics that have been further stirred up in a gubernatorial election year. Because one in four Texans is uninsured, the highest ratio in the country, the law's advocates argue that Texas stands to gain as much as any state. But leaders in Austin are focused on the fiscal threat it poses, which they estimate could cost the state $27 billion in the 10 years beginning in 2014.
''You can say a chicken in every pot, a car in every garage and health care for all, if taken in isolation,'' said Mr. Abbott, a leader among the Republican attorneys general who are suing the federal government in Florida. ''But none of those are good things if it requires breaking the Constitution and breaking the bank to do it.''
States share in the cost of Medicaid, the government insurance program for the poor, and the new health law will vastly expand eligibility by offering coverage to childless adults
State agency leaders said politics had not interfered to date with that task, or with new requirements to create a health insurance exchange and oversee strict regulations on health insurers.
''I don't have any sense that I'm being held back in any way,'' said Billy Millwee, the state Medicaid director.
That view was echoed by Thomas M. Suehs, the commissioner of health and human services, who said the governor ''expects me to implement the federal law in the most cost-effective, efficient manner.''
Mr. Perry, who is seeking re-election to a third full term after filling George W. Bush's seat, declined to be interviewed.
Obama administration officials, while noting the incongruity, said they had been impressed that politically antagonistic states like Texas were complying with, and taking full advantage of, the new law. The Texas Department of Insurance, for instance, has applied for a planning grant to create a more muscular process for reviewing proposed premium increases, a White House priority.
''That's sort of the operational norm in Texas,'' said F. Scott McCown, executive director of the Center for Public Policy Priorities, which advocates for safety-net programs in the state. ''Your leadership may be railing against Washington, but federal supremacy still requires that the people in the trenches get the work done.''
That dynamic may be tested down the road as states decide how aggressively to market the Medicaid expansion that begins in 2014, when most Americans will be required to obtain coverage.
Texas traditionally has set among the country's most restrictive Medicaid eligibility thresholds. This has limited its Medicaid rolls, as have burdensome application requirements, outmoded computers, inadequate staffing and difficulties in signing up children born to illegal immigrants.
Mr. Perry, whose antagonism toward Washington is central to his political persona, would seem to be in tune with public opinion. Sixty percent of Texans questioned in May for a University of Texas/Texas Tribune poll said they opposed the health care law. Only 28 percent said they liked it.
The Democratic nominee for governor, Mayor Bill White of Houston, has not made an issue of Mr. Perry's approach. He said in an interview that he also opposed the health care law because of its potential impact on the federal deficit.
In late April, Mr. Perry announced that Texas would not establish the temporary high-risk insurance pool required by the law, leaving that task to the federal government. Twenty other governors made the same choice, arguing that the new law did not provide enough money for the pools, and that states would be left holding the bag.
Some Democrats find the position inconsistent. ''You can't run around saying the federal government wants to take over Texas, but then when we have an opportunity to do it ourselves leave it to the federal government,'' said State Representative Garnet F. Coleman, a Democrat.
Democrats also accuse the Perry administration of producing a sticker-shock cost estimate for the state's share of Medicaid expansion. To come up with his 10-year projection, Mr. Suehs skipped the law's first four years, when states bear little cost. He also assumed an increase in enrollment that some analysts say is inflated.
The commissioner projects that 2.3 million people will be added to the Medicaid rolls by 2023, nearly doubling the current enrollment of 3.1 million. Thanks largely to job losses during the economic downturn, enrollment has surged 12 percent in the past year.
Mr. Suehs and other state officials worry about a severe shortage of doctors who are willing to accept low Medicaid payments, which the state is about to cut by 1 percent. They also are concerned about the continuing strain on hospitals from treating an estimated 800,000 uninsured illegal immigrants, who will not be eligible for subsidized coverage under the new law.
But among the reasons the law could be expensive for Texas is the state's past failure to enroll many of those already eligible for Medicaid. Going forward, Washington will pay a much smaller share of the cost for those recipients than for those who gain coverage because of expanded eligibility.
The federal government would still pay nearly 90 percent of the state's total costs. But that is providing little comfort in a tax-averse Capitol that faces an $18 billion shortfall in its budget over the next two years.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Rick Perry is working to turn back the health care law even as Texas policy makers work to put its provisions into effect. Many of the 21 states challenging the law are in similar situations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LM OTERO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); POLITICS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); LITIGATION (75%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (67%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (73%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (95%) TEXAS, USA (99%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



701 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; RESTAURANT REVIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: The Lion Opens His Den

BYLINE: By SAM SIFTON

 BODY:
THE Lion's tale begins in 2006, with Graydon Carter. That year, Mr. Carter, the satirical-magazine outsider who had ascended Manhattan society to become editor of Vanity Fair, opened the Waverly Inn, a nostalgic West Village restaurant with no published telephone number and a dining room filled only with the people he wanted in it: the city's media and celebrity elite.
People were mostly friendly there. A fellow could introduce himself to a recognizable stranger -- ''Why, hello, Sir Howard!'' -- and no one minded. It was so difficult to get in that if you actually had a table, you were clearly in the club and welcome, at least if you didn't pull out a camera or a notebook. (These were banned.)
The food at the Waverly was basic and better than it needed to be. The chef, John DeLucie, served a toothsome chicken potpie, a fine hamburger. He did great work with beets. 
The restaurant was a hit, Mr. DeLucie became a star. Manhattan and celebrity being what they are, he now has his own restaurant, the Lion, a Waverly cub.
Like its predecessor, the Lion is a renovation. (The space on Ninth Street has been many things over the years, including a grand old gay bar where Barbra Streisand got her start and, most recently, the restaurant Village.) Like the Waverly, it serves mostly comforting, occasionally very good American country-club fare. The burger underwent an upgrade. The potpie took on sweet lobster meat to replace the chicken.
But the Lion also seems to have swapped the warm exclusivity of the Waverly for a kind of populism that is more inclusive, but also far louder and less pleasant.
Investors in the Lion include, among others, Dan Abrams, the chief legal analyst for NBC News; and David Zinczenko, the editor of Men's Health. (Mr. Carter stayed home.) The owners may have hoped to ape the Waverly's booking practices and serve customers whose names sometimes show up on the manifests of private planes. Les Moonves has made the scene there. But many JetBlue customers have come as well.
There is a bouncer in front every night, standing on the stairs that lead down into the restaurant's cool, dark entranceway. The bar is crowded beyond belief with Delta Taus and other frat packers, men in distressed jeans aspiring to six-pack abs, women skating on the thin ice of fashion and yapping into mobile phones.
Beyond them, down a hallway that leads past a busy open kitchen, is a dining room that soars up to a stained skylight evoking both Paris and the musical ''Rent.'' There are packed green banquettes, heavy tables and chairs, a stairway up to a private mezzanine and table. Art is on every wall, all of it hung salon-style and badly, with overlapping frames, a double-height gallery of prints: Basquiat; LaChapelle; a lot of work pulled from the photography archive of The Daily News.
The bedlam of images is meant to evoke a modern history of New York. (Calvin Klein did a better job all by himself one night, staring out from his table of supplicants in back as if alone, or lost.) Beneath the frames sits the city's present: a shouty crowd with corkscrew necks looking to see who will be next into the dining room, who next on the stairs.
If that's your glass of pinot, you can eat and drink well enough, all the way through to an excellent dessert of cheesecake in a jar, beneath a buzz of graham cracker. The Lion's staff is well trained and patient, versed in the menu, accustomed to the eccentricities of Manhattan wealth and privilege. The sommelier is on her game. It can be a jolly space, and enjoyable.
A yellowfin tartare with pickled vegetables and ginger-fiery lime vinaigrette is a pleasant way to begin a summer evening in the heat, and that lobster potpie -- which you'd think too rich and creamy for July consumption -- is its natural successor, surprisingly light and deeply flavorful.
Asparagus may be long gone from your farmers' market, but it is still growing somewhere: the Lion's is served sweet, tangy and luscious, with trumpet mushrooms, a slow-cooked egg and a hollandaise of great delicacy. (In contrast, avoid the heavy bechamel with the restaurant's already leaden artichoke fritters.) And Mr. DeLucie's handle on the preparation of beets remains firm, in a pretty salad that combines them with their greens and an airy goat-cheese mousse.
There are some pastas as well, the best of which comes with braised octopus, guanciale and a sauce of San Marzano tomatoes. (The loser is the sheep's milk cavatelli, gummy and overdone.)
For entrees, Mr. DeLucie offers a high-end, low-end menu similar to the one he used at Waverly: steaks and fancy fish on the one end; burgers and excellent fries at the other.
The lobster aside, he generally does better in the meat department than in fish. Dover sole, while cooked to a buttery golden hue, is dry and mushy, far less interesting than the luscious hamburger he pairs with pork belly, provolone, smoked cheddar and caramelized onions. A rare Delmonico steak with bearnaise sauce and fries is superior to dry buttered scallops with crushed peas and a wax-bean salad. (Whatever you get, add fries.)
Only a Berkshire pork chop with fermented black garlic and what the menu calls ''applewood smoke'' really disappoints. It arrives at the table on a wooden cutting board, beneath a glass dome filled with acrid smoke. The flavor it imparts seems to be that which might have been achieved if someone had simply stubbed out a glowing Marlboro on the meat.
Such a misstep rankles, and more than it might if the restaurant did not lack what Thackeray, in the actual ''Vanity Fair,'' called ''the elegances of fine society and the confidence and affection of a home.''
This was the true genius of the Waverly Inn, after all, what allowed it to serve truffled macaroni and cheese for $55 and have the world laugh.
The Lion is a different animal. You can get a table there whenever you like, if only you call far enough ahead. And then that pork chop arrives. Who wants club food if anyone can have it?
The Lion
Rating: 1 star
62 West Ninth Street (Sixth Avenue), Greenwich Village; (212) 353-8400, thelionnyc.com
ATMOSPHERE Exclusivity for the masses.
SOUND LEVEL Very loud in the bar area up front, diminishing to merely loud in the dining room.
RECOMMENDED DISHES Tuna tartare, asparagus, beet salad, pasta annunziata, lobster potpie, burger, steak, cheesecake.
WINE LIST Ask the sommelier to keep it in the $40 to $60 range and you'll do well off this moderately sized list of classics. There's galloping inflation north of there.
PRICE RANGE Appetizers and salads, $12 to $15; entrees, $17 to $45.
HOURS Sunday to Thursday, 5:30 p.m. to midnight; Friday and Saturday to 1 a.m.
RESERVATIONS Recommended, at least two weeks ahead.
CREDIT CARDS All major cards.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS The restaurant is down a flight of stairs and fearsomely crowded. The restrooms are not accessible.
WHAT THE STARS MEAN Ratings range from zero to four stars and reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: INCLUSIVE: Old New York lines the walls
 New New York dines at the tables. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM WHITE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); MEN (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); AIRLINES (69%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (65%); MEN'S HEALTH MAGAZINE (53%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (52%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (65%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

PERSON: LESLIE MOONVES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



702 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: In the N.B.A., The New Boss Isn't the Same As the Old Boss

BYLINE: By JONATHAN ABRAMS

 BODY:
A growing number of executives running N.B.A. franchises incorporate knowledge about what happens on the basketball court and in the courtroom, while others bring advanced college degrees to their work. Together, they have created what the Portland Trail Blazers' owner, Paul Allen, termed ''the new generation of N.B.A. executives.''
Allen hired Rich Cho as his general manager earlier this month. A day later, the Phoenix Suns introduced Lon Babby, a prominent agent, as their president of basketball operations. Both Cho and Babby pursued law degrees before delving into basketball full time. Cho started as an intern with the Seattle SuperSonics 15 years ago. 
Neither Cho, 44, nor Babby, 59, claims to have all the answers for success in the league. But their legal backgrounds could serve them well in those moments when the basketball court and the courtroom intersect, particularly in arbitration cases. They should certainly come in handy when the league's collective bargaining agreement, which expires after next season, is renegotiated, requiring a new encyclopedia of details, many of them highly nuanced.
With some N.B.A. teams staggering economically, there is a heightened emphasis on an executive's ability to allocate resources properly.
''You use that background and knowledge to help you make trades, in contract negotiations,'' Cho said. ''That's one thing where it helps me and Lon.''
Cho and Babby have benefited from a recent tendency among team owners to seek candidates with multifaceted backgrounds when hiring executives. Before the Houston Rockets promoted Daryl Morey, an M.I.T. graduate and an expert in statistical analysis, to general manager in 2007, teams usually turned to former scouts, players or coaches to run their basketball operations.
Shortly after Morey's promotion, the Sonics hired the highly respected Sam Presti away from the San Antonio Spurs and made him their general manager. Cho worked as an assistant general manager under Presti, who was a Rhodes scholar nominee at Emerson College, when the Sonics moved to Oklahoma City and became the Thunder. The two quickly earned a reputation for shrewd trades to acquire high draft picks.
In a similarly innovative organizational move, the Minnesota Timberwolves last year hired David Kahn, a former sportswriter and lawyer, as their president of basketball operations. And this summer the Cleveland Cavaliers promoted Chris Grant, who holds a master's degree in educational leadership, to general manager.
Still, even as some teams seem to lean toward executives with nontraditional skills, others have benefited from executives with strong N.B.A. backgrounds. The teams in last season's N.B.A. finals were each led by former players: Mitch Kupchak of the Los Angeles Lakers and Danny Ainge of the Boston Celtics. The Miami Heat president, Pat Riley, a former player and coach, pulled off the free-agency coup of the summer by landing LeBron James and Chris Bosh while retaining Dwyane Wade.
The Nets with Billy King and the Charlotte Hornets with Dell Demps turned to men with traditional backgrounds this summer to fill top positions in their front offices.
But the tide may be turning. Babby, a graduate of Yale Law School, first joined the sports hemisphere by representing the N.F.L.'s Washington Redskins and baseball's Baltimore Orioles.
Later, as a player representative, he carved out a client list that included basketball ambassadors like Grant Hill, Tim Duncan and Ray Allen.
Last summer Babby negotiated Hill's deal with Phoenix. This summer he found himself in a conversation with Robert Sarver, the Suns' owner, that touched on several topics.
''At one point, I said this is starting to sound like a job interview,'' Babby said. ''We talked about how to run an organization, and it evolved into a great opportunity for me, but it wasn't something that I set out to get.''
Babby quickly called Hill, his first client as an agent, and alerted him to the potential of a deal.
''The last week or two he's been calling me 'boss,' so he's been very enthusiastic about it,'' said Babby, who plans on hiring a general manager to oversee player personnel.
This summer the Suns traded for Hedo Turkoglu, another of Babby's former clients. His trade coincided with the discussions between Babby and Sarver.
''I had recused myself long before the trade occurred,'' Babby said.
Cho, who once worked as an engineer for Boeing, graduated from Pepperdine's law school. After immigrating to the United States from Burma with his family as a child, Cho developed a strong interest in sports. He recognized sooner than most that a law degree would be a useful tool for a sports executive. He served his internship with the Sonics while attending law school and soon after his graduation in 1997 was named Seattle's director of basketball affairs.
''He had a law degree and a diverse background, but he also has a pretty rich basketball background,'' Larry Miller, Portland's team president, said of Cho. ''That was one of the things that was really appealing. He's got some pretty vast experience when it comes to working for a basketball organization. I've heard him referred to as the Swiss army knife of basketball.''
Cho said, he will use an ''eyes, ears, mind'' approach.
''The eyes are the in-person live scouting and film scouting, the ears are all the background work you do on a guy and trying to get intel about his work ethic and what's he like as a person, and a numbers approach is the analytical portion,'' Cho said.
Cho says he will process the information before delivering a verdict. As the game evolves, he and Babby are now among the next generation of executives whose job it is to guide their franchises in the best direction.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rich Cho, the general manager of the Portland Trail Blazers, is among a new class of N.B.A executives who did not come from the traditional pool of candidates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DON RYAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (93%); SPORTS BUSINESS (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (74%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERS (84%); PHOENIX SUNS (57%); SEATTLE SUPERSONICS (57%)

PERSON: PAUL ALLEN (72%); LEBRON JAMES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (92%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (52%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (52%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (67%); MINNESOTA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



703 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: BP Details $30 Billion Plan to Pay for Spill

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD and CLIFFORD KRAUSS; Julia Werdigier and Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BP said on Tuesday that it had set aside $32.2 billion to pay for the biggest offshore oil spill in United States history.
But the company acknowledged that its costs might be much higher -- especially if it was found grossly negligent, criminally liable or was faced with a huge jury award for punitive damages in connection with the April 20 Deepwater Horizon disaster, which killed 11 people and sent millions of barrels of oil gushing into the Gulf of Mexico.
The financial hit will be reduced by a $10 billion tax credit the company is entitled to receive for its spill costs. 
To improve its future flexibility, BP outlined a program to triple its planned asset sales to raise as much as $30 billion and halve its debt. BP also confirmed that Robert Dudley, the American in charge of its spill response in the gulf, would replace Tony Hayward as chief executive on Oct. 1.
Although the new BP will be a leaner company that produces about 12 percent less oil than it does today, the moves do not amount to a radical transformation of the company, which has suffered a series of accidents in the last five years. Instead, they show how BP hopes to ensure it will survive this latest crisis and continue to compete on an equal footing with the world's top producers.
The change in leadership did not alter the tone at the top of the company. On Tuesday, Mr. Dudley, just like Mr. Hayward, insisted that BP had not been negligent in its offshore operations.
''It's a very complicated industrial accident,'' Mr. Dudley said during a telephone interview with reporters. It resulted from ''a series of individual misjudgments by very experienced people and a multiple series of failures of equipment and processes of using equipment that is going to involve multiple companies here.''
Mr. Hayward made much the same argument, hitting back at other oil companies that had distanced themselves from BP by criticizing its choice of a cheaper and riskier well design. ''I genuinely believe that there are some issues the industry needs to reflect on, such as the extent it pushed technology and procedures,'' he said.
The new strategy reverses years of rapid growth at BP, which transformed itself in recent years from a midsize European company into a worldwide rival of Exxon Mobil and Royal Dutch Shell. BP said the planned asset sales would be focused mainly on its upstream business, which includes oil and gas production platforms, and leave it with a smaller portfolio of higher-quality exploration and production assets.
BP has already agreed to sell gas fields in Canada, Egypt and Texas to the Apache Corporation for $7 billion, and is negotiating the sale of its operations in Vietnam and Pakistan, Mr. Hayward said. The company is also exploring the sale of its interests in its Alaskan oilfields and Pan American Energy in Argentina, according to people with knowledge of the discussions.
Using proceeds from the asset sales and its strong cash flow, BP plans to reduce its debt, now about $23 billion, to $10 billion to $15 billion within 18 months.
The big wild card, however, is the company's ultimate financial liability for the oil spill.
BP's $32.2 billion provision for spill costs, which includes a $20 billion fund for damages that was established under pressure from the White House, provides a window into the company's view of the spill's impact.
BP's damaged well spewed 35,000 to 60,000 barrels of oil a day until it was capped on July 15, according to government estimates. To help calculate its liability, BP said it took a midrange point from that government estimate, and assumed a fine of $1,100 for each barrel spilled, which is the standard civil penalty under the Clean Water Act.
But analysts said the final penalty was likely to be much higher. If the company were found guilty of gross negligence under the Clean Water Act, its penalty would be $4,300 a barrel. In that case, Credit Suisse analysts estimated that BP's fines would increase by $12.6 billion.
BP could also face various other criminal charges and penalties. ''As the various investigations on the causes of the accident progress, we see risks that BP may take further provisions in following quarters,'' Kim Fustier, an analyst at Credit Suisse, wrote in a research report.
BP admitted there remained considerable uncertainty surrounding the final costs. The company noted that ''it is not possible to measure reliably any obligation in relation to future claims, including natural resource damage.''
BP's provision for spill costs led to a record loss of $17 billion for the second quarter, in contrast to a $4.4 billion profit in the quarter a year ago.
Some analysts said they were not surprised that BP executives were being cautious in their public statements. ''If BP admits openly that they are 100 percent responsible for what happened, that opens up the door to unlimited liability,'' said Kenneth B. Medlock, an energy economist at Rice University. ''You are not going to hear them say, 'We were negligent.' ''
BP also said it expected to recover money from its partners on the well -- Anadarko Petroleum and Mitsui Offshore Exploration, which together hold 35 percent of the well. BP has billed them $1.4 billion so far, but the partners are withholding payments until the investigations are completed.
Mr. Dudley said the company would focus on improving its operations. ''We will look at what we have learned from this incident,'' he said. ''We will look at our culture and our safety and operations.''
Mr. Hayward, who angered American policy makers and gulf residents with his handling of the spill, said his departure would allow BP to repair its reputation. ''For it to move on, particularly in the U.S., it needs a new leadership,'' he said.
When he leaves, Mr. Hayward, 53, will get one year of salary as severance, or about $1.6 million. He will also get an annual pension of about $932,000, from a fund worth about $17 million, which he amassed over his 28 years at the company. BP said it planned to nominate Mr. Hayward as a director of TNK-BP, its Russian joint venture.
Asked how he felt about the oil spill, Mr. Hayward said that the company had worked hard to improve its safety standards in the last three years. But, he added, ''sometimes you step off the pavement and get hit by a bus.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert Dudley, right, will replace Tony Hayward, left, as chief of BP on Oct. 1. They were with Carl-Henric Svanberg, BP's chairman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUPERT HARTLEY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1)
 The cleanup continued on Tuesday in the Gulf of Mexico. BP is selling assets to pay for the spill, but the final bill is a wild card. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS GRAYTHEN/GETTY IMAGES) (B6) CHARTS: Estimating BP's Liability: Though the well in the Gulf of Mexico that was leaking oil has been capped, the cost to BP will not be known for some time as it depends on the final estimates of the spill's magnitude and the extent of the economic damage. (Source: Clear View Energy Partners) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); DIVESTITURES (89%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (79%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (78%); DAMAGES (78%); NEGLIGENCE (77%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); VERDICTS (72%); JURY TRIALS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (66%)

COMPANY: APACHE CORP (84%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (62%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (51%)

TICKER: APA (NYSE) (84%); RDSA (LSE) (62%); RDSA (AMS) (62%); RDS.B (NYSE) (62%); RDS.A (NYSE) (62%); XOM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (84%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (62%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%)

PERSON: TONY HAYWARD (89%); ROBERT DUDLEY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); ALASKA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) EGYPT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); CANADA (79%); VIET NAM (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



704 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Eyes on the Spill And the Investors

BYLINE: By FIONA MAHARG-BRAVO and MARTIN HUTCHINSON

 BODY:
BP is sounding decisive and radical. The beleaguered British oil major is expanding its existing asset disposal program to $30 billion and looking to cut debt after announcing a $32 billion charge on its Gulf of Mexico oil spill in Tuesday's earnings report. And Tony Hayward is to step down as chief executive. But for Mr. Hayward's American successor, Robert Dudley, one big challenge is to turn this into a convincing story for the company's stock.
The big second-quarter charge is BP's best guess at its spill liabilities. It is well below some worst-case estimates of $50 billion or more. And BP is assuming the costs can be written off against tax, leaving a net cost of $22 billion. 
In the end, BP may find it politically difficult to make all the costs tax deductible. It is also banking on not being found grossly negligent. If it were, Clean Water Act fines would be significantly higher. The company's assumption for the amount of oil spilled, which determines fines, is also below the top end of the federal estimates.
On the other hand, the final cost could be lower if BP's partners in the stricken gulf well assume their 35 percent share of the liability.
BP is, in any event, retaining financial flexibility. The company is still a formidable money machine. It generated nearly $9 billion of operating cash flow in the second quarter. The decision to sell assets to cover the bulk of the spill costs should cut net debt from $23 billion to as low as $10 billion over the next 18 months.
It won't be easy for BP to get good prices for all the assets it wants to sell. But last week's $7 billion deal with Apache shows the company has holdings that are worth more to others. If Mr. Dudley can keep that going with other disposals, the new, smaller BP will have a more concentrated portfolio of quality assets.
That provides the makings of an attractive story for equity investors -- especially if a stronger balance sheet is part of the equation. But a recovering BP could also be an attractive acquisition target for a stronger rival. The plan Mr. Dudley must execute is risky and offers no quick fix. He faces a nervous honeymoon.
Testing the Tests
Don't be fooled into believing the housing market in the United States is rebounding. True, May's Case-Shiller 20-city house price index bounced 4.6 percent year-on-year. But that was driven largely by the federal home buyer tax credit, an artificial one-time stimulus. With jobs scarce and confidence falling, a further drop now looks likely. That will test the limits of last year's bank stress tests.
The $8,000 tax credit was valid for contracts entered into before April 30. So house prices in the three months to May benefited from an unnatural support. Both new and existing home sales have declined since the end of April, suggesting a sag in home prices to come.
Meanwhile, the Case-Shiller index still stands some 47 percent above where it was in January 2000, against a consumer price index rise of 29 percent over the same period. While the United States has enjoyed economic and population growth since 2000, the housing market was already buoyant at the turn of the century. A 12 percent drop from here would bring home prices in line with the decade's consumer price inflation.
That would further erode confidence and dent consumer balance sheets. It would also ding bank earnings and capital. Last year's Federal Reserve-led bank stress tests involved a ''base case'' that included a housing price decline of 17.4 percent from December 2008 levels by 2010, and a second ''adverse'' case based on a 27.5 percent decline.
The good news is that house prices are currently only 2.1 percent below their levels in December 2008. So even a 15 percent further decline would take them only to the base case level used in the stress tests. But an uptick in joblessness combined with further house price declines would get closer to the adverse case.
If regulators' calculations on bank capital were right, even that wouldn't presage another banking crisis because the Fed forced larger banks to raise sufficient capital to handle the adverse case. But it would hurt earnings and probably cause banks to become even more cautious about lending. That could make any double dip doubly bad.
FIONA MAHARG-BRAVO and MARTIN HUTCHINSON
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A federal tax credit made the housing market look healthy, at least for a while. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); DIVESTITURES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); TAX LAW (88%); TAX RELIEF (88%); HOME PRICES (86%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (78%); CASH FLOW (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (69%); NEGLIGENCE (68%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (67%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (63%); EXECUTIVES (57%); WATER QUALITY (53%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (53%)

PERSON: ROBERT DUDLEY (79%); TONY HAYWARD (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



705 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: A Shift Toward Fighting Fat

BYLINE: By DUFF WILSON

 BODY:
When the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation decided in 1991 to take on Joe Camel, it became the nation's largest private funding source for fighting smoking. The foundation spent $700 million to help knock the cartoon character out of advertisements, finance research and advocacy for higher cigarette taxes and smoke-free air laws and, ultimately, to aid in reducing the nation's smoking rate almost by half.
But a few years ago, the Johnson foundation, based in Princeton, N.J., added another target to its mission, pledging to spend $500 million in five years to battle childhood obesity. As the antiobesity financing rose to $58 million last year, a new compilation from the foundation shows, the organization's antismoking grants fell to $4 million. 
The steep drop-off in private funds illustrates the competition under way for money as public health priorities shift. In the race for preventive health care dollars, from charities and from federal and state government sources, the tobacco warriors have become a big loser. And the nation's battle to shed pounds has in its corner the White House, with Michelle Obama leading a new campaign against childhood obesity. Shortly after the first lady kicked off the ''Let's Move'' program, the administration awarded more funds to fight obesity than tobacco through two big new money sources for preventive health. The funds, totaling $1.15 billion, came from economic stimulus and health care reform legislation. They still provided more than $200 million for tobacco-use prevention, but much more to grapple with obesity.
The changes in financing are also evident across the country. State governments have used tobacco's billions to balance their budgets while cutting $150 million from antitobacco programs over the last two years. On the airways, obesity public service announcements are lining up while a ''Truth'' campaign about tobacco languishes for lack of money.
''Don't forget tobacco,'' pleaded a commentary this month in The New England Journal of Medicine.
One in five Americans still smokes.
But one in three is obese.
And competition for attention is growing between the two biggest issues in public health.
''I don't see anybody else rushing into the vacuum,'' says Dr. Steven A. Schroeder, former president of the Johnson foundation. ''The sad thing is, smoking, despite all the harm it does, is left pretty much an orphan.''
Dr. James S. Marks, senior vice president of the foundation, said it had to pick its targets. ''When we made the commitment to spend $500 million in obesity, we made the commitment to see if we couldn't do for childhood obesity what we did in tobacco,'' he said.
The decline in state funding to prevent smoking has distressed advocates. The 1998 Tobacco Master Settlement Agreement between 46 states and cigarette companies provided more than $200 billion through 2025. For a while it financed preventive programs like the ''Truth'' media campaign from the antismoking group American Legacy Foundation. But as states used money elsewhere, ''Truth'' spending declined, to a low of $35 million last year from $104 million in 2000.
''The industry outspends us in a day what we spend in a year,'' said David Dobbins, chief operating officer of Legacy.
And even as states were raising taxes on cigarettes to record levels -- a proven way to deter smoking -- they were shifting that revenue to general funds. Both tobacco industry analysts and antismoking groups say that states have become addicted to tobacco money but are using less of it for prevention efforts.
''Overall funding on tobacco control is down because of dramatic cuts in state spending in recent years,'' Matthew L. Myers, president of the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, said in an interview. ''In the last several years we've seen the rapid progress in both adult and youth smoking rates slow to a crawl largely because of a decline in overall spending at the state level on tobacco prevention and cessation.''
State funding for antitobacco programs dropped to $567 million last year, from $717 million two years earlier, a 21 percent cut, according to an advocacy groups' report titled ''A Broken Promise to Our Children.''
While the federal government has made up for some of the state decline in antitobacco funding, it is spending even more on antiobesity efforts. And despite politic statements, there is undeniable competition for public health money.
''In our reaction to the obesity epidemic, sometimes we have taken our eye off other issues,'' Terry F. Pechacek, of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention office on smoking and health, said in a recent interview.
But Dr. Howard K. Koh, assistant secretary for health, focused on what he said was unprecedented funding from the federal government for both issues.
''Rather than pitting one disease against another, we want to uphold comprehensive prevention policies,'' he said in a phone interview. Dr. Koh said the administration was directing $722 million to tobacco control and research this year and $821 million to obesity control and research.
The tobacco funding includes industry fees to set up a new regulatory office in the Food and Drug Administration. About half of the tobacco funding and most of the obesity funding is in research financed by the National Institutes of Health, illustrating the relative newness of obesity research.
In addition, the 2009 economic stimulus package included $650 million for ''prevention and wellness strategies.'' In February, state smoking quit lines received more than $44 million. In March, obesity programs received 62 percent of a $372 million award while tobacco programs received 38 percent.
Kathleen Sebelius, secretary of health and human services, made the awards in March a month after joining with Mrs. Obama to help kick off the first lady's campaign against childhood obesity.
Stanton A. Glantz, director of the Center for Tobacco Control Research and Education at the University of California, San Francisco, asked, ''Given that tobacco kills four times as many people as obesity does, why is the government putting more money into obesity?''
Kenneth E. Thorpe, a professor of health policy and obesity researcher at Emory University in Atlanta, defended the shifting resources, noting that obesity rates had doubled since 1985. And health problems related to being overweight now account for about 30 percent of the increase in health care spending, he said.
''The smoking rate, fortunately, has been coming down. Not far enough, but that's moving in the right direction. Obesity is moving in the wrong direction,'' he said.
Congress also created a $15 billion, 10-year Prevention and Public Health Investment Fund as a part of health care reform.
The first $250 million went in June to increase the number of primary care doctors, nurses and other health care workers -- more to battle sickness than promote wellness, critics said. Jeff Levi, executive director of the Trust for America's Health, a nonprofit advocacy group, said he was disappointed that the money was ''diverted.''
Dr. Koh, the assistant secretary, an oncologist and formerly a Harvard professor and Massachusetts state health chief, said, ''It was a one-time investment and we need those providers to deliver preventive services.''
Out of the second $250 million, $16 million went in June to obesity prevention and $16 million to tobacco cessation. Parts of other funds could be used for those purposes. But the nation's leading antismoking groups had written Ms. Sebelius in April asking for about 30 percent of the total, which would have been $150 million.
Next year the prevention fund from health care reform rises to $750 million and to $1 billion after that, so the dueling organizations fighting smoking or obesity will be competing for a much larger pot of money.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michelle Obama leading a ''Let's Move'' event, meant to combat childhood obesity, on the South Lawn of the White House. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINI UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); OBESITY (90%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); CHARITIES (78%); SMOKING BANS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (76%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (73%); TOBACCO MFG (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (68%); EXECUTIVES (60%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (50%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



706 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: Foreclosure Program

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Inspector Reports That a Program to Help Prevent Foreclosures Has Fallen Short'' (news article, July 22) not only highlighted the shortcomings of federal efforts to address the foreclosure crisis, but also the urgent need for banks to do more to help families stay in their homes. 
The current loan modification process is plagued by bureaucratic runarounds. Homeowners are frustrated by the unanswered phone calls, lost paperwork and seemingly endless red tape. The status quo approach is clearly not working.
I have partnered with a coalition of labor and clergy leaders to call on five major banks to reform their loan modification process. Our goal is to engage in a substantive dialogue that will identify best practices, and carry out bank policies that are more responsive and effective for families facing foreclosure.
These measures would benefit homeowners, investors, financial institutions and the overall economy. It would be a win-win result for all.
John C. Liu New York City Comptroller New York, July 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (88%); BEST PRACTICES (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); RELIGION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



707 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: A Survey in Newark Details Exploitation of Day Laborers

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

 BODY:
Nearly all day laborers who gather for work in the Ironbound neighborhood of Newark have had employers who have either paid them less than promised or not paid them at all, according to a Seton Hall University report on wage theft and workplace conditions among day laborers.
In addition, despite New Jersey state laws that grant day laborers the same legal protections that apply to all workers, the vast majority of day laborers in the Ironbound say that employers have failed to provide them with safety equipment, and at least 20 percent say they have been injured on the job, said the report (pdf), which is scheduled to be released Tuesday. 
''Our findings demonstrate a staggering degree of workplace violations and exploitation of day laborers by local employers in violation of federal and state law, resulting in a loss of dignity for the day laborer population and a loss of revenue to the public,'' said the study's authors, a group of professors and students at the Immigrant Workers' Rights Clinic at the Seton Hall School of Law.
The report joins a growing body of research into the lives of day laborers, widely regarded as among the most economically vulnerable workers. Many are illegal immigrants, are frequently subjected to workplace abuses and rarely seek recourse from law enforcement officials or the courts, either because they are ignorant of their rights or they fear deportation.
Chris Newman, legal director of the National Day Laborer Organizing Network, a nonprofit advocacy group based in Los Angeles, said in an interview that a decreasing demand for laborers amid the economic downturn, coupled with ''pronounced anti-immigrant sentiment and the perception that immigrants have less rights,'' has made day laborers even more vulnerable to workplace abuses. He said the Seton Hall study was the first new day laborer report he had seen since the recession. Another local study is under way in Seattle, he said, and other reports were completed before the recession in cities like Los Angeles, Chicago, Austin, Tex., and Washington.
The Seton Hall researchers said their report was intended to help ''fill the gap'' of inadequate local data, a dearth that has contributed to a failure on the part of state and local government agencies to investigate workplace violations and enforce labor laws on behalf of day laborers.
The study, called ''Ironbound Underground: Wage Theft and Workplace violations Among Day Laborers in Newark's East End,'' was based on interviews in the spring with 26 laborers, or about half of the population of workers who regularly gather at a shape-up site in the Ironbound section, a working- and middle-class neighborhood with a large immigrant population, many of Brazilian and Portuguese nationality or descent.
The report found that 96 percent of the workers reported that they had experienced at least one case of wage theft. Some 88 percent reported that employers had failed to pay them overtime wages, as required by state and federal laws; 77 percent had been victims of underpayment of regular-hour wages; and 62 percent had employers who refused to pay them on at least one occasion.
These findings showed a higher incidence of wage violations than those revealed in the National Day Labor Study (pdf), a comprehensive 2006 survey of day laborers around the country, which found that 48 percent of day laborers in the United States reported underpayment of wages and that 49 percent said they had been completely denied payment of wages on at least one occasion.
The Seton Hall researchers also found that 27 percent of the laborers had been assaulted at least once by employers or their representatives.
Among its recommendations, the report urged the New Jersey Department of Labor to step up its prosecution of employers who cheat day laborers by designating a special agent to investigate the workers' claims, help them recover unpaid wages and coordinate with law enforcement agencies to prosecute labor law violators.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (67%); DEPORTATION (67%)

ORGANIZATION: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



708 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Lost In A Maze

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
The waterfall of leaks on Afghanistan underlines the awful truth: We're not in control.
Not since Theseus fought the Minotaur in his maze has a fight been so confounding.
The more we try to do for our foreign protectorates, the more angry they get about what we try to do. As Congress passed $59 billion in additional war funding on Tuesday, not only are our wards not grateful, they're disdainful.
Washington gave the Wall Street banks billions, and, in return, they stabbed us in the back, handing out a fortune in bonuses to the grifters who almost wrecked our economy. 
Washington gave the Pakistanis billions, and, in return, they stabbed us in the back, pledging to fight the militants even as they secretly help the militants.
We keep getting played by people who are playing both sides.
Robert Gibbs recalled that President Obama said last year that ''we will not and cannot provide a blank check'' to Pakistan.
But only last week, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton arrived in Pakistan to hand over a juicy check: $500 million in aid to the country that's been getting a billion a year for most of this decade and in 2009 was pledged another $7.5 billion for the next five. She vowed to banish the ''legacy of suspicion'' and show that ''there is so much we can accomplish together as partners joined in common cause.''
Gibbs argued that the deluge of depressing war documents from the whistle-blower Web site WikiLeaks, reported by The New York Times and others, was old. But it reflected one chilling fact: the Taliban has been getting better and better every year of the insurgency. So why will 30,000 more troops help?
We invaded two countries, and allied with a third -- all renowned as masters at double-dealing. And, now lured into their mazes, we still don't have the foggiest idea, shrouded in the fog of wars, how these cultures work. Before we went into Iraq and Afghanistan, both places were famous for warrior cultures. And, indeed, their insurgents are world class.
But whenever America tries to train security forces in Iraq and Afghanistan so that we can leave behind a somewhat stable country, it's positively Sisyphean. It takes eons longer than our officials predict. The forces we train turn against us or go over to the other side or cut and run. If we give them a maximum security prison, as we recently did in Iraq, making a big show of handing over the key, the imprisoned Al Qaeda militants are suddenly allowed to escape.
The British Empire prided itself on discovering warrior races in places it conquered -- Gurkhas, Sikhs, Pathans, as the Brits called Pashtuns. But why are they warrior cultures only until we need them to be warriors on our side? Then they're untrainably lame, even when we spend $25 billion on building up the Afghan military and the National Police Force, dubbed ''the gang that couldn't shoot straight'' by Newsweek.
Maybe we just can't train them to fight against each other. But why can't countries that produce fierce insurgencies produce good standing armies in a reasonable amount of time? Is it just that insurgencies can be more indiscriminate?
Things are so bad that Robert Blackwill, who was on W.'s national security team, wrote in Politico that the Obama administration should just admit failure and turn over the Pashtun South to the Taliban since it will inevitably control it anyway. He said that the administration doesn't appreciate the extent to which this is a Pashtun nationalist uprising.
We keep hearing that the last decade of war, where we pour in gazillions to build up Iraq and Afghanistan even as our own economy sputters, has weakened Al Qaeda.
But at his confirmation hearing on Tuesday before the Senate Armed Services Committee, Gen. James Mattis, who is slated to replace Gen. David Petraus, warned that Al Qaeda and its demon spawn represent a stark danger all over the Middle East and Central Asia.
While we're anchored in Afghanistan, the Al Qaeda network could roil Yemen ''to the breaking point,'' as Mattis put it in written testimony.
Pakistan's tribal areas ''remain the greatest danger as these are strategic footholds for Al Qaeda and its senior leaders, including Osama bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahiri,'' the blunt four-star general wrote, adding that they ''remain key to extremists' efforts to rally Muslim resistance worldwide.''
Questioned by John McCain, General Mattis said that we're not leaving Afghanistan; we're starting ''a process of transition to the Afghan forces.'' But that process never seems to get past the starting point.
During the debate over war funds on Tuesday, Representative Jim McGovern, a Massachusetts Democrat, warned that we are in a monstrous maze without the ball of string to find our way out.
''All of the puzzle has been put together, and it is not a pretty picture,'' he told The Times's Carl Hulse. ''Things are really ugly over there.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (78%); TALIBAN (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); TERRORISM (74%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (73%); AL-QAEDA (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ARMED FORCES (62%); PRISONS (60%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



709 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: HOUSE APPROVES MONEY FOR WARS, BUT RIFT DEEPENS

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and CARL HULSE; Jackie Calmes contributed reporting from Washington, and Tim Arango from Baghdad.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The House of Representatives agreed on Tuesday to provide $37 billion to continue financing America's two wars, but the vote showed deepening divisions and anxiety among Democrats over the course of the nearly nine-year-old conflict in Afghanistan.
The 308-to-114 vote, with strong Republican support, came after the leak of an archive of classified battlefield reports from Afghanistan that fueled new debate over the course of the war and whether President Obama's counterinsurgency strategy could work.
But Mr. Obama and top military officials said Tuesday that the disclosure of the documents should not force a rethinking of America's commitment to the war. As Mr. Obama told reporters in the Rose Garden, ''While I'm concerned about the disclosure of sensitive information from the battlefield that could potentially jeopardize individuals or operations, the fact is these documents don't reveal any issues that haven't already informed our public debate on Afghanistan.'' 
On a day of continuing political and military fallout over the leaked reports, Pentagon officials said that Pfc. Bradley Manning, 22, an Army intelligence analyst arrested last month on charges of leaking a video of an American helicopter attack in Iraq and charged this month with downloading more than 150,000 classified diplomatic cables, was a ''person of interest'' in an Army criminal investigation to find who provided the battlefield reports to the group WikiLeaks.
Administration officials said passage of the spending bill, which now goes to Mr. Obama for his signature, showed that the leak had not jeopardized Congressional support for the war and noted that the Senate passed the measure last week with no objection. Democratic leaders in the House said the Congress needed to act to provide the money troops overseas.
''The president is taking a wise and balanced approach in Afghanistan, and it deserves our support,'' said Representative Steny H. Hoyer, the Maryland Democrat and majority leader.
In the House vote, 148 Democrats and 160 Republicans backed the war spending, but 102 Democrats joined 12 Republicans in opposing the measure. Last year, 32 Democrats opposed a similar midyear spending bill. Among those voting against the bill on Tuesday was Representative David R. Obey, a Wisconsin Democrat and the chairman of the Appropriations Committee, the panel responsible for the measure.
Some of the Democratic opposition stemmed from the decision by party leaders to strip from the bill money that had been included in the original House version to help address the weak economy at home, including funds to help preserve teachers' jobs. But some of those voting against it said they were influenced by the leaked documents, which highlight the American military's struggles in Afghanistan and support claims that elements of Pakistan's intelligence service were helping the Taliban.
''All of the puzzle has been put together and it is not a pretty picture,'' said Representative Jim McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts. ''Things are really ugly over there. I think the White House continues to underestimate the depth of antiwar sentiment here.''
On another part of Capitol Hill, at a confirmation hearing for Gen. James N. Mattis to lead the military's Central Command and oversee the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, Democrats on the Senate Armed Services Committee pressed General Mattis about the course of the war.
Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, pointedly asked General Mattis whether he agreed that a July 2011 deadline for the start of American withdrawals from Afghanistan would mean shifting from the current troop-intensive counterinsurgency strategy to an ''increasingly important emphasis'' on counterterrorism. In other words, should not the United States use the date to begin moving toward a more limited strategy of hunting down insurgents without trying to rebuild Afghanistan? General Mattis quickly agreed.
''I think that is the approach, Senator,'' he said.
General Mattis and two Republicans on the panel, Senator John McCain of Arizona and Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, used the occasion to denounce the leaks, which Mr. McCain said were ''simply an extended footnote to a well-known reading of recent history.''
General Mattis agreed with Mr. McCain. ''One of the newspaper headlines was that war is a tense and dangerous thing,'' he said. ''Well, if that is news, I don't know who it's news to that's on this planet.''
In his opening statement, General Mattis declared, ''Despite any recent papers leaked to the media, we are remaining in the region; we are not leaving.''
General Mattis, who is expected to be confirmed by the committee and the full Senate, is to replace Gen. David H. Petraeus, whose tour at Central Command was cut short when Mr. Obama asked him to take command of the allied mission in Afghanistan after Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal was relieved.
At the White House, Mr. Obama echoed recent statements from his advisers and said that the problems that came to light in the leaked documents had long been known and that he was addressing them with a new strategy he put in place last year. ''Indeed, they point to the same challenges that led me to conduct an extensive review of our policy last fall,'' he said.
Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, made a similar argument on Tuesday in Baghdad. ''I think it's important to recognize, or emphasize, that these are documents that cover the period 2004 to 2009,'' Admiral Mullen said. ''Much has changed since 2009, particularly with respect to our focus, our new strategy in Afghanistan and Pakistan.''
At the Pentagon, officials declined to say whether Private Manning was a prime suspect in the investigation, but they did say that an Army criminal investigation into the leaks that Private Manning had been charged with -- the diplomatic cables and the video -- had now broadened to include an inquiry into the source of the leak of the classified battlefield reports.
In April, WikiLeaks posted the video, an explosive tape of an American helicopter attack in Baghdad that left 12 people dead, including two employees of the Reuters news agency. Adrian Lamo, a computer hacker who traded instant messages with Private Manning, has said the soldier claimed that he had leaked the cables and video to WikiLeaks and that he turned him into the authorities for national security reasons.
WikiLeaks, in keeping with its policy to protect the anonymity of its sources, has not acknowledged receiving the cables or video from Private Manning. Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, has refused to say whether the reports came from Private Manning, but he has said that WikiLeaks had offered to help with the private's legal defense.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 29, 2010, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about the House's approval of financing for the military's efforts in Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan, as well as for various other programs, referred incorrectly to the bill's scope and cost. The bill provides about $37 billion in military funding and related foreign aid, and $22 billion for other purposes; the total of $59 billion is not solely for the cost of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. (The error also appeared in an Op-Ed column on Wednesday.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: As American soldiers took cover, an Afghan soldier fired a grenade in a clash with insurgents in Kandahar Province on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RODRIGO ABD/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Gen. James N. Mattis, picked to lead the Central Command, met with senators on Tuesday for his confirmation hearing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ARMIES (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); MILITARY OFFENSES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); DAVE OBEY (58%); STENY HOYER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); IRAQ (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



710 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1722 words

HEADLINE: Videos Rouse Russian Anger Toward Police

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
NOVOROSSIYSK, Russia -- One day last fall, a police officer here put on his uniform and sat on a drab tan couch before a video camera. In a halting monotone, he recorded two video appeals to Vladimir V. Putin, 13 minutes in all.
He was a nobody cop from a nowhere city, but his words would startle this country.
''How can a police officer accept bribes?'' the officer asked. ''Do you understand where our society is heading?
''You talk about reducing corruption,'' he said. ''You say that it should not be just a crime, that it should be immoral. But it is not like that. I told my boss that the police are corrupt. And he told me that it cannot be done away with. 
''I am not afraid of quitting. I will tell you my name. I am Dymovsky, Aleksei Aleksandrovich.''
The videos were uploaded to YouTube in November, and a nation that has grown increasingly infuriated by police wrongdoing could not take its eyes off them.
Here, finally, was an insider acknowledging the enveloping culture of corruption in Russia's police forces -- the payoffs large and small, the illegal arrests to extort money, the police chiefs who buy fancy cars and mansions on modest state salaries.
The videos have been watched more than two million times, giving Mr. Dymovsky a kind of fame in Russia similar to that of the police whistleblower Frank Serpico, who in the 1970s spoke out against police corruption in New York City.
But despite the attention, Mr. Putin, the prime minister, has spurned him. So has Mr. Putin's protege, President Dmitri A. Medvedev, though Mr. Medvedev has conceded that police corruption has reached shameful levels. And local authorities quickly retaliated against the officer.
Mr. Dymovsky, 32, was immediately fired from his job here in Novorossiysk, a port on the Black Sea, 750 miles south of Moscow. The police interrogated him, his relatives and his close friends, and raided their homes.
During one search of Mr. Dymovsky's apartment, investigators tried to plant drugs, according to his wife, who was nearly nine months pregnant at the time.
In January, they arrested him and charged him with abuse of office and fraud under a law governing state secrets. The crime they alleged: embezzling $800 in petty cash from the department over several years.
In jail, Mr. Dymovsky was isolated, and prosecutors sought to subject him to a lengthy psychiatric examination. But with the affair proving an embarrassment, he was released after six weeks, and the charges were eventually dropped.
Still, the chief of the Novorossiysk police and a high-ranking officer sued Mr. Dymovsky for slander, and a judge ordered him to pay the equivalent of $3,500 in damages.
International research organizations rank Russia as having the world's most corrupt large economy, in part because of bribery linked to law enforcement personnel. But senior Russian officials have long seemed to view the loyalty of police officers as more important than their integrity.
And the authorities appeared to do nothing to correct the abuses that Mr. Dymovsky publicized.
The Interior Ministry, which oversees the police nationwide, denied Mr. Dymovsky's charges. All was in order, the ministry said, with the Novorossiysk police force.
Mr. Dymovsky's Internet appeals have been imitated by other Russians who are despondent about official malfeasance and believe that they have no other outlet for their views because the state-controlled media whitewashes these problems.
But the Kremlin is seeking to curtail this trend, at least among the police. Parliament, controlled by Mr. Putin's party, this month toughened penalties for officers who criticize their superiors. It is being called the ''Dymovsky law.''
Making Ends Meet
Mr. Dymovsky admits that his own hands are not clean. According to his personnel records, he had a promising career as a police officer, with commendations and promotions. Even so, he said in an interview, he took bribes.
As a major, he was paid only about $450 a month. He said that the authorities know that on such low salaries, officers must find other ways to make ends meet.
He insisted that he accepted only small bribes, never more than $20 at a time. But this was his point: Corruption is endemic.
''The system, from your first day at work, requires you to go out and obtain bribes,'' he said. ''How else are you going to survive?''
Mr. Dymovsky also described a practice that is considered common in Russia: When officers end their shifts, they have to turn over a portion of their bribes to the so-called cashier, a senior member of the department. Typically, $25 to $100 a day.
If officers do not pay up, they are disciplined.
Mr. Dymovsky said that by 2007, he had become so demoralized that he pledged to himself that he would never again accept a bribe.
Around the same time, he tried to speak with Mr. Putin on his annual call-in television show, during which he responds to complaints and questions from Russians. Mr. Putin was president then.
Mr. Dymovsky said he had called and informed the operator that he hoped to ask Mr. Putin what he was doing about the ''lawlessness and corruption'' among the police.
He was kept off the air, and later found out that his call had been traced. The Interior Ministry in Moscow alerted his department, and he was reprimanded at several meetings. He was told that a letter had been drafted under his name, in which he would deny having called.
''I realized how this system of covering each other's backs worked, and that it was not just restricted to Novorossiysk, but reached as far as the Kremlin,'' Mr. Dymovsky said.
He decided to record the videos after months of tension.
Mr. Dymovsky said he was upset that his superiors did not care that he had suffered a work-related injury to his arm. (Mr. Dymovsky devoted part of his appeals to denouncing workplace conditions for the police.)
In person these days, Mr. Dymovsky is far more relaxed than the stiff officer in the videos. Tall, with light red hair and a slightly mischievous laugh, he has become a confident public speaker, and seems to enjoy -- if not crave -- the spotlight.
Luxury on $25,000 a Year
In Novorossiysk, Mr. Dymovsky offered a tour of what he maintained were among the most dispiriting symbols of corruption: the luxury homes of the police brass.
The main stop was the spacious beachfront home where the head of the department, Chief Vladimir Chernositov, lives.
The building, with a conspicuous light blue roof, is on the Black Sea, some of the most expensive real estate in Russia, valued at roughly $800,000 an acre, according to advertisements.
Chief Chernositov has not denied that the home is his, but has never publicly explained how he can afford it. A police chief's salary for a city like Novorossiysk, which has 225,000 people, is typically about $25,000 annually, experts said.
One of Chief Chernositov's deputies, Vladimir Grebenyuk, said in an interview that the department was offended by Mr. Dymovsky's video appeals.
He said Mr. Dymovsky had been an average, though not disgruntled, employee.
Deputy Chief Grebenyuk said that after the videos were publicized, a special committee examined Mr. Dymovsky's accusations.
''Not a single fact presented by Dymovsky was confirmed,'' Deputy Chief Grebenyuk said. ''Everything he said was false and invented.''
''You know, our system, the system of the Interior Ministry, is very transparent,'' he said.
Asked how many members of the department had been punished for corruption recently, he said the number was tiny. But he would not provide any details.
A Backlash Felt in Moscow
Those who have helped Mr. Dymovsky or demanded a wholesale revamping of the police have also come under pressure.
In Novorossiysk, a human rights activist named Vadim Karastelyov was jailed for a week for distributing leaflets asking residents to attend a rally for Mr. Dymovsky. After Mr. Karastelyov was released, he was savagely beaten by two strangers who did not try to rob him.
Mr. Karastelyov had been receiving anonymous threats by phone and text message, but the police would not provide him with protection. He recently fled Novorossiysk with his family.
''The police leaders want everyone to forget about Dymovsky, so they can continue to doing what they have been doing -- committing corrupt acts and fabricating cases against innocent people,'' Mr. Karastelyov said.
The backlash extended to Moscow.
A few weeks after Mr. Dymovsky's video appeals, a senior member of Parliament from Mr. Putin's own party, Andrei Makarov, declared that the police were so corrupt nationwide that the entire Interior Ministry should be abolished.
Mr. Makarov was disavowed by his party.
''When I made that statement, believe me, for several days, no one knew what would happen to me,'' Mr. Makarov said in an interview. ''It was as if, 'How dare he!' What happened was that I was talking about the people who have the real power in this country.''
Mr. Makarov said he was not a fan of Mr. Dymovsky, expressing doubts about Mr. Dymovsky's honesty. But Mr. Makarov said reform was desperately needed.
Reform Plan Stalls
He said the government should dismiss half of the country's 1.2 million police officers and establish a system to fairly adjudicate complaints about the police.
President Medvedev has proposed reducing the number of officers by 20 percent, but there are already indications that his reform proposal has stalled.
''Police officers know for sure that nobody will hold them accountable if a crime is not solved, but they will be held accountable if they allow a demonstration to occur,'' Mr. Makarov said. ''They will not be held accountable for putting an innocent person in jail or beating one on the street, but they will be if somebody takes a stand against the authorities.''
Mr. Dymovsky said the only real answer is for Russians to create a grass-roots anticorruption movement. Since his release from jail, he has been traveling around the country, trying to rally support for new policies.
But he is still apparently considered a danger.
Recently, he went to Novosibirsk, Russia's third-largest city, to attend a protest. He said he was accosted by four plainclothes police officers, who told him that if he ever wanted to see his family again, he should leave and never return.
Above the Law: Articles in this series examine corruption and abuse of power in Russia two decades after the end of Communism.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Aleksei Dymovsky, a former policeman, on the Black Sea shore in his hometown, Novorossiysk, in southern Russia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Dymovsky, top, in an image from a video posted on YouTube, in which he protested police corruption. In another video image, above, Vadim Karastelyov, who was jailed and later beaten after supporting Mr. Dymovsky. (A8) MAP: Other Reports of Police Corruption and Abuse: JULY 2010, ST. PETERSBURG Five senior police officers, including three captains, arrested on charges of extortion, kidnapping and other crimes in connection with a scheme to seize real estate. JUNE 2010, ST. PETERSBURG SUBURBS Two police officers dragged a man from his car on a highway and severely beat him, then torched his car. The attack was revenge for having cut off the officers' car on the road. APRIL 2009, MOSCOW A police major went on a shooting rampage in a supermarket, killing two and wounding seven. Despite a history of disciplinary problems, he had risen rapidly through the ranks. After the attack, Moscow's police chief praised him as a ''good professional.'' MARCH 2010, SAMARA A former city council member was handcuffed to the saddle of a horse by a mounted police officer. The horse ran off, dragging him with it. He later died. MARCH 2010, ASTRAKHAN Twenty-six members of the traffic police charged with accepting bribes. Their leader accused of receiving at least $5,000 a month. MARCH 2010, MOSCOW Traffic police ordered several drivers to use their cars to blockade a busy road to stop the vehicle of a suspect. The drivers had to remain in their cars. The suspect crashed through the cars and escaped. Drivers escaped injury. FEBRUARY 2010, MOSCOW SUBURBS Three senior police officers arrested on charges of kidnapping two sisters and trying to extort $65,000 for their release. DECEMBER 2009, MOSCOW A police lieutenant accused a snow plow driver of scraping his car, then shot the driver in the knee. The driver bled to death. OCTOBER 2009, TUVA REPUBLIC A traffic police officer shot two teenagers he had pulled over on suspicion of driving while intoxicated, killing one.(A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); ARRESTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); BRIBERY (78%); LIBEL & SLANDER (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (78%); LITIGATION (77%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (76%); EXTORTION (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); EMBEZZLEMENT (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); JUDGES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); DAMAGES (64%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010



711 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: A Tylenol Alternative, Free From Novartis

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
The Swiss drug giant Novartis plans to give away up to 250,000 bottles of its new liquid children's medicine, Triaminic Fever Reducer Pain Reliever, in an effort to woo parents frustrated by a nationwide recall and shortage of a competing product -- liquid children's Tylenol.
Both the Tylenol, made by a unit of Johnson & Johnson, and the new Triaminic product contain acetaminophen, a drug that mitigates pain and fever. Novartis valued its marketing program, which offers rebates to consumers who buy the Triaminic fever medication from Aug. 2 through Aug. 8, at $1.5 million. Triaminic, a 50-year-old brand, already makes children's cough and cold medicines. 
Industry analysts said Novartis had made a strategic move to gain market share at an opportune moment.
McNeil Consumer Healthcare, the Johnson & Johnson unit, recalled an estimated 136 million bottles of liquid children's Tylenol and other pediatric medications in April because of manufacturing deficiencies.
McNeil, to make an upgrade, has closed a Pennsylvania plant that made the drugs in the recall, causing a shortage of children's medications at many drugstores.
''If you are going to take on children's Tylenol, now is the time to do it,'' said Mick Kolassa, the chairman of Medical Marketing Economics, a firm that consults with drug makers about product marketing and pricing. ''It's a beautiful opportunity. There's concern. There's a shortage. There's a wide opening in the marketplace.''
Sales at McNeil fell $200 million in the second quarter because of the recall and plant shutdown, Johnson & Johnson executives said last week during a conference call with investors. They estimated that the problems at McNeil would reduce annual sales by about $600 million.
McNeil brands like Tylenol, Motrin and Benadryl have long dominated the market for children's medicines. But many parents were frustrated by the scope of the recall, said Dr. Jeannette Levenstein, a pediatrician in Encino, Calif., who has written about the issue on the parenting Web site strollertraffic.com And, she added, they have been frustrated by a dearth of generic alternatives.
''It certainly has put a dent in our parents' capability to keep their kids' cool and their own sensibilities in line when they are clamoring for generics and they are nowhere to be found,'' Dr. Levenstein wrote in an e-mail on Wednesday.
Now Novartis is hoping to build brand loyalty with its new children's fever and pain relief syrup.
The company was developing a fever product before the Tylenol recall. But the company sped up the introduction of its product to fill a void in the marketplace, a company spokeswoman said.
''We accelerated the timing because, given the lack of availability of some over-the-counter children's analgesic products, we felt it was an important time to offer parents a reliable fever reducer and pain reliever product for their children from a trusted brand,'' Julie Masow, a spokeswoman for Novartis Consumer Health, wrote in an e-mail.
The Triaminic giveaway uses the slogan ''restock your medicine cabinet,'' a phrase intended to remind people of the McNeil products they may have thrown out because of the recall, Mr. Kolassa, the industry consultant, said.
''It's saying, O.K., you've gotten rid of the Tylenol because of the problems and now here's a chance to replace it,'' Mr. Kolassa said. ''It's a savvy move.''
Even so, some industry analysts said it was difficult to quantify the size of the market opportunity for products that compete with children's Tylenol.
''Novartis is trying to take advantage of this opportunity to capture a portion of the market left vacant with a brand that will reassure parents,'' two analysts at Raymond James wrote Wednesday in a note to investors. But consumers could turn to generic alternatives, the analysts wrote, so ''the impact for Novartis is tough to evaluate at this stage.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAKE GUEVARA /THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANALGESICS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (89%); COMMON COLD (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PARENTING (78%); PAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); PARENTS (78%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (78%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (78%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (77%); BRANDING (76%); NEW PRODUCTS (76%); MARKET SHARE (76%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (75%); BRAND EQUITY (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (73%); SALES REBATES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: NOVARTIS AG (96%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (93%); MCNEIL CONSUMER HEALTH CARE (58%)

TICKER: NVS (NYSE) (96%); NOVN (SWX) (96%); JNJ (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (96%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (96%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



712 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: With Squeeze on Credit, Microlending Blossoms

BYLINE: By KRISTINA SHEVORY

 BODY:
Amanda Keppert is convinced that she would have lost Mandy's Korner, her hot dog stand in San Jose, Calif., if she had not received a type of loan that is more common in the third world than in the United States.
Last year, as fewer people ate out and layoffs mounted in Silicon Valley, sales plunged more than 60 percent at the once-thriving Mandy's Korner. ''My business was drowning and I was afraid it would go under,'' Ms. Keppert said. While she picked up catering work at a local concert site, it wasn't enough to pay her expenses. She had invested all of her savings in the business, and she did not want to see it go under.
But her loan applications were rejected repeatedly at banks in San Jose. Then she found Opportunity Fund, a local microlender that has teamed up with Kiva.org, one of the best-known international microlenders. Kiva, which has lent more than $150 million in 53 countries, had just begun a pilot program lending to business owners in the United States.
Through Kiva, Ms. Keppert obtained a $6,500 loan that she has three years to pay back and that carries a 6 percent interest rate. She used the money to buy an ice maker, a generator to save on propane costs and large signs to advertise her business. 
Before the economic collapse, microfinance -- the granting of very small loans, mostly to poor people -- was a concept most closely associated with the developing world. But tight credit and the recession have increased the demand for smaller loans in the United States, giving microlending a higher profile and broadening its appeal. Both Kiva and Grameen Bank, a microfinance group that is based in Bangladesh and was started by Muhammad Yunus, winner of the Nobel Peace Prize for his groundbreaking work in microlending, have widened their lending to Americans.
In addition, last year's economic stimulus bill granted $54 million to the Small Business Administration for lending and technical assistance to microlenders. Cities like San Francisco and New York have expanded or introduced their own microfinance programs. This year, loan applications at many of the country's 362 microfinance outfits, some of which have been quietly operating since the 1980s, have more than doubled. Many of the groups expect them to keep rising as other financing streams remain tight for small companies.
''Everyone is knocking on our doors, even those with good credit,'' said Galen Gondolfi, a senior loan counselor at Justine Petersen, a microfinance group based in St. Louis.
Since the recession, credit cards are harder to come by, real estate values remain low -- making it harder to borrow against home equity -- and banks have tightened standards. ''The banking system has lots of money, but they don't have the kinds of applicants that you want to risk someone's savings for,'' said William Dunkelberg, chief economist of the National Federation of Independent Business and chairman of Liberty Bell Bank, based in Evesham, N.J. Small-business owners need to be reminded ''that banks are not venture capitalists,'' he added. ''We're not in the business of funding great ideas.''
Most banks, large or small, do not bother granting business loans of less than $50,000 because there's not enough profit to balance the risk. By contrast, microfinance programs in the United States typically lend $35,000 or less to small businesses with five or fewer employees. They charge more than traditional banks, of course, with interest rates ranging from 5 to 18 percent.
Unlike mainstream banks, which focus on an applicant's credit score, the programs consider passion and commitment to the business. Most require that loan recipients take workshops on money management, marketing and business plans, and some have income caps.
What leads microlenders to work with some of those applicants is a distinct mission. Most are not trying to make a profit; they are trying to alleviate poverty.
''For us to make money, we'd have to charge 15 to 20 percent on our loans, '' said Jeff Reynolds, director of a program in Lyons, Neb., called REAP, which charges a maximum of 7.25 percent.
Early this year, Craig Adams, owner of a wine shop in St. Louis, Vino Vitae, tried to get a $50,000 loan to open an adjoining restaurant and event space. He was turned down first by his longtime bank, which said he had too much debt, and then by a second bank. A local venture capitalist insisted on fees that Mr. Adams was not willing to pay.
He was finally referred to Justine Petersen, and in March, he received a $15,000 loan with a 12 percent interest rate. He has 10 years to repay the loan. He has had to scale back, but he is using the money on architectural plans and inventory. ''It's not the greatest way to go,'' said Mr. Adams, 43, ''but it's the only way to go.''
Heavy demand for loans persuaded the Grameen Bank, which has lent $9.4 billion through more than 2,500 of its branches worldwide, to open four new branches in New York and one in Omaha in the last two years, under the name Grameen America.
It also has plans to open offices in San Francisco, Boston, Washington, and Charlotte, N.C. Grameen, a nonprofit, tries to help people who fall below the poverty line and do not have access to mainstream banking, offering first-time loans of as much as $1,500 with an interest rate of 15 percent on a declining balance. In the developing world, established businesses generally receive loans of about $380. Obviously, loans of $1,500 can only go so far in a developed nation, but they can fix up a delivery vehicle. They can also buy a street cart for a vendor, a sewing machine for a tailor or hair dyes for a hairdresser.
Unlike other microlenders, Grameen requires its borrowers to join a group of entrepreneurs that meets weekly. Borrowers are also required to save a percentage of their weekly income -- at least $2 -- and to pay a portion of their loan's principal and interest.
Kiva, the organization that backed Ms. Keppert's hot dog stand, works much like a middleman. It teamed up with microfinance groups that upload profiles of individual entrepreneurs and their loan requests to www.Kiva.org. People browse the profiles, decide which ones, if any, they would like to lend money to, and then Kiva disburses the money through the microlender (the Opportunity Fund in Ms. Keppert's case). The individual lenders get their money back when a business owner repays the loan.
The pilot program that Ms. Keppert took part in has been available in California and New York since last summer. ''It seemed very timely,'' said Premal Shah, president of Kiva. ''People talk about buying local -- why not lend local? It's a personal stimulus package if you're the working poor.''
Overseas, Kiva borrowers can seek loans of up to $3,000, while in the United States, borrowers can take out loans of as much as $10,000. Since its American debut, Kiva has helped lend $900,000 to 137 American companies. The average American loan is about $5,600 and has a term of about two years and three months.
''People are compelled to do something in their backyard,'' said Gina Harman, president and chief executive of Accion USA, a microlender and partner in Kiva's American pilot program. ''Suddenly, giving $1 to someone in Ghana isn't as important as giving to someone here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amanda Keppert, owner of a hot dog stand in San Jose, Calif., took a $6,500 microloan from Kiva for her business. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROFINANCE (91%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (67%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (60%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); PROPANE (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); GRAMEEN BANK (53%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); BANGLADESH (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



713 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: In Haiti, a Lesson for U.S. Health Care

BYLINE: By JAMES WILENTZ. 
James Wilentz is a cardiologist at the Lenox Hill Heart and Vascular Institute.

 BODY:
IN February, a month after Haiti's earthquake, I went down to Port-au-Prince as part of a team that was helping to reactivate cardiac care in the city's public hospital. For several months since, I have observed how the earthquake and its aftermath profoundly changed Haiti's health care system. Over that time, I have come to the unorthodox conclusion that Haiti's tragic experience may show us a way to improve health care in the United States.
Let me explain. The sudden availability in Haiti of free high-quality care from foreign doctors put enormous competitive pressure on the private local doctors, who had already been working under difficult conditions. Watching this situation unfold, I found myself wondering if the same would happen to private medical services back in the United States were our government to suddenly provide high-quality, low-cost health care.
Haiti, with the worst health care record in the Western Hemisphere -- the infant mortality rate is nine times that of the United States and the maternal mortality rate is 50 times as high -- was ill prepared to help disaster victims. For the public hospital in Port-au-Prince, earthquake damage only made things worse. Into this vacuum surged hundreds of international doctors and nongovernmental health care organizations. 
In the beginning, of course, those with immediate injuries were treated first. But even after the earthquake victims had been taken care of, lines more than a quarter-mile long still formed at the hospital entrance. There were mothers carrying babies with swollen bellies, prematurely old men and women with waterlogged legs and labored breathing, people with painful sores and lots of people coughing. These were Haitians who'd had no access to medical care in a long time and who suddenly saw hope in a hospital full of foreign doctors eager to help at no charge.
This humanitarian aid came with a downside though: it caused many of Haiti's local private clinics to lose business. One such clinic is Michel Theard's cardiac practice, near the public hospital where I worked. Before the earthquake and during the immediate aftermath, Dr. Theard did echocardiograms (ultrasound images of the beating heart) for cardiac patients, because the public hospital lacks the equipment to do them. His ultrasound pictures, and those done by other private Haitian cardiologists, often at charity rates, enabled us to diagnose many conditions for patients in the public hospital.
But because Dr. Theard, and the private hospital with which he is affiliated, cannot compete with free foreign doctors, there is a danger that he will no longer be able to stay in business and provide echocardiograms for the poor.
There are many other services that only private doctors provide in Haiti, because the public hospitals are so poorly financed. The rudimentary intensive care unit at the public hospital has no heart monitors, oxygen sensors or any other kind of modern medical equipment. The only thing ''intensive'' about the I.C.U. is that a health care worker (doctor, nurse or nurse-anesthetist) is present at all times. A CT scanner donated to the hospital in the early '90s lies rusting outside one of the buildings, sad evidence of the public medical system's failure to provide adequate care.
Patients who can afford it get specialized procedures like CT scans and echocardiograms at private clinics and then return to the public hospitals for free care. This is also the case for many medicines: family members buy them at a pharmacy and bring them back to be kept under the patient's hospital pillow for dispensing at the prescribed times.
Perversely, by shoring up the capacity of the normally dysfunctional public health system during this crisis, the foreign doctors may be further damaging Haiti's fragile medical sector. Once they leave, who will be left with the will and the capital to adequately care for Haitians?
What may be needed, some have suggested, is for key nongovernmental organizations now offering health care in Haiti to work alongside the government's Ministry of Health to rebuild destroyed facilities and to better train Haitian doctors and other providers. If the organizations could also cooperate financially by directing some of their budget into accounts run jointly with Haiti's Ministry of Health, the government could reimburse providers like Dr. Theard for their work, thus removing competition between the foreign doctors and local private doctors. In time, as the Haitian government took control of health care delivery and education, the nongovernmental organizations would fade from the scene.
HAITI'S crisis -- and its possible solution -- provides a mirror for understanding our own difficulties delivering good health care in the United States. After all, it was a similar tension between private and public medical care that made it impossible for Congress, in passing reform legislation this year, to create a single-payer public health system. Many private health-care organizations -- primarily for-profit insurance companies -- strenuously resisted it, fearing that if the government suddenly provided high-quality, low-cost care for a significant part of the population, they would lose profits or go out of business. Worries about competition between public and private medicine, in other words, are universal.
It is clear that the American health care system functions at a much higher level than its Haitian counterpart does, but that's mostly a matter of national wealth. Our healthier economy has allowed us to have a relatively viable private-sector health care system, though there remains tremendous disparity from one economic class to another in infant and maternal mortality and access to basic care. And now, because the growing cost of our health care system is unsustainable, we are faced with the need to consider an alternative.
The Haitian situation also suggests a solution -- a way to provide health care for all in the United States without destroying our private medical sector. (This, by the way, was always President Obama's goal, no matter how the right tried to defame his proposals.)
A public-private partnership like the one contemplated for Haiti could be created here. The government, through the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, could team up with health care systems that provide high-quality care to people of all income levels -- Kaiser-Permanente, in California, comes to mind, as does the Mayo Clinic network; the Geisinger Health System, in Pennsylvania; Partners HealthCare, in Boston; and Intermountain Healthcare, in Utah -- to provide a public option. Private doctors could be paid for the work they did for the new public entity. People who did not want to join such a health plan could remain with their current private insurers.
Health care systems wishing to be part of the new partnership would have to demonstrate competence as well as fiscal responsibility. Those that did not provide good care at a reasonable price might fail, but in the long run the system could serve the broadest cross section of America, and it could do so without undermining private doctors -- or at least not those who are motivated by care itself rather than by mere profit.
Although it is unrealistic to expect Congress to rewrite the health care law to allow for this proposal, there is room within the law for a state or regional pilot project to experiment with public-private medical partnerships.
Dr. Theard's clinic in Port-au-Prince has not yet closed, but he tells me it is now fighting for its life, with little or no money for salaries, equipment or rent. ''We are still open but without any help from any sector,'' he said in an e-mail last week. ''Equipment needs repair, buildings need repair and we are doing the best we can.''
Haiti's need to fix its health care system is, if anything, more urgent than ours. But its best solution, a public-private partnership, is one that could easily work for America, too.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JIM FRAZIER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (89%); MEDICAL ULTRASOUND (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (77%); CARDIOLOGY (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (77%); HEART DISEASE (77%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (77%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (76%); INFANT MORTALITY (72%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (72%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (72%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (71%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



714 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Bell Case Underlines Limits Of Wrongful-Death Payouts

BYLINE: By A. G. SULZBERGER and TIM STELLOH

 BODY:
The $3.25 million settlement that the city announced this week with the estate of Sean Bell, who was shot to death by the police in 2006, serves as a reminder of a ruthless truth about calculating settlements: It is generally cheaper to settle a case in which there was a death than one in which there was a serious injury.
''Many times when people come into my office,'' said Susan M. Karten, a lawyer who has handled high-profile cases involving police misconduct, ''I have to explain that when a person is shot and dies in some incident, their case is worth little under New York law, but if that same person who was shot lives and suffers some horrible injury, that can be worth millions.'' 
''I hate to say it this way,'' Ms. Karten added, ''but you're better off killing someone than maiming him.''
The Bell settlement, for the two children he had with his fiancee, Nicole Paultre Bell, came six weeks after the city agreed to a record payout of $9.9 million to Barry Gibbs, who had been released after almost two decades in prison because of evidence that he had been framed by a corrupt police detective.
The police brutality case against Abner Louima resulted in an $8.75 million settlement. And in the crush of litigation over the 2003 crash of a Staten Island ferry, the largest settlement by far went not to the estates of any of the people killed but to a man, James McMillan Jr., rendered a quadriplegic.
In the Bell lawsuit, the settlements to be paid to two friends of his who were wounded in the episode totaled more than the payment to his estate. Joseph Guzman, a friend who was struck by 17 bullets, will receive $3 million; Trent Benefield, who was less seriously injured, will receive $900,000.
The plaintiffs' lawyers will receive one-third of the payouts, subject to court approval of the settlement. The money for Mr. Bell's children will be placed in a trust fund that will not be available to them until they are 18, though the family can apply to have the money released sooner, one of the lawyers said.
Mr. Bell's fiancee will receive nothing, because New York law does not permit such payouts to unwed partners. Mr. Bell was killed on the morning of the day he was to be married.
Richard D. Emery, a lawyer who works on police abuse cases, said the city's settlement probably reflected a desire to conclude a case that had brought continuing negative publicity, rather than any obligation under the law. The $3.25 million figure, he said, is ''ridiculously high if you look at it in terms of wrongful death,'' but he added, ''It's modest if you look at the egregiousness and outrageousness of the actions of the police.''
The reason for what lawyers described as a fairly modest payout to the Bell estate was largely that compensation in wrongful-death cases is limited to the loss of financial support and future companionship suffered by a child or a spouse.
The result is a calculation in which the death of a middle-aged head of household with a steady income and children would result in a far larger payout than the death of, for example, an unemployed, unmarried teenager.
That partly explains why the family of another victim of a fatal police shooting, Amadou Diallo, refused for years to accept the city's settlement offers, said Anthony H. Gair, the lawyer who handled the case.
''He had no children, he had no next of kin, he was making no money selling things on the street,'' Mr. Gair said. ''They were offering very little money -- way under a million. They were arguing under New York wrongful-death law it wasn't worth very much. And they were right.''
The city eventually increased its offer to $3 million, which the family accepted. Mr. Gair said the state's laws on the subject were ''the most antiquated, backward wrongful-death laws in the United States.'' (The city's largest settlement in a wrongful-death case, $8.75 million, went to a high-paid lawyer and a father of four, John Healy, 44, who died in the ferry crash.)
Another factor is that wrongful-death cases typically carry limited damages for pain and suffering. One study found that the average payout for wrongful-death cases had been about twice as much as for herniated disc cases and a third as much as for cases involving brain damage, said Mark Geistfeld, who teaches civil litigation at New York University School of Law.
''Obviously a herniated disc isn't half as bad as wrongful death,'' Mr. Geistfeld said.
The settlement of the Bell lawsuit was reached on Tuesday at the end of two days of intense negotiations.
''At one point it seemed that both sides were going to walk away without a settlement,'' said Scott Rynecki, one of the plaintiffs' lawyers. ''It wasn't until the last half-hour that we finally closed the gaps.''
Joel Berger, a lawyer who worked for the city's Law Department from 1988 to 1996, said the Bell settlement appeared to be consistent with the city's typical strategy.
''The city always tries to get away with paying as little as possible,'' Mr. Berger said, ''and in the end it always caves in and settles, because it fears what the jury might award in such a high-profile matter. Make it go away: that has been the policy of this administration.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nicole Paultre Bell in Brooklyn on Wednesday with the lawyer Sanford A. Rubenstein and her mother, Laura Harper. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILY BERL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); WRONGFUL DEATH & SURVIVAL (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); LAWYERS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); MISCONDUCT (71%); PARALYSIS (71%); APPROVALS (61%); CORRUPTION (51%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%); FERRIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



715 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Group Finds Some Easing Of Bribery Across Globe

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH

 BODY:
PARIS -- Efforts to stop companies in advanced economies from bribing foreign officials to win contracts are improving, although a ''disturbing'' number of governments are still not keeping their commitments in this area, an advocacy group said in a report released Wednesday.
The study from Transparency International said it was ''very positive'' that seven of 36 countries evaluated were actively enforcing the Anti-Bribery Convention of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to which they were a party. 
The convention was signed in 1997 and was enacted two years later. It commits signatories to make the bribing of foreign public officials a crime in the company's home country.
Active enforcement is considered as having adequate rules and structures in place to deter foreign bribery.
The seven with best practice were Denmark, Germany, Italy, Norway, Switzerland, Britain and the United States. Those countries, the report said, represent approximately 30 percent of world exports.
Since last year, three of those countries -- Denmark, Italy and Britain -- had improved.
Nine countries were considered to have ''moderate enforcement'' -- still an inadequate deterrent -- including France, Spain, Japan, Sweden and the Netherlands.
''The most disappointing finding is that there are still 20 countries -- including G-8 member Canada -- with little or no enforcement, representing about 15 percent of world exports,'' the report said.
Along with Canada, Australia, Austria, Brazil, Israel, Greece, Turkey and South Africa were cited in this group.
''That number has shown little change in the last five years,'' the report said. ''This is deeply disturbing because companies in these countries will feel little or no constraint about foreign bribery, and many are not even aware of the O.E.C.D. Convention.''
''The current situation is unstable because the convention is predicated on the collective commitment of all the parties to end foreign bribery,'' it said. ''Unless enforcement is sharply increased, existing support could well erode.
The hope for the convention is that Russia, China and India can eventually be drawn into signing. None of those three giant economies is yet a member of the organization.
An area of concern is that Chinese companies in particular have been investing heavily in Africa in recent years, pushing for access to oil and minerals across the continent. African governments have eagerly accepted loans, in part because they are free of the conditions that international and Western lenders often attach.
Russia's important role in energy supply to Europe and the lack of transparency in the governance of many corporations is also a concern.
The report cited ''danger signals'' including efforts in some countries to limit the role of investigative magistrates, shorten statutes of limitations and extend immunities from prosecution.
It praised Britain's decision to enact a new antibribery law in April 2010 as a ''crucial step'' in updating antiquated laws. The law is expected to be enacted in April 2011.
It also noted that during the last year, prosecutors in the United States, Germany and Britain settled a number of important foreign bribery cases in which the defendants agreed to pay fines amounting to hundreds of millions of dollars.
Some of the most important recent bribery investigations have been started by money laundering investigations -- including those involving Siemens of Germany and Alstom of France. Here, the report said, Switzerland had ''played a notable role.''
France was criticized for having ''several inadequacies'' in its legal framework including the short duration of the statute of limitation, three years.
A total of 38 countries have ratified the convention; Iceland and Luxembourg are among them, but were not part of the Transparency International study.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIBERY (91%); BEST PRACTICES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (58%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (74%) DENMARK (92%); AFRICA (92%); CHINA (92%); CANADA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NORWAY (79%); SPAIN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); INDIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (76%); FRANCE (74%); AUSTRIA (58%); GREECE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



716 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: In Roosevelt Archive, History as He Made It

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
A month after the Nazis invaded Poland in 1939, Joseph P. Kennedy, the American ambassador in London and father of a future president, expressed grave doubts about ''this war for idealism'' against Hitler.
''I can't see any use in everybody in Europe going busted and having communism run riot,'' Kennedy wrote to Marguerite LeHand, President Franklin D. Roosevelt's personal secretary. ''My own belief is that the economics of Germany would have taken care of Hitler long ago before this if he didn't have a chance to wave that flag every once in a while.''
''But, of course,'' he added, ''one isn't supposed to say this out loud.'' 
Kennedy's letter is one of nine documents released Wednesday by the National Archives in Washington, part of a coming cache of letters, drafts and notes related to Roosevelt's presidency. David S. Ferriero, the national archivist, said the rest of the archive, which had been in the possession of Grace Tully, Roosevelt's last personal secretary, was expected in November.
The documents include a shopping list of vital recovery legislation; a recommendation to promote Col. George C. Marshall to brigadier general before the war; a congratulatory note from Mussolini after Roosevelt's 1932 election; and a letter from Lucy Mercer Rutherfurd, with whom Roosevelt had an affair, arranging to visit the president in Warm Springs, Ga., a week before his death. (''I am terribly worried,'' she wrote.)
''You actually see F.D.R.'s thought process,'' said Robert W. Clark, supervisory archivist of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library in Hyde Park, N.Y., who is reviewing the documents. ''He never wrote memoirs, he wasn't a reflective kind of guy. This shows him instinctively making decisions that he knew would be for the betterment of the country and the world.''
When Roosevelt solicited the advice about Marshall from Gen. John J. Pershing, who led the American Expeditionary Forces in World War I, ''he's essentially headhunting, so when the time is necessary he has access to this guy,'' Mr. Clark said. ''A chit to Harry Hopkins about public works programs shows the interconnectiveness of everything he's doing: using bales of cotton to make overalls, which would support farm prices, which would put money in people's pockets and improve the economy.''
''It's history in rough draft,'' Mr. Clark said.
After five years of negotiation and special legislation, all 5,000 Tully papers were donated to the Roosevelt Library at the National Archives by the Sun-Times Media Group, a successor to Hollinger International, whose chief executive, Conrad Black, bought the documents in 2002. Mr. Black's biography, ''Franklin Delano Roosevelt: Champion of Freedom'' was published in 2003; it was unclear if he drew on them in the book.
Kennedy's letter presaged his further public disparagement of the war and the future of democracy -- comments that, along with his efforts to arrange a conciliatory meeting with Hitler, forced him to resign as ambassador in 1940. ''The British are going about this war hating it, but with the determination to fight it out,'' Kennedy wrote. ''I still don't know what they are fighting for that is possible of accomplishment.''
Kennedy also criticized Thomas E. Dewey, the Manhattan district attorney, who appeared to be a front-runner for the Republican presidential nomination in 1940. ''To have Dewey as candidate of a big party to run the United States with the problems that are facing,'' he said, ''it is just the surest indication that either I have gone completely screwy or else I have lived 10 years too long.''
In a 1933 handwritten letter, Mussolini expressed admiration for Roosevelt and hope that they might meet to ''discuss the outstanding world problems in which the United States and Italy are mutually interested.'' He cited the countries' ''cordial and friendly'' relations, adding, ''I firmly believe and confidently hope'' they will grow stronger.
The letters also reveal Roosevelt's lighter side. In 1943, Roosevelt wrote to Ms. Tully from Cairo, where he was meeting with Winston Churchill and Chiang Kai-Shek before the Tehran Conference with Stalin, to say he had visited the Pyramids and made friends with the Sphinx.
''Congress should know her,'' he concluded.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mussolini wrote to Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1933, expressing admiration and hoping for a meeting to ''discuss the outstanding world problems.''
Joseph P. Kennedy, then an ambassador, criticized the war and Thomas E. Dewey in a 1939 letter to Roosevelt's personal secretary.
 President Roosevelt traveling in 1942 with his personal secretary, Grace Tully. See her collection of documents at nytimes.com/national. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATIONAL ARCHIVES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); HISTORY (77%); WORLD WAR I (77%); LIBRARIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ARMED FORCES (65%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

COMPANY: SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (80%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (74%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



717 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Online Betting Barred by U.S. Gets 2nd Look

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With pressure mounting on the federal government to find new revenues, Congress is considering legalizing, and taxing, an activity it banned just four years ago: Internet gambling.
On Wednesday, the House Financial Services Committee approved a bill that would effectively legalize online poker and other nonsports betting, overturning a 2006 federal ban that critics say merely drove Web-based casinos offshore.
The bill would direct the Treasury Department to license and regulate Internet gambling operations, while a companion measure, pending before another committee, would allow the Internal Revenue Service to tax such businesses. Winnings by individuals would also be taxed, as regular gambling winnings are now. The taxes could yield as much as $42 billion for the government over 10 years, supporters said.
The two measures -- which are backed by banks and credit unions but have divided casinos and American Indian tribes -- are far from becoming law. A bill to legalize online poker sponsored by Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, has not yet had a hearing. The Congressional timetable has little spare room before the midterm elections, and the Obama administration has not taken a position. 
But the vote suggests a willingness by Congress to look for unconventional ways of plugging holes in the budget and comes as struggling states have also been looking to extract revenue from the gambling industry, which took a hit as consumers cut back on travel and entertainment during the recession but continues to reap billions of dollars in annual profits. The committee vote Wednesday was 41 to 22, with seven Republicans joining most Democrats on the panel in favor of the measure.
Last year, Colorado expanded casino hours, raised maximum-bet limits and permitted roulette and craps, while Missouri eliminated a $500 loss limit at riverboat casinos. Delaware and Pennsylvania have weighed proposals to allow the conversion of slots parlors into full-service casinos, making further inroads into the eroding Atlantic City gambling industry.
Opponents, who only four years ago, when Congress was controlled by the Republicans, secured a law that banned the use of credit and debit cards to pay online casinos, said they were aghast. ''People sometimes resort to drastic things when they are strapped for cash,'' said Representative Robert W. Goodlatte, Republican of Virginia, who called the new proposals ''unfathomable.''
Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who leads the Financial Services Committee, has been the legislation's champion.
''Some adults will spend their money foolishly, but it is not the purpose of the federal government to prevent them legally from doing it,'' Mr. Frank said.
The committee's top Republican, Representative Spencer Bachus of Alabama, noting the passage of far-reaching changes in financial regulation this month, said that ''after all the talk last year about shutting down casinos on Wall Street,'' he was incredulous that members would vote to ''open casinos in every home and every bedroom and every dorm room, and on every iPhone, every BlackBerry, every laptop.''
Mr. Bachus said lobbyists had spent ''tens of millions'' to overturn the 2006 law. ''They've had quite a bit of success in turning votes,'' he said.
Supporters of legalization said fiscal considerations played a role in their thinking. ''I was looking for the money,'' Representative Jim McDermott, Democrat of Washington, said in an interview. He sponsored the companion measure to allow taxation of Internet gambling; he wants to dedicate the money to education.
Representative Brad Sherman, Democrat of California, said in an interview that the money was an attractive source of financing for other programs. ''We will not pass an Internet gaming bill,'' Mr. Sherman predicted. ''We will pass a bill to do something very important, funded by Internet gaming.''
He added, ''Forty-two billion dollars over 10 years has an effect.''
The legal status of online gambling has long been murky. The Justice Department asserts that the Wire Act of 1961 prohibits it, but prosecutors have largely left individual gamblers alone.
To crack down on the activity, a 2006 law -- inserted at the last minute into an unrelated bill in one of Congress's last actions before Democrats took control -- banned financial institutions from transmitting payments to and from gambling operators.
In the same year, the authorities arrested David Carruthers, a British online-gambling executive, as he changed flights at a Texas airport. He was sentenced to 33 months in prison for racketeering. Last year, the authorities ordered four banks to freeze the accounts of online payment processors that owed money to some 27,000 people who had used offshore poker sites.
But the enforcement actions have barely put a dent in the industry, experts say. Gamblers have used online payment processors, phone-based deposits and prepaid credit cards to circumvent the ban. By some estimates, American online gambling exceeds $6 billion a year.
''Today, any American with a broadband connection and a checking account can engage in any form of Internet gambling from any state,'' Annie Duke, a professional poker player, testified in May on behalf of the Poker Players Alliance, which hired a former Republican senator from New York, Alfonse M. D'Amato, to lobby for the bill.
Michael Brodsky, executive chairman of YouBet.com, an online site for parimutuel horse racing, said, ''As with Prohibition, illegal online gambling is thriving as an underground economy.''
Banks and credit unions said the 2006 law was poorly drafted -- so much so that the Obama administration delayed, to June 1 of this year, the deadline for banks to comply with the law, to address concerns about its enforceability.
In 1999, the National Gambling Impact Study Commission urged the prohibition of Internet gambling. Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. has said he would not support efforts to legalize online gambling, a view shared by most state attorneys general.
''Because Internet gambling is essentially borderless activity, from a money-laundering and terrorism-financing perspective, it creates a regulatory and enforcement quagmire,'' said James F. Dowling, a former special agent with the Internal Revenue Service.
And Mr. Bachus released a November letter from the F.B.I. in which Shawn Henry, the assistant director of the cyber division, said it would be difficult for companies to verify the age and location of their customers.
The bill contains measures intended to protect minors and combat compulsive addiction. It would allow states and Indian tribes to ''opt out,'' so players from those states and reservations would not be able to make online bets. But those governments would have a potentially lucrative incentive to allow the activity since they could then collect taxes from Internet casinos.
Before voting, the committee approved amendments to delegate enforcement duties to states and tribes, continue a ban on betting on sporting events, ban marketing aimed at children, and prohibit companies that violated the 2006 ban from obtaining licenses.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Congress banned Internet gambling in 2006, but is rethinking its stand. Supporters say the shift could yield billions in taxes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOBY MELVILLE/REUTERS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POKER (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CASINOS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); SECURE ONLINE TRANSACTIONS (77%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); APPROVALS (72%); NATIVE AMERICANS (68%); CREDIT UNIONS (68%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%); DEBIT CARDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%)

PERSON: BOB GOODLATTE (58%); SPENCER BACHUS (58%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); BOB MENENDEZ (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) DELAWARE, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



718 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; UP CLOSE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Yoga's Serious. Except When It's Not.

BYLINE: By MARY BILLARD

 BODY:
IN mid-July, while the oil slick in the Gulf and the Goldman Sachs settlement were dominating the news, a blog named YogaDork had a worldwide exclusive.
''Lady Gaga Takes Private Yoga Class in Cleveland,'' the post read, offering a breathless account of Lady Gaga's drop-in yoga session while touring in Ohio, along with a cellphone photo of the pop superstar, in dark sunglasses and blue bandana, hugging Sandy Gross, the awestruck instructor.
Within moments, the news was reposted on hundreds of Twitter messages, and posted on news sites as different as NPR and indiatimes.com. While it may not have been a scoop on the magnitude of, say, the guest list at Chelsea Clinton's wedding, it was a definite coup for YogaDork, a blog that chronicles the often insular world of those practicing their sun salutations.
A kind of Gawker.com for yogis, the blog tiptoes the line where yoga intersects with pop culture. Subjects include the latest celebrity sightings (Jessica Biel and Bethenny Frankel), controversies (whether there should be hands-on adjustments in class) and eye-rollings (the relentless product tie-ins for the film ''Eat, Pray, Love''). 
While the writer of YogaDork cuts an irreverent figure online -- chiding tabloid photographers who stalk yoga studios as ''yogarazzi,'' and buyers of pricey Lululemon apparel as ''lululemmings'' -- the author remains a mystery in real life, preferring to skewer the fast-growing $5.7 billion-a-year industry through the veil of anonymity.
But recently YogaDork agreed to shed some of that mystery, by agreeing to meet a reporter -- a dinner at a Belgian restaurant was arranged -- and provide a real name. Another concession: photographs permitted, but only if no face was shown.
So on a hot Wednesday a couple of weeks ago, the blogger arrived, wearing a plaid shirt and glasses and schlepping several bags, but no visible yoga mat.
''I've always been a shy person,'' the YogaDork said. ''I'm not the life of the party. I'm the one who stands in the corner and observes.''
YogaDork is not male, as many of the blog's followers have suspected, nor from California, also a frequent assumption. Her name (drum roll, please) is Jennilyn Carson, a Jersey girl who graduated from New York University and now lives in East Harlem. She teaches yoga, of course, but also works as an assistant in a psychotherapist's office. She is 28. Long pause. ''And a half.'' Another pause. ''Let's not talk about that.''
Her complexion is flawless, the glasses are cool, the plaid shirt is cute and fitted, and she has undorklike social skills. She is in a long-term relationship with Lane Brown, who blogs under his own name for Vulture, the culture blog on New York magazine's Web site.
But is Ms. Carson a dork? Yes, she explains, between bites of a very plain green salad (she is a vegan). In her definition, a dork is someone who is curious about every arcane and mundane aspect of a subject some may think isn't exactly cool.
''On the site, it is like all yoga, all day, every day, yoga news, 24 hours a day,'' she said, ''and I am really interested in it and everything about it.''
The blog adheres to the adage that many a great truth is spoken in jest, and semi-serious issues are wrapped in a playful guise. One recurrent theme is the potentially high cost of practicing yoga, covered under the Recession Yoga tag. YogaDork tackles the high cost of teacher training (''$4,000? We're not kidding! At that rate we're going to have to hold out for the Wii version'') and questions whether the teachers being churned out can earn a living: ''Climbing the Ladder of Yogapreneurship (Can You Earn a Living Teaching Yoga?)''
There has been her dogged reporting on whether yoga instructors should be licensed, a proposal in some states that many owners of small studios oppose, saying the paperwork and licensing fees would be too costly. On her blog, Ms. Carson wrote that ''Licensing issues have got many yoga studios across the country chanting obscenities.''
Ms. Carson registered the domain in 2008, but she did not blog regularly until last year. There are now about 50,000 to 60,000 page views a month (20,000 unique page views), a handful of advertisers, YogaDork T-shirts and currently about 5,200 Twitter followers: Ms. Carson is an active Twitter user with some 6,500 messages. And the #yogadork hashtag was become a popular way for self-identified yoga dorks to interact with one another, both online and in-person. A recent example from a Twitter user named Miss O.M.: ''Part of me (the brain part) freaks out when teeny tiny Tinkerbell yoga teacher offers to turn my prasarita into handstand. #yogadork''
For the most part, mainstream yoga media have been informative, straightforward and serious. After all, enough people make fun of yoga. YogaDork is part of a new wave of yogis who find humor in all those utkatasanas and parivrtta parsvakonasanas.
Among them, Neal Pollack writes a blog (nealpollack.com) subtitled ''The Hot Jew of the Yoga Generation.'' He has a book coming out in August, ''Stretch: The Unlikely Making of a Yoga Dude'' (HarperCollins). Erica Rodefer, a former online editor for Yoga Journal, writes as a ''spoiled yogi'' (spoiledyogi.blogspot.com). ''Enlighten Up!'' a documentary made by Kate Churchill, a yoga devotee who followed a skeptic's journey through yoga, played in theaters last year.
Sometimes, however, YogaDork readers aren't mollified by the humorous tone and cut right to the debate. ''People say, 'Here you go again! YogaDork is causing problems,' when I just want to start a conversation,'' Ms. Carson said.
Choosing to be anonymous grew out of the blog's collective voice, natural shyness and, Ms. Carson admitted, the shelter anonymity offers to freely speak about an event or a company (''not that I slam anyone'') practicing yoga's credo of nonjudgment. Revealing her name, if not her face, she said, is the next step in attempting to grow YogaDork's readership and to be of service to yoga practitioners by being a cheerleader for yoga nonprofits and reporting on such issues as teacher licensing.
Ideally, Ms. Carson would like to be an editor of her blog, with other contributors posting regularly. Reaching more people is good for yoga, she said, citing a recent post on male yogaphobia designed to debunk fears and make yoga accessible.
Debunked? Men's comments included everything from fear of flatulence in class to embarrassment about sitting on pastel mats. Goal achieved.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AND BREATHE: Jennilyn Carson, above, writes YogaDork, a blog that informs but also pokes fun at its subject. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: YOGA (93%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); WRITERS (87%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (78%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (76%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (76%); POP & ROCK (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (69%); RESTAURANTS (66%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); LULULEMON ATHLETICA INC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); LULU (NASDAQ) (54%); LLL (TSX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (54%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (54%); NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (88%) OHIO, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



719 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Amid the Roar Of the M7 Bus, A Little Mozart

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
On a narrow 0.051-acre patch of Manhattan on Wednesday afternoon, Maury Tannenbaum leaned back in his chair.
The brakes on the M11 bus to his left squealed. Cabbies honked to his right. Construction vehicles rumbled by. But Mr. Tannenbaum, 73, is a retired surgeon who grew up in the Bronx, which is another way of saying he has learned a thing or two about drowning out distraction and focusing on what matters.He sat in the shade of London Plane trees in a 138-year-old park off Broadway, listening to a classical guitarist from Japan play songs written in Spain to a small crowd of New Yorkers and tourists that included an unemployed librarian from Queens, a West African newspaper vendor, tattooed construction workers, bearded homeless men and a businesswoman wearing a pearl necklace. His wife, Gloria, sat next to him as the bronze bust of Richard Tucker, the Brooklyn-born opera star for whom the park is named, looked on - a great tenor, setting the tenor.
''You're outside,'' Mr. Tannenbaum said. ''You got a breeze. It's just a New York thing. I don't know what he's playing, but it's very relaxing.'' 
Richard Tucker Square is not a square at all, but a triangle, at one of the busiest intersections in Manhattan, Broadway and 66th Street, across from Alice Tully Hall at Lincoln Center. Every Wednesday this summer, starting July 7 and ending Sept. 1, free concerts are held at the park from noon to 2 p.m.
The performance on Wednesday - there is no stage, so the musicians sit in front of planters in the middle of the park - was one of those New York moments that people often take for granted. About 100 men, women and children of different ages, races and classes, thrown together by chance, fate and the local business improvement district, listening to the pleasant strains of violins while buses and taxicabs roared past and a multitude of shoppers, office workers and pedestrians zigged and zagged around a lunchtime crowd that had the audacity, maybe even the wisdom, to sit in the middle of one of the smallest parks in Manhattan and enjoy some music on a summer's day.
For the musicians, it was a kind of Battle of the Bands: Mozart's Duo-Sonata versus the City of New York and all its noises, particularly those supplied by the M20, M7 and M11 buses. Shogo Kubo, the Japanese classical guitarist, did not seem bothered by the traffic and bustle around him. He and the other performers - the violin duo of Luellen Abdoo and Jim Graseck, as well as the Hopkins Entertainment Group, a string quartet - regularly play in the subway and train system as part of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's Arts for Transit program.
''I use a big amp,'' Mr. Kubo explained.
Some of those sitting at the tables seemed more interested in the seats than the free music. A nurse talked on her cellphone. A man in a Lincoln Center uniform appeared to be praying, his head bowed, his hands clasped together. He was not praying, after all, but blissfully sleeping, as a borough of 1.6 million people and their dogs charged past him.
In between sets, Angela Botta, a yoga instructor with YogaWorks, had the audience do stretches. Abdalah Diallo, 55, the West African newspaper vendor who has worked the corner of Broadway and 66th Street for three years, followed along, a sign, perhaps, that those who supply the news of the day are often as stressed as those who receive it.
''It's become a neighborhood piazza,'' said Monica Blum, president of the nonprofit Lincoln Square Business Improvement District, which organizes the nine-week concert series, now in its third year. ''It creates a sense of community, a sense of neighborhood. Even in the midst of congestion and the noise, people seem to just love this. I'd like to have a barbecue, but I haven't managed to pull that off yet.''
There were those who had heard of the concerts and went out of their way to attend one, and there were those who happened to stumble upon the scene. Quintis Pinder, 41, the librarian from Queens, sat at a table listening to the violin duo, one sneaker on and one sneaker off. He had tried to get a ticket to see President Obama, who was in New York on Wednesday to tape an appearance on ABC's ''The View.'' Mr. Pinder was turned away, and he ended up going on a walk and discovering the music, the shade and the yoga at Richard Tucker Square.
Mr. Pinder had worked for the New York Public Library for 20 years, most recently as a librarian at the Andrew Heiskell Braille and Talking Book Library, until he lost his job two weeks ago. He is looking for another job at a public or private library and has applied for unemployment benefits.
He wanted to see the president. He wished he were working. But he sat a long while, staring in the direction of the bust of Mr. Tucker. Then he slipped on his right sneaker and joined the masses on Broadway.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At Richard Tucker Square, the violinist Jim Graseck, above, warmed up while Angela Botta gave yoga lessons to the audience. On Wednesday afternoon, about 100 people stopped by the park, one of the smallest in Manhattan, where free concerts are held weekly throughout the summer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); OPERA (88%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); CHILDREN (75%); SONG WRITING (70%); HOMELESSNESS (69%); FINE JEWELRY (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (79%); SPAIN (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



720 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: An Arizona Morgue Grows Crowded

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
TUCSON -- Dr. Bruce Parks unzips a white body bag on a steel gurney and gingerly lifts out a human skull and mandible, turning them over in his hands and examining the few teeth still in their sockets.
The body bag, coated with dust, also contains a broken pelvis, a femur and a few smaller bones found in the desert in June, along with a pair of white sneakers.
''These are people who are probably not going to be identified,'' said Dr. Parks, the chief medical examiner for Pima County. There are eight other body bags crowded on the gurney.
The Pima County morgue is running out of space as the number of Latin American immigrants found dead in the deserts around Tucson has soared this year during a heat wave. 
The rise in deaths comes as Arizona is embroiled in a bitter legal battle over a new law intended to discourage illegal immigrants from settling here by making it a state crime for them to live or seek work.
But the law has not kept the immigrants from trying to cross hundreds of miles of desert on foot in record-breaking heat. The bodies of 57 border crossers have been brought in during July so far, putting it on track to be the worst month for such deaths in the last five years.
Since the first of the year, more than 150 people suspected of being illegal immigrants have been found dead, well above the 107 discovered during the same period in each of the last two years. The sudden spike in deaths has overwhelmed investigators and pathologists at the Pima County Medical Examiner's Office. Two weeks ago, Dr. Parks was forced to bring in a refrigerated truck to store the remains of two dozen people because the building's two units were full.
''We can store about 200 full-sized individuals, but we have over 300 people here now, and most of those are border crossers,'' Dr. Parks said. ''We keep hoping we have seen the worst of this, of these migration deaths. Yet we still see a lot of remains.''
The increase in deaths has happened despite many signs that the number of immigrants crossing the border illegally has dropped in recent years. The number of people caught trying to sneak across the frontier without a visa has fallen in each of the last five years and stands at about half of the record 616,000 arrested in 2000.
Not only has the economic downturn in the United States eliminated many of the jobs that used to lure immigrants, human rights groups say, but also the federal government has stepped up efforts to stop the underground railroad of migrants, building mammoth fences in several border towns and flooding the region with hundreds of new Border Patrol agents equipped with high-tech surveillance tools.
These tougher enforcement measures have pushed smugglers and illegal immigrants to take their chances on isolated trails through the deserts and mountains of southern Arizona, where they must sometimes walk for three or four days before reaching a road.
''As we gain more control, the smugglers are taking people out to even more remote areas,'' said Omar Candelaria, the special operations supervisor for the Border Patrol's Tucson Sector. ''They have further to walk and they are less prepared for the journey, and they don't make it.''
Mr. Candelaria said the surge in discoveries of bodies this year might also owe something to increased patrols. He noted that some of the remains found this year belong to people who died in previous years. But Dr. Parks said that could not account for the entire increase this year. Indeed, the majority of bodies brought in during July, Dr. Parks said, were dead less than a week.
Human rights groups say it is the government's sustained crackdown on human smuggling that has led to more deaths.
''The more that you militarize the border, the more you push the migrant flows into more isolated and desolate areas, and people hurt or injured are just left behind,'' said Kat Rodriguez, a spokeswoman for the Coalicion de Derechos Humanos in Tucson.
At the medical examiner's office in Tucson, Dr. Park's team of five investigators, six pathologists and one forensic anthropologist face an enormous backlog of more than 150 unidentified remains, with one case going back as far as 2003.
Every day, they labor to match remains with descriptions provided by people who have called their office to report a missing relative, or with reports collected by human rights groups and by Mexican authorities.
Since 2000, Dr. Park's office has handled more than 1,700 border-crossing cases, and officials here have managed to confirm the identities of about 1,050 of the remains.
Investigators sift through the things the dead carried for clues -- Mexican voter registration cards, telephone numbers scrawled on scraps of paper, jewelry, rosaries, family photographs. Often there is precious little to go on.
''We had one gentleman who came in as bones, but around his wrist there was a bracelet from a Mexican Hospital that had his picture,'' said David Valenzuela, one of the investigators.
If no documents are found, the task becomes harder. Many of the deceased immigrants were too poor to have visited doctors or dentists on a regular basis, so dental or medical records may not exist. Sometimes, a family photograph of the deceased smiling widely is all investigators have to document dental work.
On a recent morning, Bruce Anderson, the forensic anthropologist in the office, was examining the skeleton of an adolescent boy, whose age was somewhere between 14 and 17. His mummified remains were found on the Tohono O'odham Indian Reservation west of Tucson on July 15. The only lead to his identity was a missing front tooth and the neighboring teeth crowded together in the space.
Dr. Anderson called the Coalicion de Derechos Humanos, who had a report of a 13-year-old who had been reported missing this year after crossing the border near Sonoyta, Mexico.
The charity immediately contacted the boy's family to see if he had lost a permanent tooth. Dr. Anderson was still waiting for a reply.
The process takes time, and remains keep piling up. On Monday, Mr. Anderson faced a backlog of 14 new skeletons, in addition to the 40 active cases he is investigating, he said. ''One person can't keep up with this load,'' he said.
The pathologists are also under strain. One day last week, Dr. Cynthia Porterfield did five autopsies, on remains of border crossers who died in the desert.
Dr. Porterfield was able to identify one: Jesse Palma Valenzuela, 30, who died on July 12. Three of his travel companions had tried to carry his body back to Mexico but became tired and abandoned him, wrapped in a blanket and positioned off the ground in a tree to keep animals from eating him. Then they crossed back into Mexico and notified the Border Patrol.
Agents discovered Mr. Valenzuela's body on July 17, right where his friends said it would be, about two-and-a-half miles east of Lukeville, Ariz., not far from the border. Though decomposed, he was still recognizable.
''He's got quite a few tattoos,'' Dr. Porterfield said. ''It is how the family ID'd him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Bruce Parks, the chief medical examiner for Pima County, looked over an unidentified skull. At left, personal belongings of border crossers found in the desert. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); BONE FRACTURES (78%); DEATHS (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); DESERTS (71%); PATHOLOGY (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); WEATHER (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (50%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (93%) ARIZONA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



721 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: How Do You Pack a Stadium? Provide Video Better Than TV

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT

 BODY:
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -- How do you keep football fans as regular visitors to stadiums when the television coverage of every play is so good?
For the Giants and the Jets, the answer, perhaps surprisingly, is more and better video than people can get at home. This season, the New Meadowlands Stadium will offer fans free smart-phone applications that they can glance at to see video replays, updated statistics and live video from other games -- and that will work only inside a stadium.
Over the next few years, stadium officials say, the applications will provide fans with statistics on the speed of players and the ball, and fantasy games that will allow them to pick players and compete against other fans.
A real-life game no longer seems to be enough. 
In recent years, television coverage of the National Football League has become so rich and detailed that teams and stadiums have no choice but to respond with their own technology plays. Last spring the league's commissioner, Roger Goodell, said the experience for fans in stadiums needed to be elevated to compete with television broadcasts, to keep fans engaged -- and to keep them buying tickets -- in a challenging economic climate.
To do that, stadium officials here have taken steps few other N.F.L. stadiums have. About $100 million has been spent on the stadium's technology, and a former television production executive was hired to oversee the fan experience to offer more than fans can get sitting at home on their couches in front of their high-definition television sets.
''It's become an arms race,'' said Peter Brickman, the former television production executive who was hired as the chief technology officer for the New Meadowlands Stadium last year to channel his knowledge about television into the experience in the stadium.
Mr. Brickman, who worked for the N.F.L. for several years enhancing its television productions, pioneered the popular ''Red Zone'' alerts that tell fans watching games on ''NFL Sunday Ticket'' on DirecTV about other games in which a team is about to score.
It is unclear how the smart-phone applications will change the atmosphere of games. Fans praised Cowboys Stadium, which opened in Arlington, Tex., last year, for its twin video boards that are suspended over the field and stretch nearly from one 20-yard line to the other so that fans can watch the action live both on the field and on a big screen.
The four video screens at the New Meadowlands Stadium are smaller, but officials say the stadium's innovations go further than at Cowboys Stadium or any other in the country.
''I think I'm not like most people who want someone blabbering in their ear and constant stats and information,'' said Jeff Laible, 63, a football and baseball fan from Manhattan who attended a game at Giants Stadium. ''I just want the ambience, to watch the players and feel the crowd. I would much rather have the feel of the game brought into the home, not the other way around.''
But Matthew Stone, 32, a San Francisco 49ers season-ticket holder from Oakdale, Calif., said there were many times in recent years when he wished he had been in front of a television when he was at a game.
''You want to know about injuries or fights on the field or hear from one of your favorite commentators,'' Mr. Stone said. ''It's great to be at the game, but you miss things. I think an application is a great idea.''
For those fans who do not have smart phones, 2,200 televisions with 48,000 square feet of screens have been installed in and around the stadium, the most of any N.F.L. stadium. The applications and stadium video screens will access video feeds that can be used only in the stadium because of the N.F.L.'s television agreements. If the fan leaves, the application will no longer work and will direct fans to the teams' Web sites, which will offer less.
Mr. Brickman said he thought 7,000 to 10,000 fans would use the application in the first season at the stadium. To accommodate them, 500 wireless antennas have been installed in the stadium.
''We want to keep things leading edge but not bleeding edge,'' Mr. Brickman said, adding that different parts of the application would be slowly rolled out during the stadium's first season. A few other N.F.L. stadiums hope to introduce some of the technology this season, too.
''The worst thing for me is a Steve Jobs moment,'' he said, referring to a news conference in June at which Mr. Jobs could not use the Internet on an iPhone because the wireless network was overloaded.
The introduction of the smart-phone applications comes as teams confront an increasingly difficult environment to attract fans to stadiums. The images of N.F.L. players blocking and tackling on high-definition television have become increasingly life-like at the same time that the price of attending a game in person is higher than ever.
The Jets and the Giants have attached personal seat licenses for a majority of the seats -- fees from $1,000 to $20,000 that fans must pay before they are allowed to buy their tickets, which cost $90 to $700 a game.
The Giants have sold nearly all their personal seat licenses, and the Jets have cut the prices of theirs but have still not sold them all.
Across the N.F.L., attendance is down a little more than 3 percent from its height in 2007, but television ratings have continued to climb. The average regular-season N.F.L. game was seen by 16.6 million viewers last season -- the most since 1990 -- and by two million more viewers than in the 2008 season, according to figures from Nielsen.
The technology behind the applications, which is powered by Cisco and Verizon, has other benefits. The applications will alert fans to which concession stands have the shortest lines and provide traffic updates.
Security officials will have special bracelets that parents can have placed on their children. In the event that a child is lost, the stadium's video security system can immediately locate the child on a television screen.
''Teams shouldn't have an imbalance in the television experience and the stadium experience,'' said Vince Gennaro, who is a marketing consultant to several sports teams and teaches sports management at Columbia University's School of Continuing Education. ''Once you raise the bar on one, you have to raise the bar on the other. I think it's really important now that high definition and DirecTV have innovated, that teams compete essentially with themselves and bring that experience to the seat.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The New Meadowlands Stadium uses new video technology. (A1)
 Above, inside the new stadium's video replay room. Peter Brickman, a former TV production executive, oversees the stadium's technology. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (95%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); SPORTS FANS (91%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); TICKET SALES (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (76%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK JETS (84%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



722 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: Energy Subsidies -- Good and Bad

 BODY:
Congress must soon decide whether to extend federal tax subsidies for renewable energy that expire at the end of the year. The subsidies for wind, solar and geothermal energy are necessary to give these energy sources the help they need to compete with oil, coal and natural gas. While it renews those subsidies, Congress should end tax breaks for corn ethanol, which can stand on its own and is of dubious environmental benefit. 
Tax credits for wind, solar and geothermal power have been around for decades. When the economy tanked and tax credits became less desirable to investors, the Obama administration converted them to a direct federal grant as part of the 2009 stimulus program. About $4.5 billion has since helped jump-start hundreds of projects -- mostly wind and solar -- and created thousands of new jobs.
Senator Maria Cantwell, Democrat of Washington, has drafted an amendment to extend the grant program for two years. The Senate should approve it. To move forward, these industries need to be able to depend on continued investment.
Ethanol, which in this country is made almost exclusively from corn, has been subsidized since the early 1970s, partly because it increases octane levels while helping to reduce certain pollutants, most notably carbon monoxide. Refineries that blend the ethanol with gasoline now get a 45 cent tax break for every gallon they produce. That break is no longer needed.
A 2007 energy law requires the country to produce steadily increasing volumes of corn ethanol -- 11 billion gallons last year, rising to 15 billion gallons in 2014 -- which guarantees a robust market for farmers and producers of ethanol. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the price tag last year for the ethanol tax break was about $6 billion.
This money mainly benefits refiners and big farmers, and could be better spent elsewhere -- perhaps in developing more advanced forms of ethanol from grasses, scrub trees and plant wastes. Corn ethanol can actually increase greenhouse gases if grasslands or forests are ploughed for crop production.
A bipartisan group of senators, have rightly begun to question the subsidy. So have many members of the House Ways and Means Committee. Even the powerful ethanol lobby is showing signs of cracking, with Growth Energy, an ethanol trade group, suggesting a four-year phaseout. It would be far better to end it now. There are many more useful ways to spend taxpayer dollars.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (92%); TAX LAW (91%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BIOFUELS (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); WIND ENERGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ETHANOL (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (87%); LOBBYING (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); FUEL TAX (78%); CROP PRODUCTION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); AGRICULTURE (76%); JOB CREATION (73%); CARBON MONOXIDE (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%)

PERSON: MARIA CANTWELL (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



723 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Fed's Report Shows Slowing Growth

BYLINE: By SUSANNA G. KIM

 BODY:
While the economy has continued to pick up, growth has become uneven in recent weeks, the Federal Reserve said Wednesday in its latest regional report. In some regions, the Fed said, economic activity had started to slow.
The report, known as the beige book, described an economy struggling under the weight of a depressed real estate market, high unemployment and wary consumers.
The manufacturing sector especially appears to be losing steam. The Federal Reserve regional report, said manufacturing activity in most of the 12 districts experienced some growth since the last report in early June. 
But the pace of activity ''slowed'' or ''leveled off'' in half of them, including Cleveland and Chicago. In both cities, automobile manufacturing grew, while steel manufacturing declined.
Business contacts in Atlanta and Chicago said economic activity slowed in June and July, with significant worries in Atlanta related to the Gulf Coast oil spill.
Analysts say the book offers a qualitative, rather than quantitative, general overview of various sectors and regions across the country.
The report said the retailing and transportation service sectors showed signs of solid growth. Several districts reported that apparel, food and other necessities were strong sellers. However, consumer spending on big-ticket items was weak, reflected in the decline in auto sales in New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago and San Francisco. The report also said consumers remained price conscious as they continued to reduce their debts.
Almost all districts reported that they had ''sluggish'' housing markets as a result of the April expiration of the government's homebuyer credit. Commercial and residential construction activity was weak in almost all districts. Cleveland, in particular, said it did not expect an improvement in new home construction this year.
Robert F. Baur, chief global economist for Principal Global Investors said the report affirmed that the economic recovery was continuing, albeit at a slower pace.
''It may be enough to suggest to the Federal Reserve that they would revise their next economic projections downward slightly,'' Mr. Baur said.
The report said labor market conditions ''improved gradually'' in New York, Chicago, Minneapolis, Richmond, and Atlanta, but San Francisco reported high levels of unemployment. California was the state with the third-highest unemployment rate in June at 12.3 percent seasonally adjusted, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Nevada had the highest rate, with 14.2 percent, followed by Michigan at 13.2 percent.
James F. O'Sullivan, chief economist with MF Global acknowledged that he was skeptical of the report's ability to provide information of future movements in the economy.
''It's limited in how much new information it provides,'' Mr. O'Sullivan said.
Before the beige book was published, the Commerce Department reported Wednesday that demand for durable goods from American factories fell 1 percent in June. Excluding the volatile transportation sector, new orders decreased 0.6 percent.
The report comes on the heels of Tuesday's latest take on consumer confidence, which dropped sharply in July. With many consumers still reluctant to spend because of worries about the job market, manufacturing has helped power economic growth in the last few months.
Brian J. Fabbri, chief economist with BNP Paribas said the durable goods report does not fuel concern for a double-dip recession, but the economy was growing more slowly than it was in the first half of the year.
''The manufacturing sector is still just a small part of our economy, but manufacturing statistics can be the most sensitive statistics we have,'' Mr. Fabbri said. ''The details tend to tell us if the economy is going to slow down or speed up.''
Wednesday's broad-based decline in durable goods was the second consecutive monthly decrease. Durable goods dropped 0.8 percent in May. Still, orders in June were 16.5 percent higher than in June 2009 when the recovery had not yet taken hold.
Transportation equipment, down four of the last five months, fell 2.4 percent, mostly because of a sharp decline in orders for commercial aircraft and parts. Orders for commercial aircraft were down more than 25 percent.
Most major industries, including machinery, primary metals and electronics, reported declines. Appliances, electrical equipment and motor vehicles reported increases.
Inventories of manufactured goods rose for a sixth consecutive month in June, increasing 0.9 percent after a 1.1 percent jump in May. Transportation equipment, also up six consecutive months, had the largest increase, at 1.1 percent.
Mr. Fabbri said the large increase in inventories was not necessarily a good sign.
''If inventories go up, it could mean businesses think sales will be strong in the future,'' Mr. Fabbri said. ''Or, they end up with more inventories because sales are down.''
Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist with MFR, said the report was not as foreboding as it might suggest. He said removing what he called the ''erratic,'' big ticket categories of civilian aircraft and military capital goods provides a 0.3 percent increase in June orders for core durable goods.
However, he said that he expected a slowdown in manufacturing output growth for the remainder of the year. In the first half of the year, output in the manufacturing sector grew at an annualized rate of about 6.4 percent, according to the Federal Reserve. If more disappointing news emerges, Mr. Shapiro said there would be considerable deceleration for the second half.
''The question is how much of a slowdown we will see,'' he said.
Other analysts stressed that a slowdown was somewhat expected because economic growth in the first half of the year filled the void of the slowdown of last year.
''You can't keep postponing spending on equipment with pent-up replacement pressures and improving profits,'' said Kenneth J. Kremar of IHS Global Insight.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Orders for goods like stoves were still higher than last June. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN ZICH/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHART: Durable Goods Orders: Manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); DURABLE GOODS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (69%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (69%); HOUSING STARTS (69%); STATISTICS (66%); OIL SPILLS (53%)

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%)

PERSON: WILLIAM P SULLIVAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



724 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Sizing Up Obama, In Real Life

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Edison, N.J.
At the Tastee Sub Shop, where President Obama stopped on Wednesday for the half-size Super Sub to go ($4.41) and a conversation about small businesses, you get the feeling they have things down to a science. A pickle is 84 cents for a whole one, 47 for a half; cookies are 57 cents, same as the 10-ounce coffee; you get a 5 percent discount for paying cash; customers snake out the door for the 14 sub varieties, but the line never stops moving. It's hard to make a cracker-box sub shop an institution, but they seem to have succeeded.
Reducing politics to a science or anything approaching it is a good deal harder, hence the pro-and-con atmospherics -- Tea Party supporters in one cluster, Obama supporters in another during the populist portion of the president's visit to the region before decidedly less-modest stops in New York. 
Still, this township -- once known for the man it is named after, who helped invent the modern world; now a quintessentially Jersey jumble of ethnicities, traffic jams and sprawl -- isn't a bad place to sniff around for clues. And in an area where Mr. Obama swamped John McCain in 2008, 22,409 votes to 14,986, you could find hints about where the magic went and how much is left.
One is how different most people in real life sound from the opinion-mongers on cable TV and the Internet message boards, the nonstop buzz of politics as crowd-sourced contact sport. So if the rule of the modern conversation is that everyone has to have a point of view, it's worth remembering how many people don't have one that can be reduced to a bumper sticker.
Down the street at Key Auto Parts, John Slover, whose family has owned the business since he was 11, strikes some of the notes from the Tea Party hymnal, but with weariness, not anger or any inclination to find an easy villain. ''They're not giving the middle class a chance to live,'' he said, as the business was closing up on Tuesday. ''Everything's going up except our pay. They keep saying the economy is getting better. I don't see it. I'm still making the same money I was 15 years ago. Probably less.''
But while he didn't vote for Mr. Obama and gives him a C as president, he gives his predecessor a D and has no interest in viewing politics as a referendum on Mr. Obama.
''I don't think it's his fault,'' he said. ''I think he's trying to do the right thing. One man can't straighten out the whole world or the whole country. He's got to have the backing of others behind him.''
Conversely, for the most Obama averse, the language is so consistently familiar, you assume that if you just turn on talk radio or Fox News, someone will probably be saying exactly the same thing.
''I think what we need to do is to stop going into this socialistic society, which is what I think his goal is,'' said Ron Mieczkowski, an Edison police lieutenant, who says he is not a hardliner for either party and has grievances that are across the board -- immigration, the wars, taxes. ''Maybe he's not a true socialist, but his ideals and ideas are -- this kumbaya thing where everyone gets the same health care and the same benefits. And most of the health care is going to go to immigrants. Well, the country wasn't built that way.''
OF course, lots of the thoughts aren't about either the oversimplified euphoria of campaigning or the equally simple blowback, like the questions Barbara C. Roos of the Edison Chamber of Commerce has solicited from members. They're nuts-and-bolts questions about issues like tax incentives for small businesses, frozen credit, loss levels on tax form Schedule D's, the minutiae of policy buried under the babble.
And, if that Yes We Can euphoria of the election seems a lot more than two years ago, the fervent Obamaphiles are still out here -- without the daily megaphone of Fox and talk radio on the other side, but still there.
So Katie Albert, still aglow two years on, stopped into Richie's sports bar, where she worked the night Mr. Obama was elected, to watch his visit on Wednesday on TV. ''I love President Obama,'' said Ms. Albert, who works as a lab coordinator at Middlesex County College. ''I love him. It's the first time in my life I can see a president on television and feel he's speaking to me and understands me, a lower-middle-class single mother. I had faith that he could do great things if people gave him a chance, and I feel that way more than ever now.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); REFERENDUMS (65%); CROWDSOURCING (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



725 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: 1 Soldier Or 20 Schools?

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
The war in Afghanistan will consume more money this year alone than we spent on the Revolutionary War, the War of 1812, the Mexican-American War, the Civil War and the Spanish-American War -- combined.
A recent report from the Congressional Research Service finds that the war on terror, including Afghanistan and Iraq, has been, by far, the costliest war in American history aside from World War II. It adjusted costs of all previous wars for inflation.
Those historical comparisons should be a wake-up call to President Obama, underscoring how our military strategy is not only a mess -- as the recent leaked documents from Afghanistan suggested -- but also more broadly reflects a gross misallocation of resources. One legacy of the 9/11 attacks was a distortion of American policy: By the standards of history and cost-effectiveness, we are hugely overinvested in military tools and underinvested in education and diplomacy. 
It was reflexive for liberals to rail at President George W. Bush for jingoism. But it is President Obama who is now requesting 6.1 percent more in military spending than the peak of military spending under Mr. Bush. And it is Mr. Obama who has tripled the number of American troops in Afghanistan since he took office. (A bill providing $37 billion to continue financing America's two wars was approved by the House on Tuesday and is awaiting his signature.)
Under Mr. Obama, we are now spending more money on the military, after adjusting for inflation, than in the peak of the cold war, Vietnam War or Korean War. Our battle fleet is larger than the next 13 navies combined, according to Defense Secretary Robert Gates. The intelligence apparatus is so bloated that, according to The Washington Post, the number of people with ''top secret'' clearance is 1.5 times the population of the District of Columbia.
Meanwhile, a sobering report from the College Board says that the United States, which used to lead the world in the proportion of young people with college degrees, has dropped to 12th.
What's more, an unbalanced focus on weapons alone is often counterproductive, creating a nationalist backlash against foreign ''invaders.'' Over all, education has a rather better record than military power in neutralizing foreign extremism. And the trade-offs are staggering: For the cost of just one soldier in Afghanistan for one year, we could start about 20 schools there. Hawks retort that it's impossible to run schools in Afghanistan unless there are American troops to protect them. But that's incorrect.
CARE, a humanitarian organization, operates 300 schools in Afghanistan, and not one has been burned by the Taliban. Greg Mortenson, of ''Three Cups of Tea'' fame, has overseen the building of 145 schools in Afghanistan and Pakistan and operates dozens more in tents or rented buildings -- and he says that not one has been destroyed by the Taliban either.
Aid groups show that it is quite possible to run schools so long as there is respectful consultation with tribal elders and buy-in from them. And my hunch is that CARE and Mr. Mortenson are doing more to bring peace to Afghanistan than Mr. Obama's surge of troops.
The American military has been eagerly reading ''Three Cups of Tea'' but hasn't absorbed the central lesson: building schools is a better bet for peace than firing missiles (especially when one cruise missile costs about as much as building 11 schools).
Mr. Mortenson lamented to me that for the cost of just 246 soldiers posted for one year, America could pay for a higher education plan for all Afghanistan. That would help build an Afghan economy, civil society and future -- all for one-quarter of 1 percent of our military spending in Afghanistan this year.
The latest uproar over Pakistani hand-holding with the Afghan Taliban underscores that billions of dollars in U.S. military aid just doesn't buy the loyalty it used to. In contrast, education can actually transform a nation. That's one reason Bangladesh is calmer than Pakistan, Oman is less threatening than Yemen.
Paradoxically, the most eloquent advocate in government for balance in financing priorities has been Mr. Gates, the defense secretary. He has noted that the military has more people in its marching bands than the State Department has diplomats.
Faced with constant demands for more, Mr. Gates in May asked: ''Is it a dire threat that by 2020 the United States will have only 20 times more advanced stealth fighters than China?''
In the presidential campaign, Mr. Obama promised to invest in a global education fund. Since then, he seems to have forgotten the idea -- even though he is spending enough every five weeks in Afghanistan to ensure that practically every child on our planet gets a primary education.
We won our nation's independence for $2.4 billion in today's money, the Congressional Research Service report said. That was good value, considering that we now fritter the same amount every nine days in Afghanistan. Mr. Obama, isn't it time to rebalance our priorities?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); HISTORY (78%); TALIBAN (78%); COLD WAR (78%); NAVIES (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); TERRORISM (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); KOREAN WAR (73%); WORLD WAR II (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); LIBERALISM (68%); APPROVALS (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (61%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (58%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ROBERT M GATES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (92%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



726 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Corruption Helps Taliban Win Recruits, Envoy Says

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Rampant corruption in Afghanistan provides the Taliban with their No. 1 recruiting tool, the Obama administration's special representative to the region, Richard C. Holbrooke, said Wednesday. But he insisted that the United States was taking adequate precautions to cut down on the misuse of billions of dollars in American aid to the country.
Responding to deepening unease on Capitol Hill about where aid money is going, Mr. Holbrooke said recent reports of billions of dollars in cash being flown out of Kabul International Airport wrongly suggested that American civilian aid was being siphoned from Afghanistan. 
''We're not missing money,'' Mr. Holbrooke said at a hearing of the House subcommittee that oversees financing of the State Department and the United States Agency for International Development. The shortage of banks in Afghanistan, he said, means that Afghans use cash for most commercial transactions, which they then transfer, legally, in vast amounts to banks in Dubai.
Mr. Holbrooke acknowledged that some of the money probably came from illegal activities like drug trafficking. He said corruption was still endemic in Afghanistan, describing it as a ''malignancy'' that could destroy everything the United States was trying to achieve there. The Taliban, in their propaganda, highlight the corruption of local officials to lure people to the insurgency.
''If you read Taliban propaganda, which we study very carefully, they never mention the issue of women, girls in school, because that was their most losing issue,'' Mr. Holbrooke said. ''What they talk about is corruption, which is why we're here. That's their No. 1 recruiting tool.''
Fears about the misuse of aid has led the chairwoman of the subcommittee, Representative Nita M. Lowey, to hold up $3.9 billion in financing until the administration puts in place adequate safeguards to ensure that the money is not being squandered. The decision will not affect existing programs, she said, since there is money in the pipeline for this year and next.
Ms. Lowey, a Democrat from New York, expressed skepticism that the capital flight from Afghanistan did not include American aid money. ''At this moment, we don't know where that $3 billion came from,'' she said, referring to an estimate, cited by The Wall Street Journal, of how much has left the country.
A spokesman for Ms. Lowey, Matthew Dennis, said she would work with the administration to develop safeguards. Congress could restore civilian aid to its foreign assistance package after the August recess.
Mr. Holbrooke and Rajiv Shah, the administrator of the Agency for International Development, provided charts to show how the administration certified Afghan ministries, monitored programs and used third-party auditors to make sure aid was properly spent. Even so, Dr. Shah said, it is not easy to determine whether the aid is effective. For example, the United States has not measured the effect of agricultural aid on crop yields or the incomes of farmers.
The largely cash nature of the Afghan economy complicates efforts to crack down on corruption, Mr. Holbrooke said. Afghanistan has only 17 active banks, and barely 5 percent of Afghans have bank accounts.
Still, Mr. Holbrooke said, the anticorruption campaign has yielded some results. The Afghan government's major-crimes task force, he said, has 169 investigators working on 36 cases. One involved two people with both Afghan and American citizenship who were part of a $3 million kickback scheme on an $18 million road project. They were arrested in Afghanistan with the help of the Justice Department, brought to the United States, tried and sentenced to prison in Virginia.
''Is it enough? Of course not,'' he said. ''Circumstances and the history of the country make it difficult.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (92%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); AIRPORTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (52%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%)

PERSON: RICHARD HOLBROOKE (90%); NITA M LOWEY (78%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (70%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



727 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 2152 words

HEADLINE: After an Ugly Breakup: What They Did and What They Said They Did

 BODY:
The independent counsel's 54-page report released on Wednesday reads, in large part, like a how-not-to guide to government management.
Based on the sworn testimony of more than 30 witnesses, including Gov. David A. Paterson, and documentary evidence -- phone logs, travel calendars, court records -- from more than 40 sources, the report is comprehensive and filled with intriguing details, though it raises as many questions as it answers. Recounting telephone conversations among aides to Governor Paterson and top officials in the State Police, and with Sherr-una Booker, the woman whose ugly breakup with David W. Johnson, a Paterson aide, is at the center of the inquiry, it chronicles what the independent counsel, Judith S. Kaye, deemed ''errors in judgment.''
The footnoted report also exposes missteps, failures of memory, efforts among members of the Paterson administration to hide things from one another, instances in which they felt that they had been lied to or enlisted in questionable behavior, and what seem like some very strained rationalizations. Asked, for example, whether a statement his staff had prepared for Ms. Booker to give to the press was ''accurate or inaccurate,'' Governor Paterson responded, ''I would say it was neither.'' 
The report also shows that Mr. Paterson contacted Ms. Booker, even after referring the matter to the office of the attorney general for investigation, leaving a voice mail message that began, ''Sherri, this is David,'' and pleaded, ''Please help me.''
And throughout the nearly three months between Mr. Johnson's Oct. 31, 2009, dispute with Ms. Booker and the start of the investigation, Mr. Paterson displayed a lack of curiosity, never looking into whether there had been an arrest report or an order of protection in connection with the episode.
While Ms. Kaye, the former chief judge of New York State, finds ''no evidence'' of criminal wrongdoing by anyone other than Mr. Johnson -- whose fate is in the hands of local prosecutors -- she chastises the governor and others, and calls for some changes in State Police protocol.
Here is a guide to the major players in the investigation, their conduct and testimony, and Ms. Kaye's conclusions:
Conduct
NOV. 1, 2009 At the governor's apartment in Manhattan, Mr. Johnson told Mr. Paterson that he and Ms. Booker had had an acrimonious argument the night before, and that it had resulted in a 911 call. ''According to the governor, Johnson did not inform him of any physical dimension to the incident and did not appear to be concerned about any police follow-up action.''
''I think I may have asked him, 'Is anything coming of this?' and he didn't seem to think so,'' the governor testified. ''And I said, 'You know, if it does, you know, keep the office posted,' or something like that.''
JANUARY 2010 Mr. Johnson asked Deneane Brown, a state employee who had been in contact with Ms. Booker, to take Mr. Paterson lunch in Manhattan, and ''the governor told Brown that the incident with Johnson and Booker never should have happened.'' Ms. Brown said the governor told her he ''was going to deal with the situation himself,'' but Mr. Paterson testified that he ''never told Brown that he intended to 'handle' the situation.''
FEB. 4 Worried about rumors of a coming article in The New York Times, the governor spoke to an editor for more than 30 minutes, saying that he saw the dispute as ''just a bad breakup,'' and that there had been ''no incidents of violence, or police interacting, or -- uh, you know -- police reports.'' Mr. Paterson later testified that he meant there had been no arrests. The editor asked about an order of protection relating to the episode; in testimony, the governor said this was the first he had heard of such a thing (he said he later asked Mr. Johnson about the order and was told there was not one).
FEB. 16 The governor asked Ms. Brown to urge Ms. Booker to make a statement to reporters, and directed his press secretary to draft one. Mr. Paterson testified that he provided ''sort of neutral language'' saying the relationship had ''ended in an unfriendly way, but there's no current acrimony,'' and added that he was ''clearly looking out for myself.'' Ms. Brown was provided a draft statement that said, ''There was nothing acrimonious about our relationship or its ending.'' She testified that she had created a new e-mail account ''because she believed that the proposed statement was untrue and she was uncomfortable sending it.'' She added that Ms. Booker declined to issue the statement ''because she refused to say anything false.''
Asked about the statement, Mr. Paterson said, ''I would just say it was a statement designed to get the media off of my back.''
FEB. 17 Governor Paterson and Ms. Booker had a 40-minute phone conversation. Ms. Booker testified that the governor told her ''the story was 'going to blow over,' '' and that she told him, for the first time, the details of the original episode. The governor testified that he came away ''with the impression that, from Booker's perspective, it was a frightening experience.''
FEB. 17 Peter E. Kauffmann, the governor's director of communications, spoke to an official at the New York Police Department, and then read Mr. Paterson portions of the police report about the dispute and told him about the order of protection. ''Kauffmann testified that the governor then proceeded to explain to him that in a legal sense, an order of protection did not exist unless it had been served on Johnson,'' the report says. That day, the governor's office released a statement saying there was no evidence to ''substantiate any claims of violence committed by David Johnson.''
FEB. 24 The governor announced at 9:03 p.m. that he had referred the matter to the attorney general for investigation. At 9:40 p.m., he left a voice mail message for Ms. Booker asking for her help.
''They're trying to make it look like I pressured you into dropping the court case,'' he said, referring to The Times. ''I hope, uh, you remember that I was not trying to make you do anything, and I hope your lawyer will do something to help me here, because this, uh, doesn't look good for me.'' He added, ''And, to be honest with you, I believe you.''
He later testified ''that he was not thinking when he left the message,'' the reports says, and that his distress may have gotten the better of his judgment.
Conclusions
Ms. Kaye says that it is unclear whether Mr. Paterson knew of Ms. Booker's scheduled appearance in Family Court, and that there was ''no evidence that the governor wrongfully induced or attempted to induce Booker not to appear.''
As for contacting Ms. Booker after referring the matter to the attorney general, she writes, ''The governor understood (or should have understood) that Booker would be an important source of information'' in the investigation.
''The governor did not ensure that the executive chamber made appropriate inquiry or took any appropriate action with respect to Johnson.'' Instead, ''the governor relied solely on Johnson as a basis to make denials to the media. It is hard to reconcile this conduct with the governor's expressed commitment to the cause of domestic-violence prevention.''
Conduct
OCT 31, 2009 Starting around 9 p.m., Mr. Harris had a series of conversations with Ms. Brown, who had gone to Ms. Booker's apartment. Ms. Brown testified that Mr. Harris asked whether Ms. Booker had been physically hurt and, according to the report, that he ''seemed to be predominantly concerned about whether Booker was going to file a police report.'' Mr. Harris, though, told investigators his main concern was whether Mr. Johnson had used his state position to interfere with the local police.
OCT. 31, At 10:02 p.m., Governor Paterson called Mr. Harris and they spoke for about 40 minutes; Mr. Harris testified that they did not discuss the episode, but instead talked about mutual friends, the World Series and their plans for the evening.
NOV. 1 There were at least five calls between Mr. Harris and Ms. Brown, one lasting more than 20 minutes. Mr. Harris testified that he was trying to find out whether there was any inappropriate intervention by state officials, and then ''turned his attention to the issue of potential media exposure.'' He said he asked Ms. Brown to take Ms. Booker to dinner and ''sort of get her to understand that if this thing moves the distance, that it's not just going to be the governor, the media is going to manipulate what is essentially a private situation between two people.''
''If you are asking me if it is possible I might have said to her, you know, please tell her not to go to court, it's possible that I said it,'' Mr. Harris testified.
Conclusions
Ms. Kaye says that despite Mr. Harris's having asked Ms. Brown ''to steer Booker toward 'noninterventionist' ways of resolving'' the dispute, ''there is no evidence to support a witness tampering charge'' because the conversations mostly occurred before the Family Court proceeding was initiated.
''Harris was more concerned about protecting the governor from potential negative media coverage.''
Conduct
OCT. 31, 2009 After clearing it with his superior, Major Day called Ms. Booker on her cellphone and then at home; they spoke for nearly two minutes. Major Day testified that he had called for the purpose of ''checking on her,'' and that he was trying to help. But Ms. Booker said that he asked her not to file charges, and that he was ''trying to sweep it underneath the rug.'' A friend of Ms. Booker's who had listened in on the conversation characterized the call as ''a whole bunch of yelling.''
NOV. 3 With the governor and Mr. Johnson scheduled to attend an election night party in Midtown Manhattan, Major Day asked a lieutenant in the security detail to look up Mr. Johnson's criminal history using a Web program called eJustice. The lieutenant was not authorized to use the system, so he asked a senior investigator to log in and then leave the room. That afternoon, Major Day also obtained a printout from the New York Statewide Police Information Network showing that a temporary order of protection had been filed against Mr. Johnson. That evening, he asked a New York detective providing security at the event in Midtown to find out whether Mr. Johnson would be arrested that night and he was told that there was no warrant.
He told investigators that his primary concern was for the governor's security. ''If Johnson was to be arrested or served,'' the report says, ''Day testified he did not want either of these events to occur when Johnson was with the governor.''
NOV. 3 Police reports in hand, Major Day again called Ms. Booker, and spoke to a friend who characterized his behavior as ''aggressive and rude,'' according to the report, and said he warned that if Ms. Booker pursued an order of protection, ''the situation could 'get out of hand.' '' Major Day, though, denied this.
Conclusions
Major Day, who spoke to investigators on three occasions, initially ''withheld key facts,'' according to the report, and later ''acknowledged that his previous testimony had been incomplete and inaccurate.'' Correcting his testimony precludes prosecution for perjury, the report says, but it notes that the security detail's ''protective function obviously does not require or authorize law enforcement officers to testify inaccurately.''
''At the very least, evidence shows that Day inserted the State Police into a local law enforcement matter, simply because a member of the executive chamber was involved and had asked him for assistance.''
''It is a violation of State Police protocol and eJustice regulations to access a criminal history without a legitimate investigative purpose,'' the report says.
Conduct
OCT. 31, 2009 Ms. Booker testified that Mr. Johnson choked her, threw her against a dresser and tore off her Halloween costume, then tried to stop her from calling the police. He can be heard in the background of her first 911 call, at 8:08 p.m., denying her accusations. Upon leaving her Bronx apartment, he made several phone calls, dialing three numbers in an effort to reach Mr. Harris, and ultimately reached Major Day.
OCT. 31 Mr. Johnson asked Ms. Brown to go to Ms. Booker's apartment.
FALL 2009 Sometime after the Oct. 31 episode, Mr. Johnson tried to obtain a pistol permit through the State Police, but was told to go through his local jurisdiction. Instead, he filled out the application and sent it to the State Police superintendent's office (there is no evidence any permit was issued).
Conclusions
Ms. Kaye says that the evidence ''warrants consideration of possible charges,'' and that she shared investigative material with the Bronx district attorney, who is looking into the original Oct. 31 episode.
''His attempt to obtain a pistol permit through State Police channels is evidence that he believed that his relationship with the State Police entitled him to seek favors from them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Elected lieutenant governor in 2006 after 22 years in the State Senate, Mr. Paterson was elevated to the state's top job in March 2008 after Gov. Eliot Spitzer resigned in disgrace. In February, under investigation for his interference in the Johnson- Booker dispute as well as for his acceptance of free World Series tickets, Mr. Paterson, 56, announced he would not run for election in November. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
DAVID W. JOHNSON: Beginning as an intern in Mr. Paterson's Harlem office in 1999, Mr. Johnson, 37, who is known as D. J., rose to become his driver, protector and scheduler, eventually earning $132,000 as a top aide with a broad portfolio. He was suspended without pay in February because of the Oct. 31 episode and its aftermath, and invoked his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination rather than testify in Ms. Kaye's investigation.
CLEMMIE L. HARRIS JR. A former State Police official, Mr. Harris was Mr. Paterson's roommate in Albany during his State Senate years, and he became a senior adviser when Mr. Paterson became governor. He advised the governor on a number of matters, including his speeches on the economy, issues affecting the black community and who should be appointed superintendent of the State Police. He regularly stays overnight in the governor's mansion and is one of Mr. Paterson's most trusted confidants.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); JUDGES (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); ARRESTS (72%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (93%); ELIOT SPITZER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



728 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Obama Trumpets Party's Small-Business Bona Fides

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and JACKIE CALMES; David M. Herszenhorn reported from Washington, and Jackie Calmes from Edison, N.J.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- At the core of some of the major policy fights in Washington these days is a ferocious competition between Republicans and Democrats over which party is the champion of America's small businesses -- a mantle that each side views as crucial to shaping economic policy and winning the November elections.
The battle was on full display on Wednesday as Senate Democrats pushed ahead with efforts to pass a bill that would increase lending to small businesses and provide tax breaks, and President Obama visited the Tastee Sub Shop in Edison, N.J., where he ordered a ''super sub with everything,'' to highlight his party's small-business agenda. 
The two sides agree that the nation's 27 million small businesses will be a big factor in the economic recovery. Beyond that, however, the gloves come off, as Democrats say Republicans are stalling the small-business bill and Republicans say that Democrats will strangle small businesses with higher taxes and heavy-handed regulation -- though Mr. Obama, in New Jersey, emphasized that he had cut taxes for small businesses eight times.
At the sandwich shop, Mr. Obama said there should be no argument. ''Surely, Democrats and Republicans ought to be able to agree on this bill,'' he said. ''Helping small businesses, cutting taxes, making credit available. This is as American as apple pie. Small businesses are the backbone of our economy. They are central to our identity as a nation. They are going to lead this recovery.''
But the tug of war for the affection of small-business owners was a central issue in the year-long debate over major health care legislation, and it stands to be an even bigger issue in the battle this fall over extending the Bush tax cuts.
Republicans, with support from the United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Federation of Independent Business, have begun making the case that allowing the Bush tax cuts to expire for the top two income brackets would harm small-business owners, impede the recovery and perhaps even lead to a double-dip recession.
Democrats counter that just 3 percent of tax returns in the top two brackets show any business income, meaning that most small-business owners stand to benefit from the Democrats' push to continue the tax cuts for individuals earning less than $200,000 and families earning less than $250,000.
And then there is the small-business bill itself, which has languished in the Senate for weeks.
With the midterm elections just three months away, Senate Republican leaders see little reason to hand Mr. Obama another legislative achievement, let alone one that would bolster the Democrats' efforts to debunk the image that the Republican Party has long cultivated as the primary champion of small businesses.
Democrats on Tuesday evening introduced yet another version of the legislation aimed at winning over Republican supporters. But the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said Democrats should only blame themselves for the delay in passing the bill, noting that it was repeatedly shelved to deal with other issues.
Mr. McConnell also sharply criticized the Democrats' economic policies. ''Spending, debt, regulations, more government -- none of it has worked,'' he said. ''And now they want to raise taxes on the very small businesses that are trying to create jobs.''
To counter the Republican opposition, Democrats are turning to groups like the Chamber of Commerce and the independent business federation -- traditionally Republican allies -- in hopes that they will help twist the arms of some Republican senators into voting for the bill.
The House has already approved a package similar to the one in the Senate, which would extend and expand tax cuts for small businesses to invest and hire, and create a $30 billion lending program within the Treasury Department, to be administered through community banks.
In a crucial test vote last week, two Senate Republicans, George LeMieux of Florida and George V. Voinovich of Ohio, voted with Democrats in favor of the $30 billion lending program, even as other Republicans denounced it as a mini ''bailout'' that would encourage community banks to make risky loans.
Buoyed by that vote, Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana and chairwoman of the small-business committee, continued to make a forceful case for the bill on the Senate floor on Wednesday even as Democratic leaders struggled to resolve procedural disputes with the Republicans that threatened to kill the measure.
''Eighty-one percent of the jobs lost in America were from small business,'' Ms. Landrieu said. ''If we do our job right,'' she added, ''this is the bill that will jump-start, jolt, be a catalyst.''
Ms. Landrieu met Wednesday morning with a number of advocacy groups who are supporting her bill and urged them to press Republicans to support the measure. The bill's fate seemed likely to be decided in a procedural vote on Thursday.
Democrats say that the Republicans' reputation as an ally of small business is undeserved, and that advocacy for small businesses is really a way of cloaking efforts to help big, wealthy corporate interests.
''The American people know one thing: They are the party of big business,'' the majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, said in an interview. ''All you have to do is look at what they voted against here in the United States Senate. I have nothing against big business, but to think that they are good for small business is a stretch of the imagination.''
Mr. Obama sought to take the fight out into the country on Wednesday with his visit to the tiny but popular Tastee Sub Shop, which was cleared of customers as counterterrorism agents patrolled its low roof.
Mr. Obama ordered a six-inch ''super sub'' -- he declared that at nearly 49 he can no longer eat the 12-inch variety -- and sat down at a table with the owner, Dave Thornton, and the owners of three businesses in nearby towns. ''We've weathered the storm well here at Tastee,'' Mr. Thornton told the president.
According to administration officials the other business owners -- of an Italian restaurant, a paper manufacturer and a home energy services company -- had benefited from lower-cost government loans and tax cuts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama with business owners at the Tastee Sub Shop in Edison, N.J. Tastee's owner, Dave Thornton, is third from left. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); HEALTH CARE LAW (67%); WAR & CONFLICT (65%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



729 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Judge Blocks Arizona's Law On Immigrants

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
PHOENIX -- A federal judge on Wednesday blocked the most controversial parts of Arizona's immigration enforcement law from going into effect, a ruling that at least temporarily squashed a state policy that had inflamed the national debate over immigration.
Judge Susan Bolton of Federal District Court issued a preliminary injunction against sections of the law, scheduled to take effect on Thursday, that called for police officers to check a person's immigration status while enforcing other laws and required immigrants to prove that they were authorized to be in the country or risk state charges. She issued the injunction in response to a legal challenge brought against the law by the Obama administration.
A spokesman for Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican who signed the law and has campaigned on it for election to a full term, said Wednesday that the governor would appeal the injunction on Thursday and ask for a speedy review. Legal experts predicted that the case could end up before the Supreme Court.
The law, designed to seek and deport illegal immigrants in a state that is the principal gateway for illegal border crossers, had provoked intense debate from coast to coast, drawing support in several polls but generating boycotts of the state by major civil rights groups and several cities and towns. 
It renewed calls for an overhaul of federal immigration law and led to repeated rebukes of it from President Obama and Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., who maintained that immigration policy is under the purview of the federal government, not individual states. The Mexican government, joined by seven other Latin American nations, supported one of the lawsuits against the law; the attorneys general of several states backed Arizona.
The ruling came four days before 1,200 National Guard members were scheduled to report to the Southwest border to assist federal and local law enforcement agencies there, part of the Obama administration's response to growing anxiety over the border and immigration that has fed support for the law.
Judge Bolton, appointed to the bench by President Bill Clinton, did allow some, less debated provisions of the law to go into effect, including one that bans cities from refusing to cooperate with federal immigration agents.
But she largely sided with arguments in a lawsuit by the Obama administration that the law, rather than closely hewing to existing federal statutes, as its supporters have claimed, interferes with longstanding federal authority over immigration and could lead to harassment of citizens and legal immigrants.
''Preserving the status quo through a preliminary injunction is less harmful than allowing state laws that are likely pre-empted by federal law to be enforced,'' she said.
''There is a substantial likelihood that officers will wrongfully arrest legal resident aliens,'' she wrote. ''By enforcing this statute, Arizona would impose,'' she said, citing a previous Supreme Court case, a '' 'distinct, unusual and extraordinary' burden on legal resident aliens that only the federal government has the authority to impose.''
The judge's decision was not her final word on the case. In granting the injunction, she simply indicated that the Justice Department was likely, but not certain, to prevail on those points at a later trial in federal court. She made no ruling on the six other suits that also challenged the law.
Her ruling, issued as demonstrators both for and against the law gathered here, and after hearings in three of the seven lawsuits against the it, seemed more likely to add another log to the fire than settle matters.
''This fight is far from over,'' said Ms. Brewer, whose lawyers had argued that Congress granted states the power to enforce immigration law particularly when, in their view, the federal government fell short. ''In fact,'' she added, ''it is just the beginning, and at the end of what is certain to be a long legal struggle, Arizona will prevail in its right to protect our citizens.''
State Senator Russell Pearce, a Republican and chief sponsor of the law, said in a statement that he was confident that the sections blocked by Judge Bolton would survive on appeal, noting the state's previous victories in court on other statutes designed to give it a larger role in immigration enforcement. ''The courts have made it clear states have the inherent power to enforce the laws of this country,'' he said.
But Gabriel Chin, a professor at the University of Arizona School of Law who has studied the law, called the ruling ''a nearly complete victory for the position of the United States.''
He noted that she ruled in the federal government's favor on most of the points it challenged.
Aside from stopping the requirement that the police initiate immigration checks, the judge also blocked provisions that allowed the police to hold anyone arrested for any crime until his immigration status was determined.
''Requiring Arizona law enforcement officials and agencies to determine the immigration status of every person who is arrested burdens lawfully present aliens because their liberty will be restricted while their status is checked,'' she wrote.
She also said Arizona could not make it a state crime for noncitizens to be in the state without proper documents, nor could it allow the police to conduct arrests without warrants if officers believed the offense would result in their deportation. She said there was a ''substantial likelihood'' of wrongful arrests.
The parts of the law she did allow were not challenged by the Justice Department, but do figure in some of the other lawsuits filed. They include forbidding ''sanctuary city'' policies by allowing residents to sue the local authorities if they adopt policies restricting cooperation with the federal government in immigration enforcement.
She also let stand a provision aimed at day laborers, who are mostly Latin American immigrants, by making it a crime to stop a vehicle in traffic or block traffic to hire someone off the street. But she blocked a provision that barred illegal immigrants from soliciting work in public places.
The law, adopted in April, coincided with economic anxiety and followed a number of high-profile crimes attributed to illegal immigrants and smuggling. It has become an issue in Congressional and local campaigns across the country.
Terry Goddard, the Arizona attorney general who opposed the law and is a possible Democratic opponent to Ms. Brewer, was quick to condemn her for signing it. ''Jan Brewer played politics with immigration, and she lost,'' he said in a statement.
But Republican candidates, including Senator John McCain of Arizona, who is seeking re-election, criticized the Obama administration for bringing suit.
''Instead of wasting taxpayer resources filing a lawsuit against Arizona and complaining that the law would be burdensome,'' Mr. McCain said in a joint statement with Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona, ''the Obama administration should have focused its efforts on working with Congress to provide the necessary resources to support the state in its efforts to act where the federal government has failed to take responsibility.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 28, 2010, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the timing of Judge Bolton's ruling. It was handed down Wednesday, not Friday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Opponents of the Arizona immigration law laid flowers Wednesday during a protest in Phoenix. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Illegal immigrants listened to a Border Patrol agent while awaiting deportation to Mexico in Nogales, Ariz., on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); JUDGES (92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (92%); INJUNCTIONS (90%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); BOYCOTTS (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%); CITY LIFE (65%); CITIES (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (76%); ERIC HOLDER (58%); JAN BREWER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NOGALES, AZ, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (73%) ARIZONA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



730 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Energy: The Safety Issues

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''We're Not Ready,'' by Bob Herbert (column, July 20):
This analysis of nuclear power is on the money. Safety is a concern that needs to be uppermost in the minds of those in the headlong rush to institute a ''nuclear renaissance.'' It's not.
The cost of nuclear power and the radioactive waste it produces are two other critical issues. And there are more, like the threat of terrorism and the likelihood of nuclear weapons proliferation when there are more reactors in countries with unstable political environments. 
We would be much better off if we took the huge federal loan guarantees for nuclear power and used them for renewable-energy and energy-efficiency programs. There would be a significantly greater and faster return.
We should be looking toward a true ''decarbonization'' of our energy economy. This would create more jobs, more quickly and at less cost, and provide significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions much sooner.
William F. Hewitt New York, July 21, 2010
The writer has a blog about climate change for the Foreign Policy Association and teaches at New York University's Center for Global Affairs.
To the Editor:
Contrary to the speculation in Bob Herbert's column, the nation's nuclear energy facilities are well prepared to protect public health and safety. The nuclear energy industry operates under the premise that things can go wrong; it designs its plants and trains personnel to respond safely and effectively to unlikely scenarios like major system malfunctions and security threats.
Additionally, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission requires the industry to be prepared to protect public health and safety during worst-case events. Every nuclear plant in the United States is required to have emergency plans, procedures and notification systems at the ready 24/7 should an emergency occur. Every plant is also required to regularly perform emergency and security drills that the N.R.C. grades.
A ''defense in depth'' safety design, which protected public health when the Three Mile Island accident occurred, is built into nuclear plant structures and operating systems. Many subsequent improvements in personnel training and operational practices have made nuclear energy a reliable contributor to the nation's economic well-being.
The hundreds of companies engaged in the industry stake their success and reputation on one another's commitment to safety.
Marvin Fertel President and C.E.O. Nuclear Energy Institute Washington, July 23, 2010
To the Editor:
The need for more nuclear power plants brings with it a compelling need for a new focus on safety. That is one reason we should consider a new kind of reactor: an accelerator-driven subcritical reactor, known as A.D.S.R., driven by a superconducting particle accelerator like those used in physics research.
A.D.S.R. stations would generate power cheaply by burning thorium, uranium or waste from conventional reactors. They would do so safely and cleanly, producing minimal waste and no byproducts useful to terrorists. Their subcritical operation would be inherently safe because an accelerator can simply be switched off.
India, with its large thorium reserves, is way ahead in considering this opportunity. However, at the United States Energy Department laboratories, at universities and at companies, development of new nuclear technologies is being led by scientists and engineers who are eager to apply their skills to humanity's energy, climate and security challenges.
Rolland Johnson Batavia, Ill., July 20, 2010
The writer is president of Muons, a company that is developing concepts and technologies for high-energy physics research and for other accelerator applications like A.D.S.R.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY FELIX SOCKWELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (74%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (74%); NUCLEAR WASTE (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); WRITERS (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); CLIMATE CHANGE (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (69%); JOB CREATION (67%); GREENHOUSE GASES (67%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (64%); SUPERCONDUCTORS (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TERRORISM (55%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOREIGN POLICY ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



731 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 260 words

HEADLINE: Solar Energy in New York

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Companies Find Ways to Bypass Earmarks Ban'' (front page, July 5) correctly noted that I have sought federal funds for the Solar Energy Consortium based in Kingston, N.Y. I take issue with the implication that the consortium was created to subvert a new rule that bans earmarks to for-profit companies. 
The fact is that the consortium is a 501(c)3 nonprofit that was established in 2007, three years before the new rule was announced, in order to drive the creation of a solar energy industry cluster in New York by connecting local universities and companies to help overcome technological, strategic and economic challenges. The results have been remarkable. So far, more than 400 solar-related jobs in upstate New York have been created, and 1,000 jobs are expected to be created by the end of 2011.
In light of the oil spill in the Gulf, President Obama has renewed his commitment to renewable energy sources like solar. But with other nations investing a great deal more in renewable technologies, the United States is at risk of becoming totally reliant on foreign sources of clean energy just as we're reliant on foreign sources of oil. We need more federal investments in organizations like the Solar Energy Consortium to make sure that does not happen.
I'm proud of what we have accomplished so far in bringing new clean energy jobs to New York, and I hope to do more so that we can continue creating jobs and ensure that solar energy technology is made in America.
Maurice Hinchey Member of Congress, 22nd Dist., N.Y. Washington, July 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (88%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); OIL SPILLS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%); MAURICE D HINCHEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



732 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1427 words

HEADLINE: Federal Job Subsidies Provide a Stimulus to the Private Sector

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- States are putting hundreds of thousands of people directly into jobs through programs reminiscent of the more ambitious work projects of the Great Depression.
But the new efforts have a twist: While the wages are being paid by the government, most of the participants are working for private companies.
The opportunity to simultaneously benefit struggling workers and small businesses has helped these job subsidies gain support from liberals and conservatives. Congress is now considering whether to extend the subsidy, which would expire in September, for an additional year. A House vote is expected on Thursday or Friday.
Despite questions about whether the programs displace existing workers, many economists have argued that direct job creation programs are a more cost-effective way to put some of the nation's 14.6 million unemployed back to work than indirect alternatives like tax credits and construction projects. 
The average duration of unemployment continues to break records, after all, and studies have shown that the longer people are out of work, the less employable they become.
''I never, ever, ever thought I'd end up in an art gallery,'' said Tremaine Edwards, 35, a former computer technician who had been unemployed for two years before he was hired in May by Gallery Guichard, a private gallery in Chicago. Mr. Edwards now earns $10 an hour, financed by the government, through the Put Illinois to Work program, to maintain the company's Web site, curate exhibits and run gallery events.
He has also become the gallery's star salesman, selling five paintings during the most recent gallery opening despite no background in fine arts or sales.
''I feel like if I knew I could have done this 15 years ago, I would have,'' he said, grateful for the opportunity to escape cubicle life. ''As long as I keep selling like this, I think I'll be fine, no matter what happens with Put Illinois to Work.''
Proponents of these national job subsidies, initially financed with $5 billion of stimulus money, say it is better to pay people for working in real jobs than to pay them jobless benefits for staying idle.
Placing workers in the private sector is also more promising than giving them make-work government jobs, they say, because market forces can be harnessed to figure out where people like Mr. Edwards should invest their skills for the long run.
Others contend that training and financing will accomplish little if businesses are unwilling to hire on their own. They argue that government policies should instead be encouraging business growth robust enough to create jobs independently.
The effectiveness of these programs will not be clear for many months, if ever. As the stimulus money dries up, employers will decide whether to keep the workers at their own cost or cast them back into the unemployment pool. Moreover, some economists fear that people hired with government subsidies may simply be displacing other workers, rather than adding to total employment, no matter how earnestly the programs are policed.
''There's always a concern that the employer or somebody else who hires them would have simply hired someone else,'' says David Card, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley.
About 247,000 workers will have been placed in these subsidized jobs by the end of September, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a research organization. The jobs cover everything from assembly-line work to white-collar positions like business development, and typically pay $8 to $15 an hour, according to LaDonna Pavetti, a director at the center. There are exceptions: San Francisco, for example, pays up to $74,000 in annual salary, which employers can also supplement with additional pay.
So far just over a billion dollars has been approved to create subsidized employment programs in 36 states and the District of Columbia, according to the Department of Health and Human Services. The biggest year-round program is run by Illinois, which has put 22,000 workers in subsidized jobs (and 5,000 in subsidized summer youth jobs) and has 30,000 people on its waiting list.
Most states pay 100 percent of workers' wages up to a certain point. To qualify for the subsidy, workers must have a low household income. They must also have minor children, or be under age 21 themselves. Employers seem to hear about the programs largely through word of mouth, and some states actively help match eligible workers with companies.
These eligibility restrictions are part of the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program, created in the welfare reform legislation of 1996, which is now being used to channel the job subsidy money to states.
States, cities and local companies have been among the biggest advocates for extending the program beyond September. Small businesses benefit in particular since having an additional worker can make a bigger difference to a company with a small staff. Getting a worker at no cost can also free up cash for other types of investments.
''We have been saying to small businesses, 'This, finally, is the bailout program designed for you,' '' says James Whelly, deputy director of work force development at the San Francisco Human Services Agency.
Gallery Guichard, which sells paintings and sculptures of the African diaspora on Chicago's South Side, has hired five employees, who are all college educated or are enrolled in college, through the Illinois program. While only one had any experience in fine arts, the gallery owners gush about the group's value to the company.
''But not for Put Illinois to Work, we would not have been able to get this injection of young new talent and start to expand again,'' said Andre Guichard, one of the owners.
Gallery revenues fell by 40 to 60 percent last year, Mr. Guichard said, as collectors stopped buying its works (generally, at least $1,000 a painting) and stalled on payment plans. As a result, the gallery began cutting its hours from seven days a week to six days a week to, begrudgingly, by appointment only.
More worrisome, it had fewer exhibit openings and other events, which Mr. Guichard says are the source of most sales.
Since bringing in the new workers, he says, the gallery has had more major events than ever, including back-to-back openings in July.
The business has been expanding in other ways, too. Mr. Guichard's wife and business partner, Frances, is starting a sales program tailored to corporate buyers. And the couple is traveling to South Africa this week to hunt for undiscovered artists, something they have never done outside of the United States. This is possible, they say, not only because they have saved enough money on labor costs to afford the trip, but also because they now have sufficient staff to run the gallery in their absence.
Assessing the success of these subsidies, and the sustainability of the jobs they create, is complicated.
Mr. Guichard said he expected to keep three of the five new workers after the program ends. But the month before it began using the program, the gallery had four employees on its payroll (in addition to a few who worked hours as needed); none of these workers are still there. Three left on their own, said Mr. Guichard, in part because they were frustrated after their hours were cut and their income fluctuated.
But one -- Mr. Guichard's cousin Juan Rodriguez -- was laid off.
Mr. Guichard said he wanted to keep Mr. Rodriguez, a 24-year-old, precocious curator and a ''hard worker,'' but decided not to because Mr. Rodriguez did not qualify for Put Illinois to Work.
Instead, Mr. Guichard hired Mr. Rodriguez's younger brother, Patrick, whom the gallery now can employ free.
The older brother is pondering a move to Atlanta, where he hopes to find more job opportunities. Because the program has helped his younger brother, who had been out of work a year, he tries not to harbor a grudge.
''I think it's basically a good program, but it needs to be somewhat less restrictive basically,'' Juan Rodriguez said. ''Still, the whole idea is to put people to work, but it's a situation where it's actually put me out of work instead.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Patrick Rodriguez and Jasmine Klecka work at Gallery Guichard, an expanding business on the South Side of Chicago. (B1)
Andre Guichard leading a meeting at Gallery Guichard, a beneficiary of stimulus funds. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) CHART: Putting the Jobless to Work: Many states have used federal stimulus money to partially or entirely finance employment, primarily in the private sector. (Sources: Center on Budget and Policy Priorities (jobs)
Center for Law and Social Policy (jobs)
 Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families (money)) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PAINTING (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); EXHIBITIONS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); CONSTRUCTION (68%)

ORGANIZATION: ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN & FAMILIES (59%); CENTER FOR LAW & SOCIAL POLICY (59%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



733 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
POLLUTION TROUBLES GROWING
In China, Report Shows
China, the world's biggest emitter of greenhouse gas, continues to suffer the downsides of unbridled economic growth despite new environmental initiatives. A government report said the quality of air in Chinese cities is increasingly tainted by coal-burning power plants, grit from construction sites and exhaust from millions of new cars squeezing onto crowded roadways. PAGE A4 
NEW HEAD OF U.N. WATCHDOG
Moving to fix the deeply troubled agency that investigates the United Nations, the General Assembly approved the appointment of a new director for the unit after years of battles over its independence. PAGE A6
National
SAN FRANCISCO AIMS
To Stop Bridge Jumpers
The agency that oversees transportation financing in the Bay Area approved $5 million for the final engineering and design of a steel mesh net hanging 20 feet below the Golden Gate Bridge to catch jumpers attempting suicide. PAGE A13
Changing Sentencing Rules A16
New York
CASE UNDERSCORES LIMITS
Of Wrongful-Death Payouts
The $3.25 million settlement that the city announced this week with the estate of Sean Bell, a black man shot to death by the police in 2006, serves as a reminder of a ruthless truth about calculating settlements: It is generally cheaper to settle a case in which there was a death than one in which there was a serious injury. PAGE A21
Business
NOVARTIS PLANS GIVEAWAY
To Woo Tylenol's Customers
The Swiss drug giant Novartis plans to give away up to 250,000 bottles of its new liquid children's medicine, Triaminic Fever Reducer Pain Reliever, in an effort to woo parents frustrated by a nationwide recall and shortage of a competing product -- liquid children's Tylenol. PAGE B1
Sports
CONNECTICUT TO INVESTIGATE
Charities Helping Athlete
The Connecticut attorney general started an investigation into two charities run by the man spearheading efforts to help Mandi Schwartz, the Yale hockey player whose battle with leukemia has attracted wide attention. PAGE B13
Arts
FANTASY HERO ASKS SUBJECTS
To Show Their True Selves
Leonard Nimoy, who for more than 40 years was Spock, the pointy-eared science officer on ''Star Trek,'' has been an accomplished photographer for nearly that long, and his work has been collected by several museums. His most recent project, ''Secret Selves,'' an exhibition at Mass MoCA in North Adams, Mass., is Mr. Nimoy's first solo show at a major museum. PAGE C1
Home
HELPING YOUR GARDEN
Survive a Brutal Summer
The record-breaking heat in the Northeast this summer, with temperatures in the 90s day after day, is testing gardeners' mettle. PAGE D5
Thursday Styles
A 6-ACRE PRESERVE
Where Artists Roam
The 17th annual Watermill Center benefit, on the six-acre arts complex founded to celebrate those who make art, pulls together elements of the Hampton's very different social universes. Guy Trebay, The Gimlet Eye. PAGE E1
Op-ed
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A23
GAIL COLLINS PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); GARDENING (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (75%); APPROVALS (75%); POWER PLANTS (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (72%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); WRONGFUL DEATH & SURVIVAL (72%); SUICIDE (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (66%); LEUKEMIA (64%); ANALGESICS (64%); VISUAL ARTISTS (61%); SENTENCING (53%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (53%); SHOOTINGS (52%)

COMPANY: NOVARTIS AG (82%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

TICKER: NVS (NYSE) (82%); NOVN (SWX) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (82%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



734 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Fed's Regional Report Shows Sluggish Growth

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The pace of economic activity has slowed or held steady in parts of the country, revealing a choppy path back to health.
A new survey released by the Federal Reserve on Wednesday found the U.S. economy growing this summer, even as risks mount. Of the 12 regions tracked by the Fed, the survey said that growth held steady in Cleveland and Kansas City, but slowed in Atlanta and Chicago. Economic activity elsewhere was described as modest. 
High unemployment, cautious consumers and businesses, an ailing housing market and an edgy Wall Street have kept the recovery from gaining strength.
Manufacturing expanded in most regions. However, half of them -- New York, Cleveland, Kansas City, Chicago, Atlanta and Richmond -- reported that activity had ''slowed'' or ''leveled off.'' Steel production declined in both Chicago and Cleveland.
Retailers reported sales gains, although merchants in some places said shoppers focused on buying ''necessities.'' Sales of big-ticket goods were slower. In fact, reports across most regions found that auto sales had declined.
The housing market turned more sluggish after homebuyer tax credits expired in April. Commercial real estate businesses continued to ''struggle'' across all 12 regions, the survey said.
The findings will figure into deliberations when the Fed chairman Ben S. Bernanke and his colleagues meet next on Aug. 10. The Fed has signaled that it will hold rates at record lows at that time and probably well into next year to help energize the recovery.
And Mr. Bernanke told Congress last week that the Fed is prepared to take new steps to stimulate economic growth if the recovery were to flash signs of sliding back into recession.
The Fed's region-by-region survey, traditionally known as the Beige Book, provides a unique snapshot of the nation.
The central bank's 12 regional arms have their people fan out to gather information from businesses and talk to local economists and experts on the markets. The result is a more intimate look at the overall economy than broad statistics provide.
The Fed survey is based on information collected from the Fed's 12 regional banks on or before July 19.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); RETAIL SALES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (68%); TAX LAW (66%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (62%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (51%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%) GEORGIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



735 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Plan to Aid 9/11 Victims Is Rejected In House

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- House Republicans on Thursday blocked a Democratic plan to provide billions of dollars for medical treatment to rescue workers and residents of New York City who suffered illnesses from the toxic dust and debris at ground zero.
A majority of the lawmakers in the chamber supported the bill, but the 255-to-159 vote fell short of the two-thirds margin needed under special rules that were used to bring the measure to the floor. In the end, 243 Democrats and 12 Republicans supported the measure; 155 Republicans and 4 Democrats opposed it. 
Democrats used rules requiring a wider majority for approval to prevent Republicans from offering amendments on the floor that would embarrass Democrats in an election year.
Republican opponents of the legislation expressed concern over the $7.4 billion cost of the program. But Democrats accused Republicans of being callous and vowed to bring the bill back for another vote in the fall.
Until now, the federal government has been appropriating money on an annual basis to monitor the health of people injured at ground zero and to provide them with medical treatment. But the bill's supporters said there were problems with the year-to-year approach, including that money for the program was subject to the political whims of Congress and the White House.
The bill would have provided $3.2 billion over the next eight years to monitor and treat injuries stemming from exposure to toxic dust and debris at ground zero. New York City would have paid 10 percent of those health costs.
The bill also would have set aside $4.2 billion to reopen the Sept. 11 Victim Compensation Fund to provide compensation for any job and economic losses.
In addition, the bill contained a provision that would have allowed money from the Victim Compensation Fund to be paid out to anyone who receives payment under the pending settlement stemming from lawsuits that 10,000 rescue and cleanup workers filed against the city. At the moment, anyone who receives a settlement from the city could not receive compensation from the fund, according to the bill's sponsors.
Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, a Democrat and one of the bill's chief sponsors, expressed disappointment with the outcome, saying that it was a shame that many who opposed the measure ''don't understand the scope and severity of this health crisis.'' But she expressed confidence that the House would pass the bill with a simple majority when Congress returned from its summer recess in September.
Representative Lamar Smith, a Republican from Texas, who opposed the bill, described it as an ''irresponsible overreach'' and asserted that it did not contain sufficient protections to prevent waste and fraud.
Representative Jerrold Nadler, another Democratic sponsor, called the rejection of the measure ''heartless and unpatriotic.''
There are nearly 60,000 people enrolled in a variety of health-monitoring and treatment programs related to the 9/11 attacks, according to the sponsors of the bill. The federal government provides the bulk of the funding for those health programs.
Heading into the vote, Democrats acknowledged it would be difficult to gather enough support to pass the bill under special rules requiring a two-thirds majority.
But Democrats were concerned that a simple majority vote would allow Republicans to propose a controversial amendment that seeks to deny 9/11 health benefits to illegal immigrants. That amendment threatened to fracture Democratic support for the original bill into two camps: moderates who might feel political pressure to deprive illegal immigrants of such benefits and liberals who flatly oppose the Republican amendment.
Still, many supporters of the legislation outside of Congress expressed bitter disappointment that House leaders did not allow a simple majority vote on the bill. In a statement afterward, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg expressed outrage over the outcome and criticized both parties.
''It was wrong for the overwhelming majority of Republicans to vote against the bill,'' he said, ''and it was wrong for Democrats to bring the bill to the floor under rules that made passage so much more difficult.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, a chief sponsor of the failed bill, with Jon Houston, her press secretary, on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); LITIGATION (67%)

PERSON: CAROLYN MALONEY (59%); JERROLD NADLER (58%); LAMAR SMITH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



736 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: New Restrictions Placed on Debt Settlement Companies

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Trade Commission on Thursday announced restrictions on companies that purport to help borrowers get rid of crippling amounts of debt. The effort aims to address complaints about lenders that charge huge fees but fail to reduce the obligations of customers in debt.
The rules, which will take effect in the fall, prohibit companies from charging a fee before they settle or reduce a customer's credit card or unsecured debt. The rules also require that the companies set up dedicated accounts for debt relief payments by consumers and disclose how long the debt-reduction efforts will take, what they will cost and the potentially negative consequences that could occur. 
''Too many of these companies pick the last dollar out of consumers' pocket and, far from leaving them better off, push them deeper into debt, even bankruptcy,'' Jon Leibowitz, chairman of the F.T.C., said in a statement announcing the regulations.
''This rule will stop companies who offer consumers false promises of reducing credit card debts by half or more in exchange for large, upfront fees,'' he said.
Debt settlement programs boomed after the housing market collapse, the recession and the rise in unemployment. As the industry has grown, so have the charges of unfair practices.
Attorneys general in more than 20 states have brought enforcement actions against debt-relief companies since 2004. According to comments filed with the F.T.C., the number of consumer complaints against companies in the industry more than doubled from 2007 to 2009.
The leader of a trade group representing the debt-settlement industry said he believed the rules were unfair and would put a lot of companies out of business.
''I think this is a victory for the big banks and a loss for consumers,'' said David Leuthold, the executive director of the Association of Settlement Companies.
Credit card companies often will not settle a debt for less than is owed until a consumer has deposited the entire negotiated repayment in an independent account, Mr. Leuthold said. If the companies are not allowed to collect any fees before settlement, that leaves them providing services for months without compensation.
''Most companies will go out of business because of this,'' he said.
Consumer advocates generally applauded the rules but also said loopholes leave consumers open to abuse. Susan Grant, the director of consumer protection for the Consumer Federation of America, said that because the regulations were amendments to the F.T.C.'s telemarketing sales rule, they applied only to agreements struck as a result of telephone calls by debt-relief companies to consumers or consumers' calls to a company in response to advertisements.
Not covered, Ms. Grant said, are transactions that take place entirely online -- where debt-relief companies often advertise -- or as a result of a face-to-face meeting between a company representative and a consumer.
Joel Winston, the associate director of the division of financial practices at the F.T.C., said that while those exceptions did exist, the commission thought that nearly all of the fraudulent activity in the debt-relief industry involved telephone traffic.
Even the commission is uncertain, however, about some situations. If, for example, a debt-laden consumer responds by e-mail to an online ad, then conducts a conversation with a debt-settlement company via Skype, which transmits voice and video over the Internet, it is not certain whether the transaction would be considered telemarketing.
''But we certainly will be monitoring the business, and can still bring charges under general F.T.C. regulations,'' Mr. Winston said. ''I would hope that members of this industry would not try to evade the rules like that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jon Leibowitz, the F.T.C. chairman, with Vice President Joe Biden, announced the new consumer protections Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORPORATE DEBT (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); CONSUMER CREDIT COUNSELING (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TELEMARKETING (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TELEMARKETING REGULATION (72%); LITIGATION (71%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (92%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



737 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Natural Gas Helps Exxon And Shell Lift Profits

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Exxon Mobil's quarterly profit increased 85 percent on surging oil prices and a big rise in refining margins, while Royal Dutch Shell's earnings rose 34 percent.
The oil companies relied on natural gas to drive production growth in the second quarter, a fuel traditionally less profitable than crude oil.
Exxonsaid second-quarter net income excluding one-time items rose 85 percent compared with the same period in 2009, to $7.56 billion. Analysts on average had expected a profit of $1.46 a share, according to Thomson Reuters. Revenue increased 24 percent to $92.5 billion, from $74.5 billion in the same quarter a year ago. 
Shell said second-quarter profit, calculated on a similar basis, rose 34 percent to $4.21 billion. Revenue was $90.6 billion, up from $63.9 billion.
After strong showings in the first quarter for both, the results raised hopes that both companies could start to offer investors meaningful growth again.
Exxon said second-quarter production was 4.0 million barrels of oil equivalent per day, up 8 percent from the same period a year earlier, while its smaller rival Shell said output was up 5 percent at 3.1 million barrels.
Shell has suffered seven years of falling output and Exxon's performance has also been anemic over the period. Philip Weiss, an oil analyst with Argus Research, said the impressive headline output numbers were driven by gas, with Shell's crude production up 1 percent and Exxon's down 1 percent.
Oil accounted for only 58 percent of Exxon's output, compared with 64 percent in the same period last year, and Shell's oil weighting dropped to 53 percent from 59 percent.
A global gas glut because of the economic crisis and a big increase in shale gas production means the outlook for gas prices is uncertain, which could put pressure on future earnings.
Exxon, now the largest natural gas producer in the United States after its $30 billion stock deal to buy XTO Energy, plans to accelerate drilling in gas-rich shale fields in North America in the second half of this year.
''It's our expectation that overall drilling activity would continue to increase,'' David Rosenthal, an investor relations executive with Exxon, told analysts in a conference call.
Shell's chief financial officer, Simon Henry, said the gap between gas and oil prices grew in the last year as oil prices rose faster than gas prices.
BP, which is based in London, said Tuesday that its underlying result rose 77 percent. The company is still battling to permanently seal a blown-out well in the Gulf of Mexico that has caused the worst oil spill in American history.
High oil and gas prices were the main driver of the gains, although the higher output and a recovery in refinery margins also helped.
Crude oil prices were 30 percent higher in the quarter than a year before, averaging $77.81 a barrel, while global refining margins rose 10 percent, according to BP data.
Shell's results included a $56 million charge related to the United States moratorium on deepwater drilling, imposed after the BP oil spill three months ago.
Shell's chief executive, Peter Voser, told analysts in a conference call that he would think about reclaiming the money from BP. BP declined to comment on the potential for a Shell claim, but pointed out the compensation fund they agreed to pay into did not cover such items.
Shell added it had exceeded restructuring targets, achieving annual cost savings of $3.5 billion and cutting 7,000 jobs, allowing it to conclude its overhaul six months quicker than planned.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Exxon Mobil's profit rose increased 85 percent on surging oil prices and rising refining margins. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOBY TALBOT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); OIL SPILLS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (72%); HISTORY (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (97%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (95%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (97%); RDSA (LSE) (95%); RDSA (AMS) (95%); RDS.B (NYSE) (95%); RDS.A (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (97%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (97%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



738 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Lawyers, Far From Gulf, Skirmish on Spill Claims

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
BOISE, Idaho -- This city, more than 1,500 miles from the Gulf of Mexico, may seem like an unlikely place for lawyers to gather to argue about the fate of hundreds of federal lawsuits related to the oil spill.
But Boise is where the federal Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation was scheduled to meet this month -- it gathers in different locations around the country throughout the year -- and so this is where lawyers had to fly to make their case about where all the oil spill lawsuits should be consolidated. 
''This must be the biggest thing to hit Idaho since 'Napoleon Dynamite,' '' one lawyer joked, referring to the 2004 cult comedy set in the state.
Choosing the right venue for the cases, to avoid any potential conflicts of interest for the judges or jurors, is essential, Elizabeth J. Cabraser, a California lawyer who also represented plaintiffs in the Exxon Valdez oil spill, told the judges.
''The entire country has watched this disaster 24/7,'' she said. ''This is the highest-profile litigation that's ever been in this country, and is going to require a jurist who is above reproach.'' Ms. Cabraser suggested that the case be heard in Gulfport, Miss., which she said would be convenient for many of the plaintiffs.
The panel of seven judges is expected to issue a decision in August.
Over the course of 90 minutes, 23 lawyers spoke in rapid-fire presentations -- the judicial equivalent of speed-dating -- with each making a case for a location, and sometimes a particular judge. Arguments were made for Texas, Louisiana, Florida, Mississippi, Alabama and even South Carolina.
Some of the lawyers, particularly those working for the oil industry, favored Houston, a city that many oil companies call home. ''It meets all the characteristics the panel has traditionally looked at,'' argued Andrew J. Langan, a lawyer for BP.
Lawyers on the plaintiffs' side suggested that Houston might be overly kind to the defendants.
Russ Herman, a major litigator of mass torts, said that his home state, Louisiana, ''the place that has suffered the most, deserves to have the scales balanced.''
''You have the opportunity to focus the world and the country on the disaster, so it will not happen again -- and assist us,'' he thundered.
Ervin A. Gonzales, a Florida lawyer, argued that ''clearly, Louisiana is the most affected state, but there may be appearances of conflict'' for judges and jurors. He suggested Miami.
Another lawyer, Perry Weitz, from New York, argued in favor of recruiting Judge Shira A. Scheindlin of Federal District Court in Manhattan, who has experience in complex cases, to New Orleans.
Allan Kanner, a New Orleans lawyer representing Louisiana, argued that his city was ''the geographical center of gravity'' for the cases. ''If after 9/11, if this panel had sent all those cases from New York to Houston,'' he said, ''I think the public would have been outraged.''
Several federal judges in New Orleans have had to remove themselves from cases because of conflicts of interest, like investments or family involvement in cases. But those advocating for New Orleans spoke highly of Judge Carl Barbier.
Judge Barbier is already hearing many spill cases and has survived defendants' efforts to have him removed over accusations of conflict of interest. He owned oil industry bonds, but sold them before the cases were well under way; the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit rejected attempts to take him off the cases.
Judge John G. Heyburn II of Federal District Court in Kentucky, the head of the panel, brushed aside the suggestion that a judge's location might unduly influence his actions. ''Time after time they've proven they can do that in a fair way,'' he said.
The cases could also be split up among several judges, with lawyers suggesting that one could handle death and personal injury claims from those aboard the Deepwater Horizon rig and perhaps the claims of economic loss, another could handle the complaints of BP shareholders who lost money, and another could take on environmental cases.
In her presentation, Ms. Cabraser warned of the bitter experience of litigating over the Exxon Valdez. Many of her clients died before getting their money from the company. ''Time is the enemy here,'' she said.
For its part, BP clearly prefers that most of those affected by the spill seek compensation from the $20 billion fund set aside for economic damages that is being run by Kenneth R. Feinberg instead of from the courts.
After the hearing, Ha Nguyen, a plaintiff who owns a shrimp boat in Lafourche Parish, said her top priority was quick disposition of the case. ''I want to see the process go quickly,'' she said. ''I want to see justice.''
The lawyers left the courtroom in a festive mood, flattering and insulting each other with genial familiarity.
''You are the Superman of the Justice League!'' Mr. Herman said to W. Mark Lanier, a plaintiffs lawyer who wants the cases heard in Houston, his home. (In an interview, Mr. Lanier noted that he had won many cases against oil giants in Houston, and said, ''Houston jurors hate big oil, and think they're all dirty.'')
Mr. Herman, who argued for New Orleans, pulled a reporter close, and stage-whispered loudly enough for Mr. Lanier to hear, ''He's one of the four or five best lawyers in the country.''
Pausing for effect, he added, ''and we're going to be so happy to see him ply his trade in Louisiana.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (91%); OIL SPILLS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); BP GULF SPILL LITIGATION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TORTS (73%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (72%); BUSINESS TORTS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: JUDICIAL PANEL ON MULTIDISTRICT LITIGATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (93%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); GULFPORT, MS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); MIAMI, FL, USA (68%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); IDAHO, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



739 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: Growth Is Expected To Slow in 2nd Half

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
Two steps forward, one step back.
That describes the current thinking about a year into the putative economic recovery.
On Friday, the government will release its report on the nation's output for the second quarter, showing how much, if at all, the economy downshifted as the summer began.
Many economists -- concerned about the sluggish pace of job creation, dwindling housing activity and decelerating retail sales -- say that slowdown is continuing this summer and have recently downgraded their expectations for the second half of the year.
''Practically every Street economist took a knife to Q2 and Q3 G.D.P. growth,'' David A. Rosenberg, chief economist for Gluskin Sheff, wrote last week in a note to clients, referring to Wall Street forecasts for gross domestic product. For the second-quarter results to be released Friday, economists project a modest annualized gain of 2.6 percent, down from 2.7 percent in the first quarter and 5.6 percent in the final quarter of last year. 
Though some people started the year hoping for stronger results, economists say that the slow pace of growth should have been expected.
''So far, the recovery is remarkably normal for a postfinancial-crisis recovery,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, a professor at Harvard and co-author, with Carmen M. Reinhart, of ''This Time Is Different,'' an economic history of financial crises.
''It doesn't mean that we should cheer that it's been so grim,'' added Mr. Rogoff, who is a former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund. ''But on the other hand, it's not necessarily a reason to panic.''
Even shares in companies that are more ebullient, like Delta Air Lines and Amazon.com, have been driven down by nervous investors when executives announced plans to increase capacity or hire aggressively.
Perhaps Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, put it best this month when he described the outlook for the United States economy as ''unusually uncertain.''
The news in recent weeks has been rather bleak. A crucial index of consumer confidence, which was rising strongly earlier this year, dropped for the second month in a row in July, while sales of existing homes have fallen for two consecutive months. Employers are adding fewer jobs than they were just a few months ago, and banks are lending less to companies than they were a year earlier, even after relatively good second quarter-corporate profits.
Earlier this year, expectations were much higher. The National Association of Home Builders, for example, forecast that buyers would sign contracts for 467,000 new homes this year; now it is projecting that they will buy just 375,000 homes -- down almost 20 percent.
''We just thought that overall, the economy would have been doing better than it's been doing,'' said Bernard Markstein, senior economist with the home builders.
At the start of the year, manufacturing seemed to be staging a comeback as companies replenished inventories that fell very low during the recession. Many economists assumed that once products were back on shelves, consumers would start buying enough to deplete warehouse inventories. Now, consumer demand appears not quite strong enough.
Many companies that have reported impressive results this earnings season, including bellwethers like United Parcel Service and 3M, indicated that their sales swelled mostly outside the United States.
As a result, companies are still not hiring nearly as many people in the United States as policy makers -- and the unemployed -- want. The unemployment rate, at 9.5 percent, is not far off the peak of 10.1 percent, and 6.75 million people have been out of work for more than six months.
Part of the slowdown stems from the expiration of stimulus measures like the home buyer tax credit and the cash for clunkers program to bolster auto sales. But it is also perhaps the inevitable aftermath of a protracted era of credit-driven excess, buoyed by inflated housing prices.
Earlier this year, some economists projected stronger growth rates in part because they were looking at recessions in the early 1990s and the early 1980s. The problem with such analogies is that the latest recession was precipitated by a financial crash rather than more cyclical boom-and-bust factors.
Many Wall Street economists and investors have ''been too willing to see this as a normal cyclical event distorted by some crazy things going on in housing,'' said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, ''whereas this was almost entirely driven by what was going on in the financial markets and houses.''
Consumers who used their skyrocketing home values to borrow ever larger sums of money to feed further spending are now paying off that debt, which hampers their spending. That process is ''very slow and painful,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR Inc. ''There is not that much that can be done about it, as much as politicians would love to find some silver bullet.''
In fact, politicians are debating quite ferociously whether more needs to be done to usher the economy along. The fiercest arguments are over whether to inject further stimulus spending into the economy and whether to let the tax cuts for the wealthy enacted under President George W. Bush expire at the end of the year.
There are those who argue that the current slowdown is just a hiccup, caused in part by tremors in Europe and concerns about a hard landing in China.
''We were hit by these shocks,'' said Bernard Baumohl, chief global economist at the Economic Outlook Group. ''But as we get additional evidence that the European economies are able to withstand the debt crisis and as banks are showing they have stronger capital and Chinese policy makers are successfully able to avoid any sharp downturn, that will be reflected in higher confidence among U.S. businesses and consumers.''
On the ground, slow growth has spawned a cautious mood that is feeding -- you have it -- slow growth.
''A lot of people are looking at things with the glass half empty,'' said Douglas C. Yearley Jr., chief executive of Toll Brothers, the home builder. ''And they're temporarily on the sidelines.''
Companies, meanwhile, are not yet ready to capitalize on good news. Although 3M, which makes things as diverse as Post-it Notes and screen coatings for iPads, announced strong earnings growth in the second quarter, its chief executive, George W. Buckley, told analysts that he expected a slowdown in the second half and that ''hiring will likely be low.''
At U.P.S., the company's familiar brown trucks delivered an average of 153,000 more packages a day in the United States during the second quarter than in the comparable period a year earlier.
But the company, which has about 18,000 fewer people in package sorting centers and on driving routes in the United States than at its peak two years ago, said it was not yet hiring in great numbers. ''The bottom line is that the growth in the U.S. just isn't quite there in terms of generating jobs right now,'' said Norman Black, a U.P.S. spokesman.
Industrial companies may wait to hire until early next year, after they have maximized productivity gains among current workers. ''Traditionally, when you come out of a down cycle, there's normally a fairly high reluctance to hire,'' said Scott R. Davis of Morgan Stanley. ''Investors and boards of directors don't want to see them hire people until business is 100 percent back.''
Some businesses are desperate to hire but just do not see the demand to justify it. Dan Cutillo, the owner of a string of pizza delivery shops near Toledo, said penny-pinching customers are not ordering as much. At one of his stores, he said, the staff is now half the size it was a year ago.
''I should be doing larger sales,'' Mr. Cutillo added. ''I should be hiring more people.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The economists Kenneth Rogoff and Carmen M. Reinhart wrote the book ''This Time Is Different,'' a history of economic crises. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY F. CALVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); EXISTING HOME SALES (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (71%); WRITERS (69%)

COMPANY: GLUSKIN SHEFF & ASSOCIATES INC (56%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (53%); AMAZON.COM INC (53%)

TICKER: GS (TSX) (56%); DAL (NYSE) (53%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



740 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Turkey Softens Antiterror Law That Jailed Hundreds of Kurdish Youths

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY; Yilmaz Akinci contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BATMAN, Turkey -- Berivan Sayaca, a vivacious 15-year-old Kurdish girl, dreamed of escaping her life as a seamstress and studying law. Instead, she was convicted of supporting terrorism by attending a protest rally and sentenced to nearly eight years behind bars.
This week, Berivan was released from prison about 10 months into her sentence. The move came after the Turkish Parliament, in an attempt to alleviate rising tensions with the Kurdish minority here in the southeast, passed a bill this month reducing the sentences of hundreds of youths, 18 and younger, who had been put on trial and nicknamed the ''stone-throwing kids.''
An estimated 40,000 people have died during the decades of conflict over national identity and land between Turkey and the separatist guerrilla group known as the Kurdistan Workers Party, or P.K.K. In recent years, many young Kurds have been accused of being terrorists, yet in some cases their only crime was to have attended a demonstration, chanted a slogan or thrown a stone.
After Berivan returned home this week to this poor, predominantly Kurdish city in Turkey's southeast, her emotional reunion captured by television stations across Turkey, she said her imprisonment had emboldened her resolve. 
''It was very hard to be in jail at my age,'' she said. ''But now I have my life back, and I still want to be a lawyer.''
The Turkish government is particularly edgy about the Kurdish issue now. In June, the P.K.K. ended a 14-month cease-fire, prompting a surge of attacks on the Turkish armed forces and undermining a recent attempt at outreach to the Kurds.
More than 80 Turkish soldiers have been killed this year by the P.K.K., which in the past has committed hundreds of attacks on civilians, including Kurds. Turkey, the United States and the European Union classify the P.K.K. as a terrorist organization. Some fear a return to the 1990s, when thousands of Kurdish villagers were driven from their homes.
The intensification of the violence coincided with the deadly clash between Israel and an aid flotilla to Gaza led by a Turkish organization, an event deeply resented by many of Turkey's estimated 12 million ethnic Kurds.
Many of them view their quest for self-determination through the prism of the Arab-Israeli conflict and bitterly accuse the Turkish government of championing the Palestinians and defending the militant group Hamas while turning its back on its own minorities.
''How dare Turkey send boats to Gaza and make friends with Hamas when its own house is on fire, when they are sending our kids to jail and we have no hope?'' Meryem Sayaca, Berivan's mother, said before the teenager's release. ''We empathize with the Palestinians, but are we not Muslims, too?''
Egemen Bagis, Turkey's minister for European Union affairs, said the governing Justice and Development Party had been seeking ways to improve the lives and rights of Kurds, including licensing a Kurdish-language television station, advocating Kurdish-language studies at universities and promoting Kurds' membership in Parliament.
But many Kurds debate the government's recent concessions or remain distrustful of them, and the efforts have also come under attack from opponents who fear that the moves may encourage terrorism.
Several members of the opposition in Parliament questioned the legal changes that led to Berivan's release and warned that the bill's supporters risked ending up with blood on their hands. Many youths fill the ranks of the P.K.K., including young female guerrillas, they argued.
''From now on, you are responsible for exploited minors and the people who are harmed by these minors,'' said Ridvan Yalcin of the Nationalist Movement Party, whose members stormed out of the meeting when the bill was being debated.
Hundreds of Kurdish children were imprisoned under a tough antiterrorism law, introduced in 2006, that equated protest activities like attending an illegal rally with being a member or supporter of a terrorist group, according to Berivan's lawyer, Reyhan Yalcindag, a leading human rights activist.
Berivan was jailed soon after her family moved last year from Istanbul to Batman, one of dozens of bleak cities in Turkey's impoverished southeast where high unemployment and illiteracy rates have made it a fertile recruitment ground for the P.K.K.
Like many young Kurdish girls, Berivan had left school for manual labor. On Oct. 9, she went to visit her aunt, but did not return home. Soon after, Berivan's mother said, the family heard she had been arrested after being seen at a pro-P.K.K. demonstration.
During her 30-minute trial, four months later, the main evidence produced by the prosecution was a photograph of her at the protest, a scarf pulled over her face. Berivan told her parents that she had accidentally stumbled onto the demonstration. But police officials in Batman said they had filmed her participating in the protest.
''Berivan was upset when I was fired from my job for speaking Kurdish,'' said her father, Selim Sayaca. ''But she is just a girl; she is not a terrorist.''
Last October, 34 Kurds, including 8 P.K.K. fighters, were allowed to return to Turkey from northern Iraq in what was viewed as a critical peace gesture on both sides. But their return prompted an angry public outcry when they traveled triumphantly across the southeast dressed as guerrillas and refused to renounce violence. The arrest of hundreds of Kurdish activists followed.
Nijat Yaruk, chairman of the main Kurdish political party in Diyarbakir, the southeastern city where Berivan was imprisoned, said the government had refused to allow Kurdish to be taught in the state schools or to approve any moves toward Kurdish autonomy.
Some historians say the modern Turkish republic, founded in the early 1920s, has long viewed the assertion of ethnic identity, Kurdish or otherwise, as a threat to unity.
The resumption of fighting here has sent the stone-throwing kids back into the streets, and on a recent day, hundreds of Kurdish children, some of them as young as 7, gathered in front of a mosque in Diyarbakir to await the return of the bodies of two P.K.K. guerrillas killed by the Turkish Army.
''Revenge! Revenge!'' they chanted, waiving illegal P.K.K. flags and wearing white sheets on their heads to avoid being identified by the police.
While such actions would have been enough in the past to convict a minor as a member of a terrorist organization, under the amendment to the 2006 law, minors caught at pro-P.K.K. demonstrations will no longer be charged with being members of a terrorist organization. Their cases will go to juvenile courts instead of courts that handle serious crimes.
With no education in prison, many newly freed young Kurds were re-entering society with psychological trauma and no skills, said Ms. Yalcindag, the human rights lawyer. Last year, she said, one of her clients, a 16-year-old Kurdish boy, hanged himself in his cell with a blanket.
Ali Oncel, 17, a vegetable seller who was arrested after attending a P.K.K.-sponsored demonstration in February and spent about five months in a jail before being released this month, said that prison had left him feeling despondent, isolated and angry.
''My only contact with the outside world was one room in the jail without a roof where you could see the sky,'' said Ali, the only breadwinner in his family of nine.
Asked whether he would now join the P.K.K., he paused and sighed.
''My friends in prison said they would get their revenge by going directly from prison to the mountains to fight,'' he said. ''I have to take care of my family. But if I didn't, I know what I would have to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Demonstrators wore sheets over their faces to avoid identification by the police as they awaited the bodies of Kurdish guerrillas at a rally this month in Diyarbakir, Turkey. (A4)
Meryem Sayaca with a photo of her daughter, Berivan, 15, convicted of supporting terrorism for attending a rally. She is now free.
 Left, a rally in Diyarbakir for Kurdish guerrillas, and a meeting of a group for mothers whose children have been killed or jailed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A9) MAP: The conflict with Kurds has claimed about 40,000 lives. (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (90%); TERRORISM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); HAMAS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (77%); PRISONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); MAY 2010 GAZA FLOTILLA RAID (68%); ARMED FORCES (63%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (63%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (51%); RELIGION (50%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



741 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: A Down Day Ahead of G.D.P. Report

BYLINE: By SUSANNA G. KIM

 BODY:
Markets fell Thursday amid lackluster economic reports and mixed earnings forecasts. Investors were also cautious as they awaited the government's release of the second-quarter gross domestic product figures.
The major indexes opened higher after some upbeat earnings reports from companies like Exxon Mobil and Sony.
But some analysts lowered their expectations for the gross domestic product report expected on Friday, a move that worried investors. In addition, James Bullard, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, warned that the Fed's current policies were putting the American economy at risk of becoming ''enmeshed in a Japanese-style deflationary outcome within the next several years.'' 
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 30.72 points, or 0.29 percent, to 10,467.16, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 4.60 points, or 0.42 percent, to 1,101.53. The Nasdaq composite index was down 12.87 points, or 0.57 percent, to 2,251.69.
''The market will be choppy until a package of economic data are emphatically positive,'' said Quincy Krosby, market strategist for Prudential Financial. ''The market is struggling between very solid numbers coming out from companies and macroeconomic data that have tended to be on the weaker side.''
After disappointing reports this week on consumer confidence and the sale of big-ticket factory products, Marisa L. DiNatale, an economist with Moody's Analytics, said her firm lowered its forecast for Friday's G.D.P. to 2 percent, 1 percent less than its forecast a few months ago. Most surveys estimate that the economy grew in the second quarter by about 2.5 percent.
Ms. DiNatale said that the continued weak employment picture and the fact that much of the federal stimulus spending had run its course contributed to the decision to lower the forecast.
''Businesses' earnings are doing well but they're investing and not hiring,'' she said. ''Hiring is still quite weak.''
Bruce E. McCain, chief investment strategist of Key Private Bank said he was in a ''wait and see'' mode for additional news this week.
Though Mr. McCain said he believed that G.D.P. growth would be lower than the revised first-quarter figure of 2.7 percent, he said the figure would not be ''inordinately disappointing'' because investor expectations had been contained.
Other economists pointed out that the numbers were looking back at the previous quarter, so investors might not give them as much weight.
''This market is looking ahead,'' said Ms. Krosby, who added that the G.D.P. estimate was not as crucial as other indicators. ''It's trying to decipher where we are headed, not where we are.''
While analysts said the current earnings season was stronger than expected, they have focused this quarter on guidance and on whether companies were increasing revenue. Traders have punished the stocks of companies that have provided weaker forecasts.
The graphics card maker Nvidia, for example, lowered its second-quarter forecast late Wednesday because of higher memory chip costs and weakening demand from Europe and China. It now expects revenue of $800 million to $820 million instead of the $950 million to $970 million it forecast earlier. Shares of Nvidia, whose second quarter ends Aug. 1, fell almost 10 percent on Thursday, to $9.13.
Akamai, the large Internet content delivery company, also had a lower than expected outlook for the third quarter despite beating earnings and revenue estimates for the second quarter. Shares of Akamai fell 12.9 percent.
C. Brett D'Arcy, chief investment officer at CBIZ Wealth Management Group, said that investors were particularly concerned about pessimistic reports after technology companies like Intel and Microsoft reported strong earnings.
''I think the expectations are just really high in that sector,'' Mr. D'Arcy said, adding that Nvidia had a good quarter ''but just tried to manage expectations and thought the next couple quarters would not be as strong.''
In the consumer sector, Colgate-Palmolive and the food giant Kellogg led shares lower. Colgate dropped 6.8 percent and Kellogg fell 6.9 percent after both companies lowered their forecasts for the rest of the year.
Before the markets opened, the Labor Department announced that weekly jobless claims fell 11,000, to 457,000, which was slightly more than forecast but not enough to sway traders.
''They really haven't budged from the 450,000 range,'' Ms. DiNatale said. ''They're well above what we would want them to be in an economic recovery.''
The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose slightly to 2.99 percent, from 2.98 percent. The price fell 1/32 to 104 10/32.
The euro continued to strengthen, trading above $1.30.
Crude oil prices also gained, rising $1.37, to $78.36 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); DEFLATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (72%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (55%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (58%); PRU (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (55%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (55%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



742 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: As Population Keeps Rising, Effects Vary By Region

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
With 267 people being born every minute and 108 dying, the world's population will top seven billion next year, a research group projects, while the ratio of working-age adults to support the elderly in developed countries declines precipitously because of lower birthrates and longer life spans. 
In a sobering assessment of those two trends, William P. Butz, president of the Population Reference Bureau, said that ''chronically low birthrates in developed countries are beginning to challenge the health and financial security of the elderly'' at the same time that ''developing countries are adding over 80 million to the population each year and the poorest of those countries are adding 20 million, exacerbating poverty and threatening the environment.''
Projections, especially over decades, are vulnerable to changes in immigration, retirement ages, birthrates, health care and other variables, but in releasing the bureau's 2010 population data sheet, Carl Haub, its senior demographer, estimated this week that by 2050 the planet will be home to more than nine billion people.
Even with a decline in birthrates in less developed countries from 6 children per woman in 1950 to 2.5 today (and to 2 children or less in Brazil, Chile, Cuba, Iran, Thailand and Turkey), the population of Africa is projected to at least double by midcentury to 2.1 billion. Asia will add an additional 1.3 billion.
While the United States, Australia, Canada and New Zealand will continue to grow because of higher birthrates and immigration, Europe, Japan and South Korea will shrink (although the recession reduced birthrates in the United States and Spain and slowed rising birthrates in Russia and Norway).
In Japan, the population of working-age people, typically defined as those 15 to 64, compared with the population 65 and older that is dependent on this younger group, is projected to decline to a ratio of one to one, from the current three to one. Worldwide, the ratio of working age people for every person in the older age group is expected to decline to four to one, from nine to one now.
Earlier this week, Eurostat, the statistical arm of the 27-nation European Union, reported that while the union's population topped a half billion this year, 900,000 of the 1.4 million growth from the year before resulted from immigration. Eurostat has predicted that deaths will outpace births in five years, a trend that has already occurred in Bulgaria, Latvia and Hungary.
While the bulge in younger people, if they are educated, presents a potential ''demographic dividend'' for countries like Bangladesh and Brazil, the shrinking proportion of working-age people elsewhere may place a strain on governments and lead them to raise retirement ages and to encourage alternative job opportunities for older workers.
Even in the United States, the proportion of the gross domestic product spent on Social Security and Medicare is projected to rise to 14.5 percent in 2050, from 8.4 percent this year.
The Population Reference Bureau said that by 2050, Russia and Japan would be bumped from the 10 most populous countries by Ethiopia and the Democratic Republic of Congo.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elderly bowlers in Arundel, England. In developed countries, the ratio of working-age people to elderly people is in decline. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS HELGREN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION SIZE (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); AGING (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); TRENDS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); OLDER WORKERS (77%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (77%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); RECESSION (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); IMMIGRATION (73%); RETIREMENT AGE (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); NORWAY (79%); SPAIN (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); ASIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CANADA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%); HUNGARY (69%); THAILAND (69%); ENGLAND (69%); LATVIA (54%); BULGARIA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



743 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Colombia Can Win Mexico's Drug War

BYLINE: By GUSTAVO A. FLORES-MACIAS. 
Gustavo A. Flores-Macias is an assistant professor of government and a research fellow at the Polson Institute for Global Development at Cornell.

 BODY:
Ithaca, N.Y.
BOTH the United States and Mexico have approached the war on Mexican drug cartels with Colombia in mind.
Washington's Merida Initiative, loosely modeled on its Plan Colombia antidrug campaign from a decade ago, provides Mexico with money for helicopters, police training and command-and-control technology. The Mexican government, meanwhile, has taken steps to modernize its judicial system, purge the police of corruption and improve intelligence services.
But according to a Government Accountability Office report released this summer, the billions of dollars spent by Mexico and the United States over the last four years have done little to thwart Mexico's cartels. 
The problem is that the two countries have ignored a fundamental lesson from the Colombian experience: foreign aid, security cooperation and judicial reform were necessary but not sufficient conditions for reducing violence. Plan Colombia succeeded because, at the same time that it stepped up its antidrug efforts, Colombia aggressively reformed its tax system and greatly improved government accountability. Unless Mexico can do the same, antidrug efforts there will fail.
Like Mexico, Colombia confronted a domestic security crisis that it could not afford to resolve without higher tax revenues. So it created a ''wealth tax'' directed at the country's richest taxpayers, earmarked to finance the security effort.
Then, realizing that the wealthy would tolerate increased taxes only if they believed the government was not squandering resources through corruption or inefficiency, President Alvaro Uribe mandated that security forces provide annual, publicly available reports on how money is spent and how effectively it is used.
Colombia also created a civilian Ministry of Defense, making the military accountable to democratically elected leaders. The new ministry put the armed services under a single chain of command directly responsible to the president and developed a cadre of experienced civil servants.
These steps quickly led to a steadier stream of funds devoted to antidrug efforts, more reliable security forces and, most important, strong public support. As a result, Colombia has made significant strides in fighting drug traffickers, guerrillas and paramilitaries: since Mr. Uribe's election in 2002, coca production has decreased by a third, kidnappings have dropped by 90 percent and murders have fallen significantly.
Mexico stands to learn a valuable lesson from Colombia's experience. At 11 percent of its gross domestic product, Mexico's tax collection capacity ranks among the lowest in Latin American countries -- compared, for example, with Brazil's 23 percent. Without increased tax revenues, its antidrug efforts will not be sustainable.
Mexico's security apparatus is also one of the most outdated in the hemisphere. Like pre-reform Colombia, it lacks a civilian minister of defense and civilian experts on military affairs, and so there is a lack of accountability and public support for the antidrug effort. Mexico desperately needs to reform its security agencies, something the United States can facilitate by providing technical assistance to strengthen Mexico's judicial and security institutions.
There is no reason Mexico can't follow Colombia's lead -- and every reason it should, as soon as possible. President Felipe Calderon, who has just two years before his term-limited presidency comes to an end, hails from the right-of-center, pro-business National Action Party, putting him in a strong position to sell tax increases to the wealthy.
Moreover, neither of the country's other two leading parties, the centrist Institutional Revolutionary Party and the left-leaning Democratic Revolutionary Party, shares President Calderon's tough stance against drug cartels. This means that Mr. Calderon's successor is unlikely to undertake major reforms.
Mr. Uribe's reforms didn't bring the Colombian drug crisis to an end overnight. But over time, they enabled the government to get the upper hand against the cartels. And for a country as deep in crisis as Mexico, they offer a clear path forward.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUG POLICY (91%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (86%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); CARTELS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); CORRUPTION (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); TAX INCREASES (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (70%); HELICOPTERS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%)

PERSON: ALVARO URIBE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (99%); COLOMBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); BRAZIL (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



744 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'THE EXTRA MAN'; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Charming Socialites, Although Palm Beach Is Still Out of Reach

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
In ''The Extra Man,'' a whimsical, screwball ode to urban eccentricity, Kevin Kline and Paul Dano, as unlikely roommates in a shabby apartment on Manhattan's Upper East Side, play out a comic pas de deux. The movie, directed by Robert Pulcini and Shari Springer Berman (the team who achieved critical glory with ''American Splendor,'' then slipped with ''The Nanny Diaries''), shows few of the familiar signposts of contemporary Manhattan. The wispy tale of Louis Ives (Mr. Dano), a shy, inhibited young man who loses his job as a New Jersey prep school teacher and moves to New York with hopes of becoming a novelist, was adapted for the screen from a Jonathan Ames novel by the directors in collaboration with the author. 
Arriving in New York, Louis, who lives in a literary dream world of F. Scott Fitzgerald (''The Great Gatsby'' looms large), rents a room in the East 90s apartment of Henry Harrison (Mr. Kline), an impecunious bachelor, 40 years his senior, with grand, aristocratic airs. Unemployed but calling himself a playwright, Henry is a hustler of sorts who devotes much of his energy to courting and squiring rich, older, unattached women to social and cultural events. A continuing quest is to secure an invitation to Palm Beach for the social season.
Mr. Kline has established a virtual monopoly on the kind of male character whose suave, devil-may-care urbanity was once the province of actors like David Niven. A down-at-the-heels dandy who squandered his inherited fortune and now lives hand to mouth, he is a spiritual cousin of Cole Porter, whom Mr. Kline gracefully portrayed in ''De-Lovely,'' the otherwise execrable Porter screen biography.
But unlike Porter, who was gay, Henry is an asexual gadabout and throwback to the age of ''the confirmed bachelor.'' He's an outspoken misogynist and opera buff whose morning fitness routine is a flouncing dance improvised to loud classical music. He bluntly admits his sexual views are ''to the right of the Pope,'' and rues the day women were admitted to all-male colleges. But Mr. Kline imbues Henry with an unquenchable gaiety (in the old-fashioned sense of the word) that makes him weirdly endearing.
Henry proudly belongs to the second or third tier of Manhattan's ''walkers'': cultivated, gossipy, often gay men who accompany wealthy socialites to openings and dinner parties. But this is not the 1980s Jerry Zipkin world of boldface names and their escorts. The women are simply rich and in need of company, and not very interesting.
The movie's edgiest encounters reveal exactly how controlling and self-aware these grandes dames are, despite their dependence on male companionship. Escorting them looks like dreary, hard work without the perk of vicarious connection with the highest reaches of society.
It is a strangely (and unbelievably) libido-free climate in which the rivalries for proximity to the high life don't involve erotic flirtation. Vivian, the queen bee of Henry's circle, is portrayed by the magnificent Marian Seldes with just the right mixture of imperiousness and charm, but her role is much too small.
Henry is a bundle of tics. His socks are so threadbare that he paints his legs slightly above the ankle to disguise the holes. He drives a battered old car that is on the verge of collapse. One of his earliest demonstrations to Louis is how to get into the opera for nothing, although I'm not at all sure it would work if you tried it. Another lesson is how to urinate on the street without being detected.
Louis, in his less flamboyant way, is even more of a flake than Henry. He has fantasies of cross-dressing that he can barely bring himself to explore. His encounter with a dominatrix who vigorously spanks him isn't what he imagined. Later, when he is made up and dressed as a woman, he is horrified by the image he faces in the mirror.
At his job for an environmental journal, he timidly pursues Mary (Katie Holmes), an attractive co-worker and devout vegan with a fanatical determination to leave the lightest carbon footprint possible. Mr. Dano takes a role that most actors would milk for cruel, farcical yuks and imbues it with a dreamy tenderness.
The world of ''The Extra Man'' is a sealed hothouse in which everybody is an oddball. Occasionally it suggests a much more fey, outre answer to Wes Anderson's ''Royal Tenenbaums.'' A glaring false note is injected by the usually reliable John C. Reilly, with his buffoonish portrayal of Henry's downstairs, shaggy-haired neighbor Gershon, a subway mechanic who speaks in a falsetto. This character throws off the delicate chemistry of a movie whose comedy, fleeting as it is, is dependent on tone and timing. For all its flighty charms, ''The Extra Man'' never really lands. It hovers like a hummingbird madly beating its wings to stay aloft.
''The Extra Man'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It has sexual situations and cross-dressing.
THE EXTRA MAN
Opens on Friday in New York and Los Angeles.
Directed by Robert Pulcini and Shari Springer Berman; written by Mr. Pulcini, Jonathan Ames and Ms. Berman, based on the novel by Mr. Ames; director of photography, Terry Stacey; edited by Mr. Pulcini; music by Klaus Badelt; production designer, Judy Becker; costumes by Suttirat Larlarb; produced by Anthony Bregman and Stephanie Davis; released by Magnolia Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes.
WITH: Paul Dano (Louis Ives), Kevin Kline (Henry Harrison), Katie Holmes (Mary), John C. Reilly (Gershon), John Pankow (George), Celia Weston (Lagerfeld), Patti D'Arbanville (Katherine), Lynn Cohen (Lois), Marian Seldes (Vivian), Dan Hedaya (Aresh) and Jason Butler Harner (Otto Bellman).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul Dano, left, and Kevin Kline play impoverished and unlikely roommates on the Upper East Side in ''The Extra Man.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAGNOLIA PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); MEN (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); LITERATURE (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (62%); THEATER (57%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: Extra Man, The (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



745 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Amid Celebrity, a Long Legal Battle Over a Child

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM and VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
The initial public offering of SKS Microfinace has been well chronicled by the news media in India, where the company's founder, Vikram Akula, an Indian-American, has become a celebrity. 
Time magazine put him on its list of the world's 100 most influential people in 2006, and he was named one of the World Economic Forum's ''young global leaders'' in 2008.
Not all of the attention has been flattering, though. The disclosures section of the I.P.O. prospectus refers to a long personal court battle involving Mr. Akula.
For nearly eight years, he has been embroiled in a custody dispute with his Indian-American ex-wife, Malini Byanna, a lawyer based in Chicago, over their son. The boy, Tejas, now 9, currently lives with his father in Hyderabad, India.
An Illinois court awarded Ms. Byanna custody of Tejas in 2002. In a case now pending in the Illinois appellate court, Ms. Byanna has argued that Mr. Akula has improperly held the boy since last year, when he opened custody proceedings in Indian court. At the time Mr. Akula was caring for Tejas, Ms. Byanna was undergoing surgery in the United States.
Mr. Akula's lawyers assert that American and Indian courts have granted him temporary custody until legal cases in both countries are resolved.
Ms. Byanna, who says she has lost her home and owes $600,000 to creditors because of legal costs, recently filed a complaint with Indian securities regulators, contending that that the SKS I.P.O. prospectus omits important information about the custody dispute -- including, the complaint says, that the State Department has referred to the case as one of ''international parental child abduction.''
John Echard, spokesman for the State Department's bureau of consular affairs, said Thursday, ''A child is still being retained abroad, and Ms. Byanna, who has sole legal and physical custody of him, determined by an Illinois court, is still unable to exercise her custodial and parental rights.''
Told of Mr. Echard's statement, Michael DiDomenico, a lawyer for Mr. Akula in Chicago, countered, ''The U.S. State Department has never requested information about this case, nor has it ever given Mr. Akula notice about their opinion.''
In a July 14 hearing in Chicago, Mr. Akula's lawyers appealed a lower court's decision that India lacked jurisdiction to award Mr. Akula custody. Patrick J. Quinn, an Illinois appellate court justice, said, ''This is not a kidnapping,'' but he added that the child remained in India in defiance of court orders in the United States.
The Illinois court is expected to issue a final ruling on the jurisdiction question next month. The case is also pending in India's Supreme Court.
Mr. Akula, in an e-mail response to questions about the custody battle, declined to comment beyond saying, ''My focus is -- and has always been -- on doing what's in the best interest of my son.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vikram Akula in January at the World Economic Forum. He said his focus was ''what's in the best interest of my son.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RATCLIFFE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); FAMILY LAW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (75%); JURISDICTION (75%); LAWYERS (75%); PARENTAL DUTIES & RIGHTS (74%); PARENTAL KIDNAPPING (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (64%); SECURITIES LAW (64%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (63%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (63%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (53%)

COMPANY: SKS MICROFINANCE LTD (92%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (83%)

TICKER: SKSMICRO (NSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (92%)

PERSON: PAT QUINN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



746 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Confusion on Where City Students Stand

BYLINE: By SHARON OTTERMAN

 BODY:
For years, parents, voters and students themselves were told that the New York City public schools were improving all the time.
The proof was in the numbers: only 57 percent of students were passing state math tests in 2006, and by last year that statistic was 82 percent -- an achievement once deemed unthinkable for the nation's largest school system.
But on Wednesday, the veil was lifted with the release of 2010 test results that state officials said was a more accurate picture of students' abilities, and experts and educators were left to wonder exactly how much the city's schools had improved during the last decade. 
The results, which showed just 43 percent of public school students in New York City passing their English exams this year and 54 percent in math, have left the city with math and English proficiency rates lower than they had been in 2006, when the state last overhauled grade school testing.
The average city student this year answered about the same number of questions correctly as last year, but state education officials said that the number required to pass the tests, or show proficiency, had been set too low before this year.
Because of the shifting definition of the word ''proficiency'' in the state, experts assessing the situation on Thursday said there was no clear answer to the bottom-line question on the minds of many New Yorkers: Is student performance actually stronger now than it was eight years ago, when the schools came under the control of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg?
''Things are getting better,'' said Daniel Koretz, a Harvard professor whose research helped lead the state to the current changes. ''They are just not getting better anywhere nearly as fast as the state scores led us to believe.''
Robert Tobias, a professor at New York University who once directed assessment for city schools, took a more sanguine view. ''It is impossible to tell what percentage of the gains were illusory,'' he said. ''At best, we can say that these new scores are a pretty good estimate of the way schools and pupils are performing now.''
Deciphering where the schools are now rests heavily, experts agreed, on a standardized test that is seen as a national gold standard, the National Assessment of Educational Progress, or NAEP.
The proficiency percentages of New York City school children on that test are dauntingly low, as they are for the nation as a whole. Just 22 percent of the city's eighth graders and just 29 percent of the city's fourth graders are proficient in reading.
There have been improvements in the city's NAEP scores since 2003, particularly in fourth-grade math, though eighth-grade reading has shown no improvement. But even with the significant fourth-grade gains, only 35 percent of city fourth-grade students are proficient in math, according to NAEP data.
By those standards, even the results of the new, tougher state test scores seem high. And by the same token, experts who were watching the state test said they were not surprised when it was revealed that there had been significant inflation on an exam that years ago parted ways with the national standard as a measure of performance.
''A lot of the trend toward increasing test scores was not attributable to gains in actual student learning,'' Mr. Tobias said. ''There were a number of factors, the growth of test prep, the narrowing of the curriculum, the predictability of the tests.''
City officials point to a number of variables to show that there has been real improvement in city schools. The graduation rate has been rising at 2 percent to 4 percent a year. The number of students entering city and state colleges has been growing. Though a majority of students enrolled in two-year associate degree programs at community colleges still need to take remedial classes, that number has been falling.
''We know there has been significant progress, and we know we have a long way to go,'' said Shael Polakow-Suransky, the chief accountability officer for the Education Department.
The usefulness of test scores is not just a matter of perception. In New York City, they are used to decide who is promoted to the next grade and who must first attend summer school, which teachers and principals receive bonuses and, now, which teachers will earn tenure.
Mr. Polakow-Suransky defended the city's use of the state tests as the cornerstone of its accountability measures, pointing out that he was aware of no credible research calling the city's rising graduation rates into question. The city, he emphasized, measured the progress of students against other comparable students, insulating it somewhat from the variability of the tests, and would do even more such comparison work in the future.
That will be a balm for experts who complained that the real problem with the new scores was that the tests were carrying too much importance as indicators of progress.
The new results, Mr. Tobias said, ''are vindication for every cautious critic who has warned against using the test for accountability purposes.''
Aaron M. Pallas, a professor of sociology and education at Teachers College at Columbia University, said, ''I think the message is: We just really can't trust the state tests for judging whether the quality of education in New York City has really improved.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



747 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: A Brigantine Beneath Washington Street

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
The 18th-century vessel unearthed two weeks ago in Lower Manhattan has begun to emerge from the mist of history.
She was most likely a brigantine; the two-masted workhorse of the coastal trade, ranging perhaps from New England (where she might have picked up lumber needed by an ever-growing New York City) as far south as Barbados (from which she would have carried sugar and molasses to feed a growing population).
''It's one of the ships that helped build New York,'' Warren Riess, an archaeologist specializing in marine history, told the board of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation on Thursday. 
Not that Dr. Riess would stoop to such an analogy, but it might be likened to an archaeologist of the future digging up an Econoline van rather than a rare Bugatti: nothing to fire the most romantic imaginings, but plenty to edify anyone who hoped to understand day-to-day life and commerce.
After the briefing, Dr. Riess hurried from the corporation office at 1 Liberty Plaza back to the excavation site at Washington and Liberty Streets. And Avi Schick, the chairman of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, said, ''How fantastic it is that those who are building the New York of the 21st century were the ones who uncovered this artifact, that represents those who were building the New York of the 18th century.''
Dr. Riess based some of his preliminary conclusions - and he emphasized that any inferences were tentative - from the opportunity he and his colleagues have had to study the vessel as they disassembled it this week.
What prompted him to suppose the ship was a brigantine were its overall dimensions, he said. The front section of the ship, all that remains, is 32 feet long. Dr. Riess said further investigation might disclose that the vessel was a small three-masted ship or even a large schooner.
The disassembly should be finished Friday, Dr. Riess said. The forensic work will then shift to the Maryland Archaeological Conservation Laboratory.
What was a sodden mess two weeks ago looked more and more like a ship in recent days, with the exposure of the lowermost hull. This allowed Dr. Riess, of the Darling Marine Center at the University of Maine and archaeologists from the AKRF firm to see how honeycombed and worm-eaten the wood was, bolstering speculation that the ship's sorry final lot was to be used as landfill around the turn of the 19th century.
The World Trade Center vessel does not seem to have been built to cross the ocean, Dr. Riess said. There is no caulking between the lowermost floor planks, as one would expect of a ship stiffened to withstand a buffeting on the high seas. Nor does she seem to have been built as a slave ship. She would have been too heavy for the trade in human beings, which Dr. Riess said typically demanded a swifter vessel to transport - in the dreadful calculation of the time - a highly perishable cargo.
But that is not to say she was crudely built. Her ribs, known formally as square frames, seem to be bowed as elegantly as harps. However, they are in fact made of a series of beveled straight edges, so the planking could be tightly fastened. (There would otherwise be a gap between a flat plank and a curved rib.)
Dr. Riess's face lit up as he imagined the sawyer who would have produced such fine work, going from shipyard to shipyard with a big, two-handled saw to practice his specialty. ''These ships were built by the best technicians and engineers of their time,'' he said.
Perhaps it was the sawyer's clay pipe that archaeologists found this week under the floor planks. The stem is gone but the evidence left of the bowl suggests it was well used. ''This was somebody's favorite pipe,'' Dr. Riess said.
The World Trade Center vessel already has lessons to teach marine historians. For instance, Dr. Riess said, he has found far more iron nails than he would have expected of a ship from this era, and far fewer of the wood fasteners called treenails, or trunnels.
What makes the vessel so valuable, Dr. Riess said, is that it is a unique example of a common, utilitarian type. The fact that it was a workhorse, not a flagship, may forever foreclose any effort to discern its name.
But by the time the investigation is over, few 18th-century ships will have been subject to as much scrutiny. Besides overseeing the conservation and preservation of the vessel, the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation also announced on Thursday that 360-degree views of the excavation can now be seen by the public, even as the ship is being packed up for its journey to Maryland.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 13, 2010

 CORRECTION:
A picture on July 30 with an article about the unearthing of what is believed to be an 18th-century brigantine in Lower Manhattan was published in error. It showed an example of a brig, which has two square-rigged masts -- not a brigantine, on which only the front mast is typically square-rigged. A reader raised the issue in an e-mail message at the time the article was published, but the error was confirmed only after extensive research and much debate -- as explained in a corrective article on Page A25 today.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A laser scan of the 18th-century ship unearthed at the World Trade Center site shows the 32-foot-long bow section. Dark circles indicate the laser scanners. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CORINTHIAN DATA CAPTURE, LLC)
Warren Riess, left, an archaeologist, passes a plank from the ship to Nicole Doub of the Maryland Archaeological Conservation Laboratory. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 An example of a brigantine, the type of ship that the vessel found in Lower Manhattan is believed to be. Brigantines were stalwarts of the coastal trade. (PHOTOGRAPH BY A.K.R.F.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHAEOLOGY (92%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); FORENSICS (62%); LANDFILLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (87%); MAINE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); BARBADOS (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



748 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Fraud Charges For 2 Brothers Worth Billions

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Samuel and Charles Wyly, the billionaire brothers from Dallas who are large donors to philanthropies and to conservative causes, were charged Thursday with conducting an extensive securities fraud that the Securities and Exchange Commission said reaped $550 million in undisclosed gains.
The brothers, who founded Sterling Software, a business software and services company that they sold for $4 billion in stock to the software company CA in 2000, were also charged with insider trading violations from which they profited by more than $31 million, the S.E.C. said 
The civil charges, coming just two weeks after the S.E.C. reached a $550 million settlement with Goldman Sachs, are part of a concerted effort by the commission to focus more sharply on prominent enforcement cases.
The agency came under fierce attack after the financial crisis of 2007-8 for failing to uncover fraudulent activity in the mortgage securities markets and for missing chances to halt the Ponzi scheme operated by Bernard L. Madoff.
The Wyly brothers are in many ways a study in contrasts, paradigms of self-made billionaires who for years have fought investigations into suspected tax dodges by the offshore trusts that the S.E.C. claims they controlled.
Samuel E. Wyly, 75, and Charles J. Wyly Jr., 76, who through a lawyer called the charges ''without merit,'' have given millions of dollars to Republican candidates and organizations, but Sam Wyly this year was also named one of the world's 10 ''greenest'' billionaires by Forbes magazine.
The S.E.C. case, which was filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan, centers on charges of securities fraud and insider trading related to the shares of companies founded by the Wyly bothers or where they served as directors or executives. They include the retail craft chain Michaels Stores, Sterling Software, Sterling Commerce and Scottish Annuity and Life Holdings.
The ill-gotten gains, according to the S.E.C., were used to buy tens of millions of dollars of art, collectibles and jewelry; $100 million of real estate, including two ranches in Aspen, Colo., and a 100-acre horse farm near Dallas; and for charitable contributions, including $10 million to the business school at Samuel Wyly's alma mater, the University of Michigan.
The charges are the result of a six-year investigation that began in 2004 when Bank of America reported to the S.E.C. that it had terminated numerous accounts held in the name of companies based in the Isle of Man because it could not determine who actually owned the companies.
The S.E.C. found that those companies, and similar entities registered in the Cayman Islands, were registered as trusts over which the Wylys said they had no formal control. But in fact, the S.E.C. charged, the brothers directed nearly all the investment activity in the trusts, selling hundreds of millions of dollars in shares without following S.E.C. disclosure rules governing stock ownership and trading by company insiders.
Through a lawyer, the Wylys said that they believed the charges were ''a misapplication of the law'' and that they had conducted all of their activities on the basis of accounting and legal advice that they received.
''They have never been given any reason to believe the financial transactions in question were anything other than legal and fully appropriate,'' said William A. Brewer III, a partner at the Dallas law firm of Bickel & Brewer who is lead counsel for the Wylys. The brothers ''expect to be fully vindicated,'' he said.
Also charged in connection with the case were a lawyer for the Wylys, Michael C. French of Dallas, and a stockbroker, Louis J. Schaufele III, also of Dallas.
Lawyers representing Mr. French and Mr. Schaufele did not immediately respond to phone calls seeking comment.
The S.E.C. can bring only civil actions, but the brothers have previously been reported to be under criminal investigation for actions related to their investment activities. Lorin L. Reisner, the deputy director of the S.E.C.'s enforcement division, declined to comment on whether the commission had referred its current findings to the Justice Department or other law enforcement agencies.
The S.E.C. claimed that a scheme of undisclosed investments and securities sales took place over 13 years and involved three-quarters of a billion dollars in stock. As longtime executives and directors of public companies, the S.E.C. said that the Wylys knew or should have known their obligations as the owners of more than 5 percent of the stock of several companies.
S.E.C. regulations require that holders of more than 5 percent of a company's stock disclose that fact, and that company directors and executives report any and all sales or purchases of shares. Though they claimed to own only small stakes in their companies, the S.E.C. charged that they owned from 16 percent to 36 percent of the four companies named in the complaint.
Many investors track stock sales by company insiders because they believe that can provide clues to a company's prospects; if well-informed company insiders are selling, investors might conclude that a company's financial position is weakening.
''By concealing that the entities making the sales were under the control of the Wylys, other investors paid inflated prices for the shares they sold,'' Mr. Reisner said.
If the S.E.C. is successful in proving all of its allegations, it could result in one of the biggest judgments ever in a securities fraud case. The commission is seeking disgorgement of the $550 million in gains and prejudgment interest and financial penalties.
Unlike some billionaires who maintain a cloak of privacy around their private lives, the Wylys maintain their own Web site extolling their business history, philanthropic activities and other interests.
They have been, at times, similarly open about their political affiliations. In 2000, Sam Wyly was a principal contributor to Republicans for Clean Air, a group that bought ads extolling then-Gov. George W. Bush's environmental record and criticizing the record of Senator John McCain.
Four years later, the Wyly brothers were substantial contributors to the Swift Boat campaign that raised questions about the war record of Senator John Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat who was running for president against President Bush.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Samuel, left, and Charles Wyly, have been big donors to Republican candidates. (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); INSIDER TRADING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); PONZI SCHEMES (77%); LITIGATION (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (72%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (72%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); SEWING & CRAFT STORES (67%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (61%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (57%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); SCOTTISH ANNUITY & LIFE INSURANCE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (92%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (53%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ISLE OF MAN (79%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



749 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: G.M.'s Electric Lemon

BYLINE: By EDWARD NIEDERMEYER. 
Edward Niedermeyer is the editor of the Web site The Truth About Cars.

 BODY:
Portland, Ore.
GENERAL MOTORS introduced America to the Chevrolet Volt at the 2007 Detroit Auto Show as a low-slung concept car that would someday be the future of motorized transportation. It would go 40 miles on battery power alone, promised G.M., after which it would create its own electricity with a gas engine. Three and a half years -- and one government-assisted bankruptcy later -- G.M. is bringing a Volt to market that makes good on those two promises. The problem is, well, everything else.
For starters, G.M.'s vision turned into a car that costs $41,000 before relevant tax breaks ... but after billions of dollars of government loans and grants for the Volt's development and production. And instead of the sleek coupe of 2007, it looks suspiciously similar to a Toyota Prius. It also requires premium gasoline, seats only four people (the battery runs down the center of the car, preventing a rear bench) and has less head and leg room than the $17,000 Chevrolet Cruze, which is more or less the non-electric version of the Volt. 
In short, the Volt appears to be exactly the kind of green-at-all-costs car that some opponents of the bailout feared the government might order G.M. to build. Unfortunately for this theory, G.M. was already committed to the Volt when it entered bankruptcy. And though President Obama's task force reported in 2009 that the Volt ''will likely be too expensive to be commercially successful in the short term,'' it didn't cancel the project.
Nor did the government or G.M. decide to sell the Volt at a loss, which, paradoxically, might have been the best hope for making it profitable. Consider the Prius. Back in 1997, Toyota began selling the high-tech, first-of-its-kind car in Japan for about $17,000, even though each model cost $32,000 to build.
By taking a loss on the first several years of Prius production, Toyota was able to hold its price steady, and then sell the gas-sippers in huge numbers when oil prices soared. Today a Prius costs roughly the same in inflation-adjusted dollars as those 1997 models did, and it has become the best-selling Toyota in the United States after the evergreen Camry and Corolla.
Instead of following Toyota's model, G.M. decided to make the Volt more affordable by offering a $350-a-month lease over 36 months. But that offer allows only 12,000 miles per year, or about 33 miles per day. Assuming you charged your Volt every evening, giving you 40 miles of battery power, and wanted to keep below the mileage limit, you would rarely use its expensive range-extending gas engine. No wonder the Volt's main competition, the Nissan Leaf, forgoes the additional combustion engine -- and ends up costing $8,000 less as a result.
In the industry, some suspect that G.M. and the Obama administration decided against selling the Volt at a loss because they want the company to appear profitable before its long-awaited initial stock offering, which is likely to take place next month. For taxpayers, that approach might have made sense if the government planned on selling its entire 61 percent stake in G.M. But the administration has said it will sell only enough equity in the public offering to relinquish its controlling stake in G.M. Thus the government will remain exposed to the company's (and the Volt's) long-term fate.
So the future of General Motors (and the $50 billion taxpayer investment in it) now depends on a vehicle that costs $41,000 but offers the performance and interior space of a $15,000 economy car. The company is moving forward on a second generation of Volts aimed at eliminating the initial model's considerable shortcomings. (In truth, the first-generation Volt was as good as written off inside G.M., which decided to cut its 2011 production volume to a mere 10,000 units rather than the initial plan for 60,000.) Yet G.M. seemingly has no plan for turning its low-volume ''eco-flagship'' into a mass-market icon like the Prius.
Quantifying just how much taxpayer money will have been wasted on the hastily developed Volt is no easy feat. Start with the $50 billion bailout (without which none of this would have been necessary), add $240 million in Energy Department grants doled out to G.M. last summer, $150 million in federal money to the Volt's Korean battery supplier, up to $1.5 billion in tax breaks for purchasers and other consumer incentives, and some significant portion of the $14 billion loan G.M. got in 2008 for ''retooling'' its plants, and you've got some idea of how much taxpayer cash is built into every Volt.
In the end, making the bailout work -- whatever the cost -- is the only good reason for buying a Volt. The car is not just an environmental hair shirt (a charge leveled at the Prius early in its existence), it is an act of political self-denial as well.
If G.M. were honest, it would market the car as a personal donation for, and vote of confidence in, the auto bailout. Unfortunately, that's not the kind of cross-branding that will make the Volt a runaway success.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHIP WASS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); CONCEPT CARS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (64%); PRICE INCREASES (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%) OREGON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



750 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: The Growth Imperative

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
We could be in for a long, slow decade. There's a confluence of forces that are probably going to retard economic vitality.
Consumers are still overindebted, and it will take years of curtailed spending before households are back on a sustainable path. Federal and state governments also will have to pull back. Labor markets were ill before the recession and are worse now.
Our trading partners in Europe and Japan are stagnant or in peril. Banks in this country are not lending to small businesses and banks elsewhere have huge write-downs to endure. The psychological war between business and the Obama administration also is taking a toll. Business types think the administration is stuffed with clueless professors. Some administration officials think corporate honchos are free-market hypocrites prowling for corporate welfare. 
What we have is not just a cycle but a condition. We could look back on the period between 1980 and 2006 as the long boom and the period between 2007 and 2014 or so as the nasty crawl.
Politically, this period could be akin to the late-1970s. Economic anxiety could produce good and bad ideological effusions. As the economy stutters, people will ask fundamental questions about the nature of our political-economic structures and come up with grand proposals to revive growth. The electorate could shift in ways hard to imagine.
In my previous column, I tried to imagine what a moderate Democratic growth agenda would look like. You could call it the Moon Shot Approach. In this approach, government tries to spur economic development first by creating the context for growth with a big infrastructure program and then by focusing subsidies and tax credits on key sectors, like energy research.
The Republicans have their own growth agenda. You could call it the Unleash America Approach. The underlying worldview was deftly sketched out in Arthur C. Brooks's book, ''The Battle: How the Fight Between Free Enterprise and Big Government Will Shape America's Future.''
Brooks (no relation) argues that Americans are a uniquely entrepreneurial people. A nation of immigrants, ''America's vast success might be explained in part by our genetic predisposition to embrace risks with potentially explosive rewards.''
Citing an array of polling data, Brooks argues that 70 percent of Americans embraces this free-market and entrepreneurial vision of their country. But 30 percent prefers a more government-centric, European-style vision. The battle, Brooks concludes, is between the 70 percent, trying to reclaim the country, and the 30 percent, which is now expanding the federal role on an array of fronts.
Paul Ryan, the most intellectually ambitious Republican in Congress, lavishly cites Brooks's book. Over the past few years, Ryan has been promoting a roadmap to comprehensively reform the nation's tax and welfare system. On the tax side, he would sweep away most of the special-interest-favoring tax credits and subsidies and give people a chance to join a simple tax system with only two rates.
On the welfare-state side, he'd sweep away most subsidies to the middle and upper classes, like the tax exemption on employee health plans. He'd essentially voucherize federal benefits, like health care and Social Security, and increase federal subsidies for people down the income scale.
The idea would be to end the complex and sclerotic arrangements and solve the fiscal crisis. The effect would be to radically reduce the power of federal policy makers and shift discretion (and risks) onto individuals.
Both the Democratic and Republican approaches have problems. The Moon Shot Approach relies on omniscient experts to pick out the engines of future growth and on public-spirited legislators to pass bills that maximize productivity instead of special-interest favors. The weakness of the Brooks and Ryan approach is that their sociology is off a bit. America is not a nation of risk -- embracing pioneers. It is a nation of heroic bourgeois families who want to thrive within a secure social order. The economic debate is not as Manichaean as the culture war since most people are split down the middle and because it's easier to compromise on money than on life.
Still, these two visions are better than the nativist and antiglobalist visions that will be arising. And despite the tough battle talk, they are combinable. At his best, Ryan wants to cleanse and rejuvenate the nation -- to sweep away the special-interest sclerosis that strangles flexibility and growth. At his best, Obama wants to create a context for innovation -- to employ blue-collar workers and to spur growth clusters like Silicon Valley, which, let us remember, was a magical cocktail of federal research subsidies, hippie culture, entrepreneurial daring and university settings.
The two projects are in tension, but in a sane political culture they are not mutually exclusive. It should be possible to simplify the tax code, target welfare spending and also build strong infrastructure at the same time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); RECESSION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); TAX LAW (70%); TAX INCENTIVES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (56%); ENERGY RESEARCH (50%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (69%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



751 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Plan to Build Development In Flushing Is Approved

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg won a victory for his development agenda on Thursday when the City Council approved a plan to build hundreds of apartments and thousands of square feet of office and retail space in the heart of Flushing, Queens, one of the city's most densely populated neighborhoods.
The decision -- in a 44-to-2 vote, with 5 abstentions -- came on the same day that the Council approved a $1.5 billion plan for a residential development at the site of the former Domino Sugar refinery in Brooklyn. The dual approvals give new life to Mr. Bloomberg's agenda, which suffered a stinging blow in February when the Council rejected a plan for a mall at the old Kingsbridge Armory in the Bronx. 
The Queens project, called Flushing Commons, faced hardly any questions from council members, in large part because the councilman who represents the area supported the plan.
But Flushing's Korean merchants, who opposed the project as a threat to their survival because of its scope and the disruption that construction would cause, condemned the vote. The project would include about 600 apartments, 420,000 square feet of commercial space, a hotel and a Y on a site where a municipal parking lot has stood for decades.
The lot occupies five acres and is surrounded primarily by small businesses owned by Koreans, who, along with Chinese immigrants, rescued the neighborhood's commercial center after the city's financial crisis in the 1970s. The Korean business owners fear that the temporary loss of parking will lead many of their customers to shop elsewhere.
''We are collateral damage to the mayor's big development,'' said Ikhwan Rim, co-president of the Union Street Small Business Association, which counts among its members most of the merchants around the site.
The Bloomberg administration has set aside $2.25 million to assist business owners affected by construction. The total was increased by $250,000 after a Council subcommittee delayed its vote on the proposal on Tuesday, hinting that some members were inclined to reject it.
The money will pay for a marketing campaign to promote the business district and a program that would offer free or discounted parking to people who shop there. The city says it has also arranged for parking to replace spaces lost to construction. Some of the replacement spaces are close by, and others are about a 10-minute walk away.
In addition, the city persuaded the developers to cap parking rates for five years after Flushing Commons is finished. Rob Goldrich, a senior adviser to the city's deputy mayor for economic development, said parking would cost about $2 for the first hour and about $1 for each additional hour, for up to four hours. The cost for an hour of parking at the existing municipal lot is $1.
The local councilman, Peter Koo, a Chinese immigrant who owns six drugstores in the area, said the goal was to ''protect local merchants, who are so important to the community.''
A builder from Flushing, TDC Development and Construction, and another from Manhattan, the Rockefeller Group Development Corporation, have pledged to spend $850 million on the project. Construction is expected to last three years.
The only council members who voted against the project were Brad Lander of Brooklyn and Gale A. Brewer of Manhattan, who wanted more than 140 housing units to be set aside for low-income families.
Mr. Koo and Mr. Bloomberg met Thursday night for a celebratory dinner at Ah Ree Soo, a Korean restaurant on Flushing's Main Street. The gathering underscores the importance of the project, which the mayor characterized as ''a major milestone in our efforts to position Flushing for long-term economic growth.''
Still, questions remain about the impact that Flushing Commons and a similar development proposed for Willets Point would have on the No. 7 subway line, which is stretched to near capacity during peak hours. There are no plans for improvements on the Queens end of the line, and there likely will be none for a while.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); SUGAR MFG (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



752 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: In Midterm Elections, Afghan War Barely Surfaces

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

 BODY:
BENSALEM, Pa. -- Asked what he considers the major issues in this year's midterm Congressional elections, Claude Nicolas, 24, paused from munching on a sushi roll and crisply ticked off three: jobs, the economy and immigration.
The war in Afghanistan? ''Wow, I didn't think of that,'' he replied, almost sheepishly. ''That's definitely a factor of how not on the public radar it is. It's gone on so long people are tired of it.'' 
Virtually since the invasion of Iraq in 2003, the nine-year war in Afghanistan has largely been an afterthought in American politics. Though public interest has risen somewhat in recent months amid national debate over strategy, the firing of Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal and higher casualty counts, Afghanistan remains well down the list of voter concerns, polls show.
And interviews with voters, elected officials and political strategists this week suggest that the publication this week of thousands of classified battlefield reports will not substantially change that status.
The classified documents, which paint a grim picture of the war, have clearly bolstered antiwar activists who have been trying, without much success, to pressure Congress to curtail war spending and set timetables for troop withdrawals.
The documents also seem to be fueling widespread unease among voters who were already concerned about the war's progress, a group that has grown substantially in the past year, according to many polls.
But there is a perception shared by many strategists in both parties that the leaked reports will not propel Afghanistan to the forefront of voter concerns, unless the economy improves drastically or the war itself takes a startling turn for the worse.
Representative Joe Sestak, a Democrat who is in a tight race for the United States Senate in Pennsylvania, said it was not a top-of-mind issue for voters he meets.
''The way people have been slammed by the economy, the documents might cause the war to move from the fifth or sixth question I get to the fourth,'' he said.
But Mr. Sestak, a retired Navy vice admiral, said he hoped the leaks would prod the Obama administration to do a better job of explaining its goals in Afghanistan and to establish benchmarks for progress.
''The public does have doubts about the strategy,'' he said. ''Let's answer their questions.''
Norman Stellander, a resident of this Philadelphia suburb who usually votes Republican, exemplifies the general lack of interest in the war. Mr. Stellander lost his job with a medical publishing company in June, and the only issue that really matters to him is the economy.
The leaked military documents, while troubling in their revelations about civilian casualties, simply underscore the confusion of war, he said. ''To me, it isn't that big a deal.''
Both parties have political and ideological reasons for not raising questions about the war, party strategists acknowledge.
Though the liberal wing of the Democratic Party is becoming increasingly vocal in its opposition to the war, many Democratic candidates are still hesitant about criticizing President Obama's strategy.
Moreover, many Democrats won election in 2006 by arguing that the United States should get out of Iraq and focus on Afghanistan. Those incumbents cannot now easily call for rapid withdrawal from Afghanistan, said Jon Soltz, chairman of Vote Vets, a liberal group that supports veterans running for Congress.
''There's always been a belief that we were justified in our intervention in Afghanistan and have to give it time,'' he said.
Republicans, on the other hand, have for years supported the war and now find themselves uncomfortably aligned with a Democratic president they oppose on almost every other issue. Though Republicans have criticized Mr. Obama's setting a timetable of mid-2011 for starting a drawdown in Afghanistan, they have largely supported his sending 30,000 additional troops.
And many Republican candidates express faith in Mr. Obama's decision to replace General McChrystal as the top commander in Afghanistan with Gen. David H. Petraeus.
''People are very, very comfortable with General Petraeus,'' said Representative Jo Ann Emerson, Republican of Missouri. ''And because of that confidence, it's not the top issue that they're talking about.''
By almost every measure, public interest in the Afghanistan war has been relatively low. A July poll by CBS News showed that 7 percent of Americans considered the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan the most important problems facing the country, compared with 38 percent who answered jobs and the economy. (The poll, of a random sample of 966 adults nationwide, had a margin of error of three percentage points.)
An analysis of major news reports between January 2007 and July 2010 by the Pew Research Center's Project for Excellence in Journalism found that Afghanistan ranked sixth in total coverage by print, online, television and radio outlets, well behind the presidential campaign, the economic crisis, the health care debate and Iraq.
''Unfortunately, most Americans aren't paying attention,'' said Representative Patrick J. Murphy, Democrat of Pennsylvania. ''Which I think is a testament to the fact that 1 percent of us are fighting these wars.''
Mr. Murphy, an Iraq war veteran, won election in 2006 arguing that the United States should withdraw from Iraq and devote its resources to Afghanistan. Though he says he is ''frustrated'' by the Karzai government in Afghanistan, he supports the Obama administration's policies there.
There are a few exceptions to the reticence of many candidates on Afghanistan. In Missouri, a former Green Beret and Iraq war veteran, Tommy Sowers, a Democrat running for Congress, has questioned why the United States is training thousands of Afghan security forces when the Afghan government cannot afford to pay their salaries.
And in the Albany area, Chris Gibson, a retired Army colonel with multiple combat deployments who is running as a Republican, has criticized the military's restrictive rules of engagement, which are intended to avoid civilian casualties.
But Mr. Gibson said, ''Generally speaking, I support the administration'' on Afghanistan. Both Mr. Gibson and Mr. Sowers said the economy was the major focus of their campaigns.
Even in a Congressional race in the Fayetteville, N.C., region, which includes Fort Bragg and many veteran voters, the subject of Afghanistan rarely arises, said Pete Hegseth, executive director of Vets for Freedom, a group supporting conservative Iraq and Afghan war veterans running for Congress.
''It almost feels like both sides are willing to call a truce and not talk about it until the November elections are over,'' Mr. Hegseth said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Joe Sestak of Pennsylvania, shown this spring in Washington, says Afghanistan is not a top issue for voters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDTERM ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); IRAQ WAR (72%); PUBLISHING (67%); IMMIGRATION (57%)

PERSON: JOE SESTAK (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (76%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



753 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Curbing Your Enthusiasm

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Why does the Obama administration keep looking for love in all the wrong places? Why does it go out of its way to alienate its friends, while wooing people who will never waver in their hatred?
These questions were inspired by the ongoing suspense over whether President Obama will do the obviously right thing and nominate Elizabeth Warren to lead the new consumer financial protection agency. But the Warren affair is only the latest chapter in an ongoing saga.
Mr. Obama rode into office on a vast wave of progressive enthusiasm. This enthusiasm was bound to be followed by disappointment, and not just because the president was always more centrist and conventional than his fervent supporters imagined. Given the facts of politics, and above all the difficulty of getting anything done in the face of lock step Republican opposition, he wasn't going to be the transformational figure some envisioned. 
And Mr. Obama has delivered in important ways. Above all, he managed (with a lot of help from Nancy Pelosi) to enact a health reform that, imperfect as it is, will greatly improve Americans' lives -- unless a Republican Congress manages to sabotage its implementation.
But progressive disillusionment isn't just a matter of sky-high expectations meeting prosaic reality. Threatened filibusters didn't force Mr. Obama to waffle on torture; to escalate in Afghanistan; to choose, with exquisitely bad timing, to loosen the rules on offshore drilling early this year.
Then there are the appointments. Yes, the administration needed experienced hands. But did all the senior members of the economics team have to be proteges of Robert Rubin, the apostle of financial deregulation? Was it necessary to install Ken Salazar at the Interior Department over the objections of environmentalists who feared, rightly, that his ties to extractive industries would make him slow to clean up a corrupt agency?
And where's this administration's Frances Perkins? As F.D.R.'s labor secretary, Perkins, a longtime crusader for workers' rights, served as a symbol of the New Deal's commitment to change. I have nothing against Hilda Solis, the current labor secretary -- but neither she nor any other senior figure in the administration is a progressive with enough independent stature to play that kind of role.
What explains Mr. Obama's consistent snubbing of those who made him what he is? Does he fear that his enemies would use any support for progressive people or ideas as an excuse to denounce him as a left-wing extremist? Well, as you may have noticed, they don't need such excuses: He's been portrayed as a socialist because he enacted Mitt Romney's health-care plan, as a virulent foe of business because he's been known to mention that corporations sometimes behave badly.
The point is that Mr. Obama's attempts to avoid confrontation have been counterproductive. His opponents remain filled with a passionate intensity, while his supporters, having received no respect, lack all conviction. And in a midterm election, where turnout is crucial, the ''enthusiasm gap'' between Republicans and Democrats could spell catastrophe for the Obama agenda.
Which brings me back to Ms. Warren.
The debate over financial reform, in which the G.O.P. has taken the side of the bad guys, should be a political winner for Democrats. Much of the reform, however, is deeply technical: ''Maintain the requirement that derivatives be traded on public exchanges!'' doesn't fit on a placard.
But protecting consumers, ensuring that they aren't the victims of predatory financial practices, is something voters can relate to. And choosing a high-profile consumer advocate to lead the agency providing that protection -- someone whose scholarship and advocacy were largely responsible for the agency's creation -- is the natural move, both substantively and politically. Meanwhile, the alternative -- disappointing supporters yet again by choosing some little-known technocrat -- seems like an obvious error.
So why is this issue still up in the air? Yes, Republicans might well try to filibuster a Warren appointment, but that's a fight the administration should welcome.
O.K., I don't really know what's going on. But I worry that Mr. Obama is still wrapped up in his dream of transcending partisanship, while his aides dislike the idea of having to deal with strong, independent voices. And the end result of this game-playing is an administration that seems determined to alienate its friends.
Just to be clear, progressives would be foolish to sit out this election: Mr. Obama may not be the politician of their dreams, but his enemies are definitely the stuff of their nightmares. But Mr. Obama has a responsibility, too. He can't expect strong support from people his administration keeps ignoring and insulting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); POLITICS (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); FILIBUSTER (68%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (67%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ELIZABETH WARREN (78%); KEN SALAZAR (58%); HILDA L SOLIS (58%); MITT ROMNEY (57%); NANCY PELOSI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



754 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THE TV WATCH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Daytime Diplomacy

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
''We shouldn't be campaigning all the time,'' President Obama said on ''The View,'' during an interview that looked and sounded a lot like a campaign appearance.
Mr. Obama answered questions about Afghanistan and unemployment and also talked about vacationing in Maine with his children and his wife, Michelle. He addressed the economy and joked about pop culture, making entertainment news headlines by confessing he didn't know who Snooki is. (''Jersey Shore.'')
In short, he stepped out of the political vortex to score a political point. The president's good-humored appearance on ''The View,'' taped on Wednesday and broadcast on Thursday, wasn't just another step in the blurring of news and entertainment. It was also another example of how politicians increasingly co-opt entertainment shows to make news. 
It was his third visit with the all-female panel of hosts, but Mr. Obama is the first sitting president to appear on a daytime talk show -- a momentous enough occasion to lure Barbara Walters, on leave to recover from heart surgery, back to the couch. Judging from her guest's smooth performance -- and enthusiastic welcome -- Mr. Obama will almost certainly not be the last president to appear on a daytime talk show.
''The View'' labeled the get as a historic precedent, but if so, it's a footnote at best. Television doesn't go back very far in American history, but since its earliest days politicians have sought to capitalize on it -- all the while loosening the etiquette rules and expanding the definition of what is appropriate. Richard M. Nixon was a candidate in the 1968 presidential election when he made a cameo on ''Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In.'' Former Senator John Edwards announced his candidacy for the 2004 election on ''The Daily Show With Jon Stewart.'' While still in office in 2008 George W. Bush took a star turn on -- via a taped message -- the game show ''Deal or No Deal.'' Last year President Obama broke new ground -- CBS called it historic -- by appearing on ''Late Show With David Letterman.''
Talk shows and game shows provide politicians with a free platform to reintroduce themselves to those viewers who only glance at the news and change the channel when a presidential speech begins. And for months now Mr. Obama has been all but buried under a mass of complicated policy issues and steamy political conflict. Some critics even denounced his family vacation in Maine as too highfalutin.
By smiling and joking alongside the likes of Whoopi Goldberg and Ms. Walters, by listing his accomplishments without contradiction or interruption, Mr. Obama got a chance to remind viewers who voted for him why they did so in the first place. A lot of goodwill can be reaped with an appearance on ''The View'' or ESPN or even ''WWE Raw.'' (In 2008 Mr. Obama and two other presidential candidates provided taped greetings to fans of that wrestling show.)
Mr. Obama isn't shy about putting his charisma to use. This week he also posted a Web video, a kind of health care infomercial for Healthcare.gov, a new government Web site. On ''The View'' on Thursday, Mr. Obama said that he still had a BlackBerry, but that he didn't personally send out the White House's Twitter messages; they are delegated to a 20-something aide. He complained that his aides worry that even text messages are bound for presidential archives and therefore never send him any ''juicy'' information.
Shows like ''The View'' are a way to slip past what Mr. Obama called the ''media cycle,'' the 24-hour cable news programs that zoom in on gaffes and inflate issues like the sliming of Shirley Sherrod. Mr. Obama tried to set the record straight, describing the firing of Ms. Sherrod on bogus accusations of racism as a ''phony controversy,'' and admitting that some in his administration were among the many who ''overreacted.''
Mr. Obama told his hosts that ''the media culture right now loves conflict.'' But right then the media culture on ''The View'' mostly loved Mr. Obama. Joy Behar, who is the show's designated liberal, asked the president why he didn't have better attack dogs to combat right-wing smears. ''Joy, that's your job,'' Mr. Obama said with a smile.
Even Elisabeth Hasselbeck, a conservative, was admiring and deferential. She tried to challenge him on unemployment, saying that the administrations figures about ''saved jobs'' wasn't the same as creating new ones. Mr. Obama pushed her back handily and politely, noting, ''It makes a difference if your job was one of the ones that were saved.''
Mr. Obama may be the first sitting president to appear on a daytime talk show, but he would undoubtedly do more of it were it not for the risk of wearing out his welcome. The law of diminishing returns applies to talk-show appearances as well -- more is less.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama with three of ''The View'' hosts, from left, Barbara Walters, Joy Behar and Sherri Shepherd. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY TRAVEL (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); HISTORY (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (71%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (67%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JON STEWART (79%); BARBARA WALTERS (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%); DAVID LETTERMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: The View (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



755 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: More Spending Is Needed on Weapons Systems, Panel Says

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
Even as political pressure grows to reduce the federal budget deficit, a blue-ribbon board led by former top national security officials called on Thursday for more spending on weapons systems. 
The panel warned that efforts by the defense secretary, Robert M. Gates, to cut waste would not free enough money to modernize aging ships and planes and close a ''growing gap'' between the size of the military and its missions.
It also urged the Pentagon to create more competition on weapons contracts. Congressional aides said that could hurt Mr. Gates's effort to keep Congress from financing an alternate engine for the F-35 fighter, the Pentagon's largest acquisition program.
Congress created the board this year to review the Pentagon's long-range plans.
The group was led by William J. Perry, who was a defense secretary under President Bill Clinton, and Stephen J. Hadley, a national security adviser to President George W. Bush.
The panel's overarching concern was that, as the military pushes to win the war in Afghanistan, it is not preparing adequately to counter possible threats from countries like China.
Its 155-page report expressed mild criticism of the Pentagon's planning process. And it warned that ''a train wreck'' was coming unless the Pentagon found more money to modernize the Air Force and Navy and gained control of skyrocketing health and benefits costs.
Lawmakers worried about a slowdown in Pentagon spending praised the report as offering a realistic view of the potential threats.
''If there's to be a serious debate on defense spending,'' said Howard P. McKeon of California, the ranking Republican on the House Armed Services Committee, ''then I think this panel's views need to be front and center.''
But Gordon Adams, who oversaw national security budgets for President Clinton, said the report suffered from the same weakness as the Pentagon's own planning in failing to make difficult choices.
''This lack of planning and budgetary discipline ignores the country's economic problems and flagging political support for high defense budgets,'' Mr. Adams said. ''Now is the time to take a closer look at the military's missions, make a realistic risk calculation and reshape a smaller and better tailored force.''
Military spending has more than doubled since the 9/11 attacks. Mr. Gates recently ordered the services to cut $100 billion in overhead costs in the next several years, and a bipartisan deficit reduction panel could suggest larger cuts.
Citing the savings from competition on missile and ship contracts in the 1980s, the panel's report also said the Pentagon needed to do more to pit contractors against one another.
The report does not mention the fight over the alternate engine for the F-35, which the House has supported over Mr. Gates's objections.
Some legislators say that periodic competitions between engine companies could produce savings on the $100 billion contract. But Mr. Gates has questioned that and described having a second engine for the F-35 as wasteful.
Asked about that at a House hearing on Thursday, Mr. Perry said he would be hesitant to ''second-guess'' Mr. Gates ''without looking at the issue very, very carefully.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); AIR FORCES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (54%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (78%); BILL CLINTON (73%); BUCK MCKEON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



756 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: A PRESIDENTIAL DEFENSE: Education and Economics

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Saying that reforming education is perhaps ''the economic issue of our time,'' President Obama went before a major civil rights organization on Thursday to defend his main education program against criticisms from some minority and teachers groups. 
''It's an economic issue when the unemployment rate for folks who've never gone to college is almost double what it is for those who have,'' Mr. Obama said, according to prepared remarks. ''It's an economic issue when eight in 10 new jobs will require workforce training or a higher education by the end of this decade. It's an economic issue when we know countries that outeducate us today will outcompete us tomorrow.''
Mr. Obama, in his speech before the 100th anniversary convention of the National Urban League, acknowledged ''some controversy'' about his education initiative, which he attributed partly to ''a general resistance to change, a comfort with the status quo.'' But he chose the civil rights organization as his audience to address specifically the complaints of minority groups that schools and teachers in impoverished communities and inner cities will be unfairly neglected in the competition to meet higher standards and the drive to impose accountability for students' standardized test results.
''Our goal isn't to fire or admonish teachers,'' Mr. Obama said.
Rather, he said the ''Race to the Top'' program, which provides additional federal funds to local schools that meet administration standards -- and a companion effort to overhaul the nation's 5,000 worst schools -- were ultimately aimed at giving good teachers higher salaries, more support, from supplies to smaller classes, and more training to provide them with career opportunities and financial rewards. About $4 billion is being invested in each initiative.
''All I'm asking in return, as a president and as a parent,'' Mr. Obama continued, ''is a measure of accountability. Surely we can agree that even as we applaud teachers for their hard work, we need to make sure they're delivering results in the classroom. If they're not, let's work with them to help them be more effective. And if that fails, let's find the right teacher for that classroom.''
Referring to the signature education program of his predecessor, George W. Bush, Mr. Obama said, ''Unlike 'No Child Left Behind,' this isn't about labeling a troubled school a failure one day, and throwing up our hands the next.'' Instead, he said the federal government will work with ''the whole community'' to turn its local schools around.
''Sometimes a school's problems run so deep that better assessments, higher standards, and a more challenging curriculum aren't enough. If a school isn't producing graduates with even the most basic skills -- year after year after year -- something needs to be done differently,'' Mr. Obama said. ''If we want success for our country, we can't accept failure in our schools.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION REFORM (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



757 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Judges Fiscal Reform As Uncertain

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The financial overhaul bill signed by President Obama last week failed to simplify the complicated regulatory architecture that oversees the banking and securities industries, according to an assessment by the International Monetary Fund. 
The assessment, which is being released Friday along with a periodic I.M.F. review of the American economy, found that the effectiveness of the Wall Street reform act will rely heavily on how it is carried out.
The assessment also found that the United States faces hard choices in determining the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two mortgage-finance entities that were seized by the government in 2008. It suggested that the government break up and privatize current portfolios of the companies while transferring their responsibilities for promoting home affordability to a new government agency.
The Obama administration has deferred a decision on the future of Fannie and Freddie, which were not addressed in the financial overhaul, as Republican critics pointed out.
The assessment found that government interventions had managed to prevent a financial crisis from worsening, but said that ''the cost of intervention has been high and stability is tenuous.''
I.M.F. officials credited the United States for moving to fix its financial system to avert a recurrence of the banking crisis that nearly brought down the economy in 2008, but also expressed reservations.
''We would have preferred to see a more bold streamlining of the regulatory architecture, possibly including a merger of responsibilities for the securities markets and a merger of responsibilities for bank regulation,'' Christopher M. Towe, deputy director of the monetary and capital markets department at the I.M.F., said Thursday.
The new law established a 10-member Financial Stability Oversight Council to look out for financial institutions that pose systemic hazards to the economy. Mr. Towe said the council ''is going to face very difficult challenges in improving interagency cooperation and coordination and ensuring effective information-sharing, and a pre-emptive response to emerging systemic risk.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); MERGERS (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (71%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



758 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Within the Fed, Subtle Worries of Deflation

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A subtle but significant shift appears to be occurring within the Federal Reserve over the course of monetary policy as the economic recovery is weakening.
On Thursday, James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, warned that the Fed's policies were putting the economy at risk of becoming ''enmeshed in a Japanese-style deflationary outcome within the next several years.''
The warning by Mr. Bullard, who is a voting member of the Fed committee that determines interest rates, came days after Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, said the central bank was prepared to do more to stimulate the economy if needed, though it had no immediate plans to do so. On Friday, the government will release its estimate of gross domestic product for the second quarter of this year. 
At the Fed, Mr. Bullard had been associated with the camp that sees inflation, the central bank's traditional enemy, as a greater threat than deflation brought on by anemic growth. Until now he had not been an advocate for large-scale asset purchases to reinvigorate the economy.
But with inflation very low, about half of the Fed's implicit target of 2 percent, and with the European debt crisis having roiled the markets, even self-described inflation hawks like Mr. Bullard have gotten worried about the economy's trajectory.
With his remarks on Thursday, Mr. Bullard appeared to join other Fed officials already seen as sympathetic to the view that damage from long-term unemployment and the threat of deflation are the greatest challenges facing the economy. They include the Fed bank presidents Eric S. Rosengren of Boston and William C. Dudley of New York.
Those so-called inflation doves are likely to be joined soon by three new members of the Fed's board of governors.
President Obama has nominated Peter A. Diamond, an economist, and Sarah Bloom Raskin, a bank regulator, to the Fed's board, along with Janet L. Yellen, president of the San Francisco Fed, to be vice chairwoman of the board. All have also expressed serious concerns about unemployment.
Whether the Fed should take additional measures to support the economy is certain to be the top item when the Federal Open Market Committee, which shapes monetary policy, meets on Aug. 10. The committee includes the Fed's board of governors, along with the president of the New York Fed and a rotating group of the other bank presidents.
Of 10 current members on the committee, two are openly concerned about inflationary risks; three, now including Mr. Bullard, are somewhat worried about deflation; and five centrists, including Mr. Bernanke, have not expressed a firm leaning either way.
Mr. Bullard, in an conference call with reporters on Thursday, said that if any new ''negative shocks'' roiled the economy, the Fed should alter its position that interest rates would remain exceptionally low for ''an extended period,'' or resume buying long-term Treasury securities to stimulate the economy. He emphasized that he was not calling on the committee to act right now, but wanted to ''try to get a debate going.'' And he expressed hope his fears would not come to pass, saying, ''The most likely possibility is that the recovery will continue into the fall, inflation will start to move up and this issue will all go away.''
Laurence H. Meyer, a former Fed governor, said of Mr. Bullard's new position: ''This is very significant. He has been one of the most hawkish members, but he is now calling for the Fed to ease aggressively.''
Until now, Mr. Rosengren had been perhaps the Fed official most outspoken on the prospect of the economy getting stuck in a deflationary cycle.
''While I am not anticipating we will be in a deflationary period, it's a risk that I do take seriously, and we should continue to monitor what's happening with prices,'' Mr. Rosengren said in an interview last week. ''A heightened risk of deflation is something that we should react to.''
That view is not universally held, however.
Thomas M. Hoenig, president of the Kansas City Fed and an inflation hawk, said in an interview Thursday that the comparisons to Japan were overstated. He likened the debate to the situation in mid-2003, when a sluggish recovery from the 2001 recession prompted predictions of deflation that did not come to pass. ''I don't think we should find ourselves picking up every piece of short-term data and jumping to conclusions,'' he said.
Two others associated with the hawkish camp, which is focused on continued vigilance on inflation, offered similar perspectives in separate interviews.
''I think the fear of deflation in and of itself is probably overblown,'' Charles I. Plosser, president of the Philadelphia Fed, said last week. He said that inflation expectations were ''well anchored'' and noted that $1 trillion in bank reserves was sitting at the Fed. ''It's hard to imagine with that much money sitting around, you would have a prolonged period of deflation,'' he said. And Richard W. Fisher, president of the Dallas Fed, said this week, ''Reasonable people can argue that there's a risk of deflation, but we haven't seen it in the numbers yet.''
Starting in 2007, the Fed lowered the benchmark short-term interest rate to zero and pumped some $2 trillion into the economy with an array of emergency loans and purchases of government debts and mortgage bonds.
Those purchases were phased out in March, but there is now talk of resuming them. Doing so would further enlarge the central bank's balance sheet, which has more than doubled, to $2.3 trillion.
The Fed has been saying since May 2008 that it would keep interest rates ''exceptionally low'' for an ''extended period.'' The markets have over time interpreted that phrase to mean that the Fed will probably keep the federal funds rate at its current level -- a target of zero to 0.25 percent -- through 2011.
But in his article, Mr. Bullard wrote, ''Promising to remain at zero for a long time is a double-edged sword.''
Mr. Bullard said that inflation expectations had fallen from about 2 percent earlier this year to about 1.4 percent now, as judged by one measure, five-year Treasury inflation-protected securities.
The outcome could be an ''unintended steady state'' like Japan's slow-growth economy. ''The U.S. is closer to a Japan-style outcome today than at any time in recent history,'' he wrote.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOMOHIRO OHSUMI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); DEFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); EURO CRISIS (51%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (53%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (91%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



759 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 17B

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Momentum for a Revitalized Arts District

BYLINE: By REYHAN HARMANCI. 
rharmanci@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
In 2000, Bill Schwartz, founder of the San Francisco Theater Festival, began working toward a new kind of theater district in San Francisco's Mid-Market area. He organized panel discussions, rallied his theater colleagues, met with elected officials and worked with the city's redevelopment office, which since 1995 had been surveying the area as a possible redevelopment zone.
When the city's Board of Supervisors, unable to agree on affordable-housing issues, killed the redevelopment plans in 2005, Mr. Schwartz said he saw ''10 years of meetings'' go down the drain. 
''I was a bit peeved, to put it politely,'' he said.
Mr. Schwartz took a hiatus after that defeat, but now he is optimistic again about the prospects for a revitalized arts district downtown. His Coalition for a Mid-Market Theater District has more than 20 theater companies committed to creating a shared rehearsal and performance space. ''The stars are aligned; there is momentum,'' he said.
And he is not alone in that feeling. Mayor Gavin Newsom has put the arts front and center in his current high-profile campaign to revitalize the neighborhood.
''I think, candidly, that the past efforts have been marked by more failure than success, and we need a different approach,'' Mr. Newsom said. ''One catalyst that can truly activate storefronts, sidewalks and public spaces is the arts and arts organizations.''
The emphasis on arts, the mayor continued, constitutes ''the big difference between this effort and previous ones.''
The Mid-Market district is roughly defined as Fifth Street to 10th Street along the main promenade, bleeding into the Tenderloin and South of Market neighborhoods on either side of the street. Huge venues like the now-defunct Fox and Pantages Theaters lighted this Western ''great white way'' until the mid-1960s, when construction of the Bay Area Rapid Transit system tore up Market Street, permanently altered foot traffic and cemented the decline of what had been a major urban entertainment center.
Now this stretch is characterized by boarded-up storefronts, a high concentration of social service agencies and open drug use. According to Mr. Newsom, city officials have been trying to change the area for 40 years. ''We're still waiting,'' he said.
Arts financing for the area has recently streamed in. In June, the mayor announced an $11.5 million loan program, financed by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, to help attract nonprofits and arts businesses to the area. Two weeks ago, the National Endowment for the Arts announced that San Francisco would be one of four cities nationwide to receive $250,000 for arts-driven neighborhood development (with the city and private donors contributing $950,000 more).
The arts approach to attacking urban blight is multifaceted. The loan program is intended to help arts organizations secure long-term leases. The national endowment grant and accompanying money are earmarked for street-level projects, like a weekly arts market, lighted ''gateways'' at UN Plaza and Sixth Street, public performances and a continuation of the Art in Storefronts program. The city helped organize a Central Market Arts Festival, scheduled for September.
Mid-Market, for all its disrepair, is attractive to theaters and galleries looking to move or expand. It is easily accessible by public transportation, it has huge historic buildings and theaters, and it is close to the museum-rich Yerba Buena area.
Elvin Padilla Jr., executive director of the Tenderloin Economic Development Project, said that the American Conservatory Theater, one of the largest repertory houses in the region, was backing a proposed 300-seat multiuse arts space in Mid-Market.
Other new potential entrants to the neighborhood include the Black Rock Arts Foundation, the nonprofit arm of the Burning Man Festival, and Intersection for the Arts, which opened 5M, a satellite gallery, inside the Chronicle building at Fifth and Mission in May and is now looking for permanent space.
These new projects join a healthy mix of organizations already in the area. Darryl Smith, the co-owner of The Luggage Store, counts about 30 kinds of ''creative undertaking'' -- individual artists and organizations-- in his immediate vicinity. ''I definitely see an escalation,'' Mr. Smith said.
But according to Josette Melchor, founder of the Gray Area Foundation for the Arts, city efforts go only so far toward the ''most crucial'' factor in establishing an arts presence in the area: negotiating with building owners.
Joe Landini, founder of the Garage in SoMa, has been trying to relocate to Market Street and said, ''We want to get involved in shaping that neighborhood.'' He has been talking to the landlords of the now-empty Strand Theater, but the economics seem prohibitive.
Mr. Landini said that his entire yearly budget was around $80,000, and that the Strand wanted $10,000 a month in rent.
There are many opinions on how arts and redevelopment should work together. Randy Shaw, a longtime Tenderloin activist, is most enthused about the national endowment grant's focus on using public spaces. Mr. Schwartz holds tight to his vision of a ''multiplex'' for theaters to anchor the area. Mr. Smith sees the key to be diversity -- of organizations, of financing, of perspectives.
''Everyone has an idea of how to best do Market Street, and we have to get past that,'' Mr. Smith said. ''There are many ways, and they all matter.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Claire Genese, left, and Brenna Ivanhoe visited an exhibit at The Luggage Store on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (94%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); ENDOWMENTS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



760 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1354 words

HEADLINE: In Medical School, Without a Pre-Med Degree

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
For generations of pre-med students, three things have been as certain as death and taxes: organic chemistry, physics and the Medical College Admission Test, known by its dread-inducing acronym, the MCAT.
So it came as a total shock to Elizabeth Adler when she discovered, through a singer in her favorite a cappella group at Brown University, that one of the nation's top medical schools admits a small number of students every year who have skipped all three requirements.
Until then, despite being the daughter of a physician, she said, ''I was kind of thinking medical school was not the right track for me.''
Ms. Adler became one of the lucky few in one of the best kept secrets in the cutthroat world of medical school admissions, the Humanities and Medicine Program at the Mount Sinai medical school on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. 
The program promises slots to about 35 undergraduates a year if they study humanities or social sciences instead of the traditional pre-medical school curriculum and maintain a 3.5 grade-point average.
For decades, the medical profession has debated whether pre-med courses and admission tests produce doctors who know their alkyl halides but lack the sense of mission and interpersonal skills to become well-rounded, caring, inquisitive healers.
That debate is being rekindled by a study published on Thursday in Academic Medicine, the journal of the Association of American Medical Colleges. Conducted by the Mount Sinai program's founder, Dr. Nathan Kase, and the medical school's dean for medical education, Dr. David Muller, the peer-reviewed study compared outcomes for 85 students in the Humanities and Medicine Program with those of 606 traditionally prepared classmates from the graduating classes of 2004 through 2009, and found that their academic performance in medical school was equivalent.
''There's no question,'' Dr. Kase said. ''The default pathway is: Well, how did they do on the MCAT? How did they do on organic chemistry? What was their grade-point average?''
''That excludes a lot of kids,'' said Dr. Kase, who founded the Mount Sinai program in 1987 when he was dean of the medical school, and who is now dean emeritus and a professor of obstetrics and gynecology. ''But it also diminishes; it makes science into an obstacle rather than something that is an insight into the biology of human disease.''
Whether the study's findings will inspire other medical schools to change admissions requirements remains to be seen.
Because MCAT scores are used by U.S. News and World Report and others to rank schools, the most competitive ones fear dropping the test, admissions officials said. And at least two recent studies found that MCAT scores were better than grade-point averages at predicting performance in medical school and on the series of licensing exams that medical students and doctors must take.
''You have to have the proper amount of moral courage to say 'O.K., we're going to skip over a lot of the huge barriers to a lot of our students,' '' said Dr. David Battinelli, senior associate dean for education at Hofstra University School of Medicine.
But, Dr. Battinelli added, ''Now let's see how they're doing 5 and 10 years down the road.'' The Mount Sinai study did not answer the question.
There are a few other schools in the United States and Canada that admit students without MCAT scores, but Mount Sinai appears to have gone furthest in eschewing traditional science preparation, said Dr. Dan Hunt, co-secretary of the Liaison Committee on Medical Education, the medical school accrediting agency.
The students apply in their sophomore or junior years in college and agree to major in humanities or social science, rather than the hard sciences. If they are admitted, they are required to take only basic biology and chemistry, at a level many students accomplish through Advanced Placement courses in high school.
They forgo organic chemistry, physics and calculus -- though they get abbreviated organic chemistry and physics courses during a summer boot camp run by Mount Sinai. They are exempt from the MCAT. Instead, they are admitted into the program based on their high school SAT scores, two personal essays, their high school and early college grades and interviews.
The study found that, by some measures, the humanities students made more sensitive doctors: they were more than twice as likely to train as psychiatrists (14 percent compared with 5.6 percent of their classmates) and somewhat more likely -- though less so than Dr. Kase had expected -- to go into primary care fields, like pediatrics and obstetrics and gynecology (49 percent compared with 39 percent). Conversely, they avoid some fields, like surgical subspecialties and anesthesiology.
But what surprised the authors the most, they said, was that humanities students were significantly more likely than their peers to devote a year to scholarly research (28 percent compared with 14 percent). They scored lower on Step 1 of the Medical Licensing Examination, taken after the second year of medical school, which generally correlates with scientific knowledge. But over all, they ranked about the same in honors grades and in the percentage in the top quarter of the class.
Humanities students were also more likely to take a leave of absence for personal reasons, which could reflect some ambivalence about their choices, the study authors said.
Typically, 5 percent to 10 percent of the class drops out before getting to medical school. Those students cannot handle the science or they have changed their minds about their intention to be a doctor, said Miki Rifkin, the program director. One who dropped out was Jonathan Safran Foer, who became an acclaimed novelist.
Dr. Kase founded the Mount Sinai program shortly after a national report on physician preparation questioned the single-minded focus on hard science.
He began with a few students from five colleges and universities that did not have their own medical schools -- Amherst, Brandeis, Princeton, Wesleyan and Williams -- because, he said, ''we did not want to poach.''
It has been going full tilt for the past 10 years, and received nearly 300 applications last year from more than 80 colleges across the country, though admissions heavily favor elite schools.
Among undergraduates accepted in 2009, the mean SAT math and verbal score was 1444, and the mean freshman G.P.A. was 3.74. About a third of the class had at least one parent who was a physician; among all medical schools, about one in five has a parent who is a doctor.
Among the current crop is Ms. Adler, 21, a senior at Brown studying global political economy and majoring in development studies.
Ms. Adler said she was inspired by her freshman study abroad in Africa. ''I didn't want to waste a class on physics, or waste a class on orgo,'' she said. ''The social determinants of health are so much more pervasive than the immediate biology of it.''
She added that her parents, however, were ''thrilled when I decided to go the M.D. route, because they were worried about my job security.''
A classmate in the program, Kathryn Friedman, 21, graduated from the Chapin School in New York City, before going to Williams, where she is a senior, majoring in political science. Her mother and uncle are doctors at Mount Sinai; her father, Robert Friedman, who works in the entertainment business, is on the Mount Sinai Medical Center board.
The humanities program has allowed her to pursue other interests, like playing varsity tennis and going abroad, she said. When her pre-med classmates hear about the program, she said, ''a lot of them are jealous.''
She added, ''They are, like, 'Wow, I wish I had known about that.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Students in Mount Sinai's Humanities and Medicine Program at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL EDUCATION (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); GRADES & GRADING (89%); CHEMISTRY (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (73%)

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN MEDICAL COLLEGES (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010



761 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: Weekly Jobless Claims in U.S. Decline

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
New claims for unemployment benefits in the United States fell slightly more than expected last week, government data showed on Thursday, offering some hope for the anemic labor market recovery. 
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits dropped 11,000 to a seasonally adjusted 457,000 in the week ended July 24, the Labor Department said.
Analysts polled by Reuters had forecast claims slipping to 459,000 from 464,000 the previous week, which was revised slightly up to 468,000 in Thursday's report.
The four-week average of new jobless claims, seen as a better measure of underlying labor market trends, fell 4,500 to 452,500.
A Labor Department official described the report as ''fairly straightforward.'' Jobless claims have not fallen much this year and remain above levels that analysts say are consistent with sustained jobs growth.
Sluggish jobs growth remains the biggest obstacle to the economy's recovery from its longest and deepest recession since the 1930s.
The government is expected to report on Friday that growth slowed to a 2.5 percent annual rate in the April-June period from a 2.7 percent pace in the first three months of the year.
In the week ended July 17, 4.57 million people were still receiving benefits after an initial week of aid, up 81,000 from the previous week. The continuing claims data covered the survey period for the government's July household survey, from which the national unemployment rate is derived.
Analysts polled by Reuters had forecast so-called continuing claims increasing to 4.55 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (78%); STATISTICS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); TRENDS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



762 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
DAMAGED JAPANESE TANKER RAISES QUESTIONS ON CAUSE
Shipping officials said they were examining a Japanese oil tanker that was damaged as it traversed a strategically vital waterway between Iran and the Arabian Peninsula. The ship's owner has said that it may have been attacked. PAGE A4
VICTORY FOR CHINESE REPORTER 
Qiu Ziming, a Shanghai-based reporter, went into hiding after the police announced they were seeking his arrest. But the local Public Security Bureau apologized to Mr. Qiu and, more remarkably, scrapped the arrest warrant. PAGE A4
IRAQI INSURGENTS PLANT FLAG
Gunmen attacked two police checkpoints in Baghdad before bombs detonated on police and army patrols responding to the violence. The gunmen then raised the black flag of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia. PAGE A7
BODY OF U.S. SAILOR IS FOUND
The United States military has recovered the body of the second of two American sailors abducted last week in a dangerous region south of Kabul, but it was not clear precisely how he had died. PAGE A8
Obituaries
MICHAEL BATTERBERRY, 78
A food writer and historian, he founded, with his wife, two enduring and influential magazines, Food & Wine and Food Arts. PAGE B15
JOHN CALLAHAN, 59
A quadriplegic, alcoholic cartoonist, he made irreverent, impolitic sport of people with disabilities and diseases and those who would pity and condescend to them. PAGE B15
National
ARIZONA APPEALS DECISION TO HALT IMMIGRATION LAW
As the Arizona governor formally appealed a judge's ruling that halted the meat of the state's immigration law from taking effect, a burst of protest and recrimination made clear the ruling hardly soothed emotions. PAGE A10
FOUR CORNERS, SOMETIMES
Frustration, confusion, and for some, a punch line, played out over and over again for dozens of visitors to Four Corners Monument, the only spot in the nation where a person can stand in four states at once. But, while under reconstruction, not every day of the week. PAGE A10
NUCLEAR FORENSICS DECLINE
The nation's ability to identify the source of a nuclear weapon used in a terrorist attack is fragile and eroding, according to a report released by the National Research Council. PAGE A11
CLARIFYING F.B.I. POWERS
The Obama administration has asked Congress to give clear authority to the Federal Bureau of Investigation to obtain records related to the context of e-mails and other Internet-based communications without first getting a warrant. PAGE A15
New York
FRANTIC HUNT FOR BITS OF NEWS AS CLINTON WEDDING NEARS
The gossip Web sites, newspapers and network news programs covering Chelsea Clinton's wedding have had to rely on rumor and speculation because the Clinton family has been parsimonious about even the smallest details. (It will take place on Saturday.) PAGE A18
Business
SUBTLE SHIFT WITHIN FED TOWARD DEFLATION CONCERNS
With inflation very low and with the European debt crisis having roiled the markets, a subtle but significant shift appears to be occurring within the Federal Reserve over the course of monetary policy as the economic recovery is weakening. PAGE B1
DEBATE ABOUT MICROLENDING
An Indian company that is one of the biggest players in microfinance is about to raise up to $350 million in a stock offering, showing that big profits can be made from small helping-hand loans. The question is whether the social good will be as amply rewarded. PAGE B1
DEBT SETTLEMENT COMPANIES
The Federal Trade Commission announced restrictions on companies that claim to help borrowers get rid of crippling amounts of debt. The effort aims to address complaints about lenders that charge huge fees but fail to reduce the obligations of customers in debt. PAGE B2
CLONED LIVESTOCK IN EUROPE
Many Europeans recoil at the very idea of cloning animals. But a handful of breeders have already begun importing semen and embryos from cloned animals or their progeny from the United States. PAGE B3
Sports
BOARDER'S NEXT MOVE MIGHT BE TO TRY HOLLYWOOD
With the next Winter Olympics more than three years away, the board sports superstar Shaun White has turned his attention to skateboarding for the X Games. He has also been exploring opportunities in entertainment. PAGE B9
Weekend
'SCRUBS' TO OFF BROADWAY
The actor Zach Braff has wrapped up filming a ninth season of ''Scrubs,'' a show that brought him wealth and fame. After so much success, where does a 35-year-old go? To begin with, Mr. Braff will play Harry in ''Trust,'' a new play by Paul Weitz. PAGE C1
Op-ed
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A23
Online
SLIDE SHOW Kurdish youths have been arrested in Turkey for protesting and are now being released.
nytimes.com/international

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE TANKERS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); ARREST WARRANTS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); IMMIGRATION (79%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); ARMIES (76%); WRITERS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); PARALYSIS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); FORENSICS (71%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (71%); AL-QAEDA (70%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); IMMIGRATION LAW (69%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (68%); HISTORY (67%); DEFLATION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%); DISABLED PERSONS (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); APPEALS (65%); JUDGES (65%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); DEBT CRISIS (60%); EURO CRISIS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); EAST CHINA (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (90%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



763 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Outrage Aside, Drivers Fuel High Parking Meter Profits

BYLINE: By DAN MIHALOPOULOS and MICK DUMKE

 BODY:
Thanks to revenue largely generated in the city's outlying neighborhoods cash flow to the private company running the city's parking meter system is stronger than expected. The firm plans to increase revenue even further by stepping up enforcement on the 36,000 meters in the second half of 2010, according to new documents reviewed by the Chicago News Cooperative.
Despite the public outcry after the 218 percent increase in the meter rate since the privatization deal, the drop in meter use was less than expected, according to documents related to a planned bond issue by the private company, Chicago Parking Meters LLC.
Although Mayor Richard M. Daley has said that motorists who park downtown would bear the brunt of the increased parking fees, the documents reveal that the majority of Chicago Parking Meters' revenue is being generated in the city's neighborhoods. They also inform investors that parking rates in the Loop ''could be among the most expensive''' in the nation by 2013. 
The mayor and his aides have heatedly denied criticism that the $1.15 billion lease payment they received from the meters company in February 2009 would have been worth far more to taxpayers had the meters remained in public hands. But what seems indisputable is that the 75-year deal is so far proving to be good business for the private company, according to reports issued July 19 by independent credit-rating agencies.
The financial documents raise new questions about whether the city negotiated the best deal it could for leasing away one of its most lucrative assets. Chicago Parking Meters is on track to take in more than $73 million in 2010, according to Standard & Poor's, one of the agencies. That is more than three times the roughly $20 million a year that the city had reaped from its meters before the privatization deal.
''We view the company's business-risk profile as excellent,'' analysts for Standard & Poor's wrote in their report, citing high revenues and ''the strong concessionaire protections'' guaranteed in the agreement.
The other report, issued by Moody's Investors Service, was similarly bullish, noting that rate increases have not significantly dampened demand and that further increases in the next three years would bring ''dramatic expected improvement in the company's cash flows.''
Mayor Daley's chief financial office, Gene Saffold, said Thursday the city has no regrets. The revenues reported by the parking company are ''well within what we had projected when we decided to accept the bid'' from the company, Mr. Saffold said.
He added that he thinks revenue projections for the company ''are on the optimistic side'' and that there is a strong chance that parking demand could drop off at some point due to future rate increases or expanded use of public transit. ''There are still significant risks,'' he said. After rates quadrupled at most meters when the private company took over in early 2009, a further increase averaging 25 percent was instituted on Jan. 1. The revenue from the higher rates more than offset the slight decline in meter use.
Despite hourly rates ranging from $1.25 in the neighborhoods to $4.25 at the priciest downtown spaces, the meter company's revenues from February to April were 20 percent higher than the same period last year. Those figures represented only a 4 percent decline in demand and exceeded projections, the Moody's report said.
''You figured that with all the hatred for the deal, usage went down immediately, but people eventually come to the point where they can't avoid the meters,'' said Alderman Scott Waguespack (32nd Ward), who cast one of the five dissenting votes in the 50-member City Council when the deal was quickly ratified in December 2008.
''They have no choice,'' Mr. Waguespack said. ''It's great for the investors. It's just the opposite for the public.''
Moody's analysts said the company was attractive to investors because of a lack of public transit options beyond downtown and because of limited free street parking near ''key destinations.''
''Public transportation is not convenient to areas of the parking system outside of the central business district, which are expected to generate the majority of revenues,'' the analysts wrote.
Officials for Morgan Stanley, which has a 50.1 percent stake in Chicago Parking Meters, declined to comment on the Chicago venture's revenue numbers.
Both Moody's and Standard & Poor's gave investment-grade ratings to Chicago Parking Meters. But the company announced last week that it ''chose to postpone'' what was to be a $500 million bond sale ''due to unfavorable market conditions,'' according to a Morgan Stanley spokeswoman.
In November 2009, the Chicago News Cooperative reported on the company's internal financial records that showed how meter revenues rose in late 2009 after weaker-than-projected returns in the first few months of its takeover; the latter was plagued by widespread technical problems. The new reports from Wall Street provide the fullest picture yet on the company's improving cash flow, and the anticipation of even higher profits.
The deal with the city allows the company to raise meter rates by an average of 20 percent next year, 17 percent in 2012 and 14 percent in 2013, with increases beyond that year to be based on inflation. Those increases are expected to lift revenues to almost $162 million a year in 2020, the Standard & Poor's analysts estimated.
That report shows that most of the revenues generated by the meters this year -- 56.4 percent of total payments -- is coming from motorists who park beyond downtown.
''It's another tax on the middle-class people of the city of Chicago,'' said Clint Krislov, a lawyer who has filed suit challenging the privatization deal in Cook County Circuit Court.
The city retains the right to reduce rates or even decrease the number of meters. But if officials do anything to hurt the private investors' cash flow, taxpayers will have to make up the difference. Analysts believe that such contractual obligations protect the meter company from public opinion that could sway the city's elected leaders.
''Despite significant initial public opposition to the concession, political risk is largely mitigated by provisions in the concession agreement and is not considered an undue concern,'' the Moody's analysts wrote. ''In addition, public acceptance of the concession appears to be growing.''
Under the 2008 deal, the company and the city both can issue tickets for parking violations, with all ticket revenues going to the city. Compliance in feeding meters is hovering at about 75 percent, but and consultants have told the company that tougher ticketing would raise revenues by almost 10 percentage points in 2011.
The company suspended writing tickets last year to focus on correcting mechanical problems with meters and switching from coin-fed meters to credit-card machines. It announced last month, however, that it would resume ticketing.
A Revenue Department spokesman said the company had 10 ticket writers and planned to add another five this year. Avis Lavelle, a former aide to Mr. Daley who now works as a spokeswoman for the company, declined to comment Thursday on its enforcement plans.
Besides Morgan Stanley's role, significant minority stakes in Chicago Parking Meters LLC are held by German financial company Allianz (25 percent) and the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (24.9 percent).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Brighton Park has meters along part of Archer Avenue. (A17A)
 The Edison Park neighborhood has many parking meters around restaurants and near homes and apartment buildings. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) (A17B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); CASH FLOW (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); PARKING LOT OPERATORS (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (76%); BONDS (76%); BOND ISSUES (70%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (58%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



764 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Valencia Street Looks Better, but the Cost Was High

BYLINE: By SCOTT JAMES. 
Scott James is an Emmy-winning television journalist and novelist who lives in San Francisco. sjames@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
San Francisco just completed a $6.1 million face-lift on Valencia Street -- wider sidewalks, trees, bike racks, lighting and art. But if this were actual cosmetic surgery, an old joke might apply: the operation was a success, but the patient died.
Businesses along the stretch of Valencia from 15th to 19th Streets are emerging from what some describe as a construction ''nightmare'' that tore up one of the most vibrant neighborhoods in the city -- and, coupled with the recession, killed off much of the business traffic. 
With the city undergoing a street-improvement boom, several other neighborhoods are also receiving the mixed blessing of better streets and sidewalks preceded by months of construction.
All the work has turned streets into a maze of detours and closings. But it is needed. The quality of the city's roads has eroded in recent years to a score of 63 out of 100 on the Pavement Condition Index, according to the Metropolitan Transportation Commission. That puts the city toward the bottom of the area's rankings.
For nearly a year, Valencia Street looked like a war zone, with orange and white plastic barricades surrounding open trenches. Parking was eliminated, driving was difficult and it became precarious even to walk.
Customers went away.
''People avoided this area and found new places to eat and shop,'' said Nikki DeWald, owner of Blondie's Bar & No Grill.
Ms. DeWald said business owners had been told the inconvenience would take a few months, but instead it lasted 11 months. ''I'm happy with the end result,'' she said. ''It just took too long.''
These blocks have been among the most thriving in the Mission -- a mix of upscale, homegrown, and eclectic -- from stylish Bar Tartine to nightly lines for margaritas at Puerto Alegre.
Frjtz restaurant is known for its French fries with dipping sauces in a space easily mistaken for an avant-garde gallery. (an audio recording of conversational Japanese lessons plays in the restroom). But the fun nearly came to an end, said Santiago Rodriguez, the owner.
''I really, really, almost lost my business,'' Mr. Rodriguez said.
The restaurant's revenues dropped by $232,000 during the construction, 25 percent of his typical annual business. He stopped paying himself a salary and delayed mortgage payments on his home.
''It was my worst business in 10 years,'' Mr. Rodriguez said.
It is difficult to determine the financial impact on the entire neighborhood -- some owners did not want to talk publicly about the matter -- but Ms. DeWald, who serves on the board of the Mission Merchants Association, said every business in the construction zone suffered significantly. Her revenues declined by 20 percent, she said.
When told of the hardships, Edward D. Reiskin, director of the Department of Public Works, said, ''We're very sorry for that.''
Mr. Reiskin said the Valencia Streetscape Improvement Project was complex and the timetable lengthened by unforeseen problems. He also said, however, that businesses had not been promised that the construction would require only a few months. The original schedule was nine months, he said.
But when digging started last summer, the location of underground utilities differed from city blueprints. ''That caused us quite a bit of a delay,'' Mr. Reiskin said. Record rainfall further postponed completion.
The city is currently spending $42 million to improve streets -- nearly double the budget of five years ago, thanks in part to federal stimulus money -- after what Mr. Reiskin described as ''30 years of neglect and disinvestment.''
Because of the recession, contractors eager for the work are charging less, allowing for more paving. In addition to the routine maintenance, large ''streetscape'' efforts similar to the Valencia Street project are planned for sections of Cesar Chavez and Balboa Streets.
Sean Elsbernd, a city supervisor, said, ''To be quite honest, we're not doing enough.''
Mr. Elsbernd called poor streets a quality-of-life issue, and said that despite the inconveniences, ''long term, it's absolutely necessary for the future of the city.''
Mr. Reiskin rebuffed the notion that the city might not be able to efficiently handle so many projects at once.
Despite the delays and complaints, Mr. Reiskin called Valencia Street a ''transformation'' designed ''to make more room for people.'' It is now more inviting to pedestrians, he noted, which in turn increases prospects for shops and restaurants.
In fact, there is enough space on sidewalks now for al fresco dining, and Mr. Rodriguez has put two tables outside for Frjtz -- a sign of hope.
Ms. DeWald said she expected customers to return, in time.
''We haven't had a chance to discover the positive side yet,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: One of the remaining construction sites on Valencia Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CITY LIFE (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



765 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2085 words

HEADLINE: Gulf of Mexico Has Long Been Dumping Site

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

 BODY:
HOUMA, La. -- Loulan Pitre Sr. was born on the Gulf Coast in 1921, the son of an oysterman. Nearly all his life, he worked on the water, abiding by the widely shared faith that the resources of the Gulf of Mexico were limitless.
As a young Marine staff sergeant, back home after fighting in the South Pacific, he stood on barges in the gulf and watched as surplus mines, bombs and ammunition were pushed over the side.
He helped build the gulf's very first offshore oil drilling platforms in the late 1940s, installing bolts on perilously high perches over the water. He worked on a shrimp boat, and later as the captain of a service boat for drilling platforms.
The gulf has changed, Mr. Pitre said: ''I think it's too far gone to salvage.'' 
The BP oil spill has sent millions of barrels gushing into the Gulf of Mexico, focusing international attention on America's third coast and prompting questions about whether it will ever fully recover from the spill.
Now that the oil on the surface appears to be dissipating, the notion of a recovery from the spill, repeated by politicians, strikes some here as short-sighted. The gulf had been suffering for decades before the explosion of the Deepwater Horizon rig on April 20.
''There's a tremendous amount of outrage with the oil spill, and rightfully so,'' said Felicia Coleman, director of Florida State University's Coastal and Marine Laboratory. ''But where's the outrage at the thousands and millions of little cuts we've made on a daily basis?''
The gulf is one of the most diverse ecosystems in the hemisphere, a stopping point for migratory birds from South America to the Arctic, home to abundant wildlife and natural resources.
But like no other American body of water, the gulf bears the environmental consequences of the country's economic pursuits and appetites, including oil and corn.
There are around 4,000 offshore oil and gas platforms and tens of thousands of miles of pipeline in the central and western Gulf of Mexico, where 90 percent of the country's offshore drilling takes place.
At least half a million barrels of oil and drilling fluids had been spilled offshore before the gusher that began after the April 20 explosion, according to government records.
Much more than that has been spilled from pipelines, vessel traffic and wells in state waters -- including hundreds of spills in Louisiana alone -- records show, some of it since April 20.
Runoff and waste from cornfields, sewage plants, golf courses and oil-stained parking lots drain into the Mississippi River from vast swaths of the United States, and then flow down to the gulf, creating a zone of lifeless water the size of Lake Ontario just off the coast of Louisiana.
The gulf's floor is littered with bombs, chemical weapons and other ordnance dumped in the middle of last century, even in areas busy with drilling, and miles outside of designated dumping zones, according to experts who work on deepwater hazard surveys.
The likelihood of an accident is low, experts said, but they added that federal hazard mitigation requirements are not strong enough to guarantee the safety of drillers working in the gulf.
Even the coast itself -- overdeveloped, strip-mined and battered by storms -- is falling apart. The wildlife-rich coastal wetlands of Louisiana, sliced up and drastically engineered for oil and gas exploration, shipping and flood control, have lost an area larger than Delaware since 1930.
''This has been the nation's sacrifice zone, and has been for 50-plus years,'' said Aaron Viles, campaign director for the Gulf Restoration Network, a nonprofit group. ''What we're seeing right now with BP's crude is just a very photogenic representation of that.''
History of Neglect
All along the coast, people speak of a lack of regulatory commitment and investment in scientific research on the gulf by state and federal lawmakers.
They note, for example, that over the last decade, the Environmental Protection Agency's financing for the Chesapeake Bay Program, a regional and federal partnership, was nearly five times the amount for a similar Gulf of Mexico program, and a Great Lakes program was given more than four times as much.
''The funding had never been equivalent to other great water bodies,'' said Lisa Jackson, the administrator for the Environmental Protection Agency. ''That's absolutely true. But it's also absolutely true that this administration changed that long before the spill.''
While the Gulf of Mexico program financing remains at roughly the same levels, Ms. Jackson pointed to other programs to address gulf health that have been created and received tens of millions of dollars in the last two years.
On July 19, the Obama administration announced the recommendations of the Interagency Ocean Policy Task Force, a committee created in 2009 to coordinate governance over the country's major bodies of water.
The White House also announced the creation of a gulf restoration road map before the spill to address the long-term problems on the Louisiana and Mississippi coasts.
The details of some of these federal plans remain vague, and the financing is viewed as just a start, but they have raised hopes of a more effective federal approach to the gulf's problems -- an approach that has long been missing, say scientists, lawyers and environmental advocates here.
Ms. Jackson added that it is not all about money. Some of the key coastal issues, like control of the Mississippi River, present thorny jurisdictional complications between the federal government and the states.
And while billions of dollars would be required to restore the coast -- much more than has already been committed -- the maintenance of a healthy gulf also demands rigorous enforcement of regulations.
Some of the strongest resistance to tough regulation, as well as the most permissive attitude toward industry and property development, has come from the Gulf States themselves.
While the states formed an alliance in 2004 to address the gulf's overall health, the group includes some of the poorest states in the country, and they are concerned that tighter rules could chase away jobs.
In a federal ranking of states for annual toxic release, 3 of the top 10 are along the gulf.
This has led to a cycle of lax oversight. Members of several national environmental groups said they had found much of the gulf a hostile fund-raising and political atmosphere -- a point echoed by Paul Templet, a former secretary of the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality.
''They don't have any support in state government,'' Mr. Templet said of the groups. ''They do a cost-benefit analysis, and they decide to spend their money elsewhere.''
A Regional Difference
But without the aggressive watchdog role played by well-financed environmental groups in places like California and the Mid-Atlantic, threats to the gulf have largely gone unmonitored.
Kieran Suckling, a founder of the Center for Biological Diversity, said he was shocked in the days after the Deepwater Horizon spill to discover the United States Minerals Management Service's lax oversight of the offshore drilling industry.
''The blatant, extremely public actions of the M.M.S. would not survive for 10 minutes if they were doing this very same thing in the Northeast or the Pacific Northwest,'' he said.
But his organization, like many others, did not have an office on the gulf.
''The environmental movement was either so far removed from it that it was unaware, or it was aware and afraid to challenge it because of local politics,'' Mr. Suckling said. ''Or it was unwilling to challenge because it has written off the gulf as America's dumping ground.''
By the time the environmental movement gained steam, in the 1970s, the Gulf of Mexico had already established a reputation as a place where the country did its dirty work.
Oil and gas companies have been drilling offshore in the central and western gulf for more than 60 years, providing tens of thousands of jobs for states with ailing agrarian economies.
In that time, only the Ixtoc I spill off Mexico in 1979 has come close to the Deepwater Horizon disaster. But still, a report from the Ocean Studies Board and other federal scientific advisory groups found that the waters of the northwestern gulf take on more oil on average per year, from spills, natural seeps and land-based sources like coastal refineries and everyday transportation, than any other North American marine waters.
According to data from the Minerals Management Service compiled and analyzed by Toxics Targeting, a firm that documents pollution and contamination, at least 324 spills involving offshore drilling have occurred in the gulf since 1964, releasing more than 550,000 barrels of oil and drilling-related substances. Four of these spills even involved earlier equipment failures and accidents on the Deepwater Horizon rig. Thousands of tons of produced water -- a drilling byproduct that includes oil, grease and heavy metals -- are dumped into the gulf every year. The discharges are legal and regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency.
But in the early 1990s, Robert Wiygul, an environmental lawyer who works on the Gulf Coast, brought at least a half-dozen lawsuits against companies that were found to be dumping produced water in shallow areas along the coast without any permit at all, citing little to no enforcement by the E.P.A. and little concern from regional politicians.
The E.P.A. later tightened regulations, including an outright ban on dumping produced waters near shore. But Mr. Wiygul described the situation as typical.
''If you'd had high-level politicians saying, 'Y'all need to do this, this needs to happen,' you would have seen a different situation there,'' he said.
A Double-Edged Sword
Some of the alternatives to oil and gas could present their own problems to the gulf. While many farm groups, along with the Obama administration, are pushing for an expansion of ethanol-based fuels, such an expansion could mean more corn grown in the Midwest. That in turn could mean more nitrogen-rich fertilizer pouring into the gulf from the Mississippi River.
The nitrogen discharged into the Mississippi -- 1.5 million tons of it yearly, from fertilizer, as well as urban runoff and sewage plants -- creates a feeding frenzy among the phytoplankton when it enters the gulf. When the phytoplankton decompose, oxygen in the water is reduced so significantly that little life can exist.
That man-made area of dead water, called a hypoxic zone, is second in size only to a similar zone in the Baltic Sea. And its source, for the most part, is in states hundreds of miles from the gulf.
''One of the problems with the gulf as an ecosystem is its insults come from so damn far away,'' said Oliver Houck, a lawyer at the Tulane University Law School in New Orleans.
The Clean Water Act has been effective at regulating ''point source'' pollution from specific factories and waste plants. But the act leaves much up to the states when it comes to regulating more diffuse sources of pollution, like runoff. And agricultural runoff is explicitly exempt from regulation under the act.
That does not mean that the states and the E.P.A. are powerless to curtail upstream pollution, said Nancy Rabalais, an expert on gulf hypoxia and executive director of the Louisiana Universities Marine Consortium. They just have been reluctant to do so in the past.
She said some positive steps had been made recently, including a new four-year, $320 million federal initiative dedicated to substantially reducing the nitrogen coming into the gulf by working with agricultural states upriver. But the plan is only a start, she said, and she has not seen the states along the Mississippi, including those in the gulf, push for the financing needed to make a measurable difference.
Mr. Pitre is skeptical that anything will change, given the economic realities. The BP spill aside, much of the damage to the gulf has been gradual and piecemeal. And people still believe that the gulf is big enough to absorb it.
''You can fool people,'' Mr. Pitre said. ''But you can't fool the fish.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DERICK E. HINGLE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A14) MAPS: A Gulf Polluted By States Near and Far: Enormous swaths of the United States send fertilizer, storm runoff and treated sewage into the Gulf of Mexico, leaving an area of lifeless water called the hypoxic zone. The problem, which has persisted for decades, is an example of how the gulf has suffered environmental damage long before the recent oil spill, largely because of uneven enforcement of pollution laws by states. Runoff and effluent from wastewater treatment plants in large cities like Chicago add to the problem, but nitrogen and phosphorus from fertilizers and manure are the leading causes of the hypoxic zone.
Hypoxia in the gulf: The Mississippi and Atchafalaya Rivers dump an average of 1.5 million tons of nitrogen every year into the Gulf of Mexico, which has the second largest man-made coastal hypoxic zone in the world. The bulk of the nitrogen, used to fertilize corn, comes from agricultural states like Iowa, Illinois, Ohio and Indiana.
GRAPHIC: Hypoxia's effects underwater (Sources: Nancy N. Rabalais, Louisiana Universities Marine Consortium
R. Eugene Turner, Department of Oceanography and Coastal Sciences, Louisiana State University
Charles G. Crawford and Dale M. Robertson, U.S. Geological Survey
Margot Stiles, Oceana
 National Marine Fisheries Service, NOAA) (GRAPHIC BY HAEYOUN PARK, ERIN AIGNER AND MIKA GRONDAHL/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OCEANOGRAPHY (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); WILDLIFE (86%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (77%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (77%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); LAKES (63%); BIRDS (62%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%); GULF OF MEXICO (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); LAKE ONTARIO (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ARCTIC (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010



766 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1674 words

HEADLINE: Wealth and Controversy in Microlending

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM and VIKAS BAJAJ. 
Stephanie Strom reported from New York and Chicago. Vikas Bajaj reported from Mumbai and Ahmedabad, India.

 BODY:
An Indian company with rich American backers is about to raise up to $350 million in a stock offering closely watched by philanthropists around the world, showing that big profits can be made from small helping-hand loans to poor cowherds and basket weavers.
The company, SKS Microfinance, is one of the biggest players in the field known as microfinance, which involves loans, often as small as $20, that banks might consider too tiny and risky to bother with.
SKS was set up as what philanthropists call a ''social enterprise'' -- a business based on the concept of doing well by doing good.
And there is no question that the company's 41-year-old Indian-American founder, Vikram Akula, and investors who include prominent Silicon Valley venture capitalists will do very well indeed from the I.P.O. Mr. Akula has already privately sold shares worth almost $13 million, and he still holds stock options potentially worth $55 million. 
The question is whether the social good will be as amply rewarded.
SKS Microfinance is not the first microlender to go public, and there has long been debate over whether social enterprises should be turned into giant commercial operations. Proponents of commercial microfinancing say the money raised can provide even more loans to the needy than relying only on charitable donations.
But the I.P.O. for SKS, one of the field's biggest stock offerings yet, has caused its own type of controversy.
The disputes involve two charitable microfinance organizations that helped Mr. Akula put SKS on its feet and financed it through its early days. It is not clear what will happen with the money those groups will make from the I.P.O.
At one of those groups -- five Indian trusts that now hold the assets of Mr. Akula's original nonprofit version of SKS -- two board members resigned in March over his plan to steer funds toward his original nonprofit group rather than granting them to many charitable entities.
The other nonprofit ensnared in controversy is a Seattle-based group called Unitus, which holds a stake in SKS that will be worth millions after the I.P.O. The group's board shocked the nonprofit community this month by saying that all of the organization's 40-person staff would be laid off and that Unitus would no longer be involved in microfinance activities.
That stunned donors of Unitus, which was set up a decade ago specifically to support microfinance. As recently as June, a newly hired chief executive at the group had been discussing ambitious new projects with potential supporters, including the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
In charity circles, people wondered about the motives of the Unitus board members, at least four of whom had invested in SKS Microfinance themselves and thus would reap profits from the I.P.O.
''If Unitus is closing down, that shows what is the real result of this I.P.O.,'' said Muhammad Yunus, an economics professor who is considered the father of microfinance and has been critical of the SKS stock offering. ''You are now encouraging the profit-maximizing part, and the nonprofits are closing down.''
Joseph Grenny, the chairman of Unitus's board and an SKS investor, declined to say what would happen to Unitus's proceeds from the offering. Because Unitus is listed as a ''promoter'' of the stock offering, he said he could not comment without violating Indian law.
''That's all speculative at this point, anyway,'' he said in a telephone interview.
Mr. Grenny said he and the other board members would be donating the proceeds to charities -- although he would not say whether Unitus would be among them. In two of the cases he said, the investments were made through charitable foundations the directors were involved with and the proceeds would go to those foundations.
One big Unitus donor is the Omidyar Network, the philanthropic and investment venture of an eBay founder, Pierre Omidyar. The Omidyar group's managing partner, Matt Bannick, said he was surprised by the Unitus board's decision to scale back, because he was impressed by its plans for future nonprofit microfinance projects.
''I felt that not only had Unitus done a tremendous amount of good with that model, but also that it remains highly relevant,'' Mr. Bannick said.
Omidyar Network had been concerned enough about the structure of the Unitus board that last autumn it paid for a study by a management consultant. According to two former Unitus executives, the study concluded that some directors had too many nonprofit and for-profit roles with Unitus -- particularly one, Geoffrey Woolley, who was chairman of the investment fund running Unitus's profit-making investments and was an investor in those funds and in SKS.
Mr. Woolley resigned from the board last fall, but Mr. Grenny said he would now be brought back to help plan Unitus's future beyond microfinance. Mr. Woolley declined to comment.
The unwinding of Unitus stands in contrast to the way Accion, another nonprofit group that focuses on microfinance, handled a $140 million windfall from the 2007 public offering of the Mexican microlender Compartamos. Accion, which still holds a 9 percent stake in the Compartamos, has used the money to expand its microfinance operations, and its executives and directors had no investments in the operation.
The Unitus board, in the news release announcing its decision to withdraw from microfinance, said the group's remaining assets would directed into ''new early-stage, poverty-focused philanthropic activities.''
But with Unitus's remaining skeletal staff expected to be gone by autumn, and with Mr. Grenny declining to discuss the matter, it is not clear who will manage the group's soon to be sizable financial holdings, or how they will be used.
''The board members aren't full-timers or experts,'' said Timothy Ogden, a philanthropy consultant and editor of the blog, Philanthropy Action. ''I don't know how you avoid wasting the millions of dollars the organization is supposed to get through the I.P.O. and its stake in SKS, if you don't have the staff to make smart choices.''
In India, there are also questions about how nonprofit assets will be handled after the SKS I.P.O.
SKS's roots lie in a nonprofit microfinance organization, known as SKS Society, that Mr. Akula set up in 1997. To help it grow faster, in 2005 Mr. Akula set up a profit-making offshoot, SKS Microfinance, to attract commercial financing.
No one doubts that the money SKS Microfinance raises in the offering will enable it to make even more loans to needy applicants. As of March it had about 6.8 million borrowers, holding $624 million worth of microloans, making SKS among the biggest of the world's 1,800 or so microfinance organizations.
The controversy lies in the five trusts that served as the bridge between the original nonprofit SKS Society and SKS Microfinance.
When Mr. Akula started the profit-making SKS Microfinance, virtually all of the company was owned by the trusts. Over time, as other investors came in -- including the American firm Sequoia Capital and the Silicon Valley venture capitalist Vinod Khosla -- the trusts' stake was diluted to 15 percent.
But the trusts still stand to benefit in a big way from the public offering. They are selling shares worth up to $42 million and will continue to own a stake worth as much as $175 million -- collectively making them one of the biggest endowments in India.
A new, supposedly independent board was created last fall to oversee the trusts and the new wealth they will have. But that structure quickly fell apart.
After the board's first meeting in March, two of the handful of directors resigned: Narayan Ramachandran, who previously headed the Indian operations of the investment bank Morgan Stanley, and Anu Aga, a prominent philanthropist and former chairwoman of an Indian industrial company, Thermax.
Mr. Ramachandran and Ms. Aga referred requests for comment to the company. But several people close to the situation said the two had left over differences with Mr. Akula -- who at the time was not a member of the trust board -- about how to spend money from the offering.
Mr. Akula wanted the trusts to support education, health and other programs for borrowers of SKS through the nonprofit SKS Society. The two board members reportedly preferred instead to establish a grant-making institution similar to a private foundation that could funnel that money to other, already established social programs.
Mr. Akula declined to discuss the trusts or other specifics relating to the I.P.O., citing Indian and American securities rules. He and a friend, who is a professor at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, are the only board members. The company's prospectus says three independent directors are being recruited.
Mr. Khosla, the Silicon Valley investor, said Mr. Akula's approach would measurably help SKS borrowers. Giving grants, he said, would spread the money too thinly to too many groups.
Mr. Akula has become something of a celebrity in India, and some people who know him -- including his ex-wife, Malini Byanna -- said he wanted to continue controlling the trusts and SKS Society because he has political ambitions in India.
''You have to understand -- every loan is a future vote,'' said Ms. Byanna, a Chicago-based lawyer who has been involved in a long legal battle with Mr. Akula over custody of their son, Tejas.
But at a news conference in India on Monday, Mr. Akula, who was born in India but grew up in Schenectady, N.Y., and is still an American citizen, denied that he had political ambitions. ''I will continue with SKS until poverty is eradicated in India,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sharda Bhandare cutting towels to make gloves at a workshop in Mumbai, India. SKS Microfinance is among the top makers of tiny loans to such borrowers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADEEL HALIM/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHARTS: Edging Out a Helping Hand: An American nonprofit, Unitus, helped an Indian microfinance group, SKS Society, evolve from a nonprofit organization to a for-profit company that now hopes to raise up to $350 million in an initial public stock offering. But over time, as shown below, Unitus's ability to benefit from SKS's financial growth was scaled back. And now, on the eve of the I.P.O., Unitus has been effectively disbanded.
 Benefiting From an I.P.O.: SKS Microfinance, an Indian company that has roots in a nonprofit organization called SKS Society, is having an initial public stock offering. Those gaining from the I.P.O. will include for-profit and nonprofit groups. (Source: SKS Microfinance) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROFINANCE (94%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); STOCK OPTIONS (73%); BOARD CHANGES (62%); RESIGNATIONS (62%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: SKS MICROFINANCE LTD (92%)

TICKER: SKSMICRO (NSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010



767 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: President To Promote Auto Bailout

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When President Obama steps into a General Motors plant on Friday morning -- as the majority shareholder surveying the government's investment in a company the White House called ''moribund'' just 18 months ago -- he will be doing more than just examining the first models of the plug-in hybrid Volt that began rolling off the production line this week.
Mr. Obama will be delivering the opening salvo in a White House effort to argue that government bailouts, now the most charged phrase in the political lexicon, actually worked in the case of the auto industry -- much as they did in the banking industry, but with broader benefits for workers and consumers.
In interviews and in a report issued on Thursday, ahead of the president's trip to Michigan, Mr. Obama's advisers argue that had the president not invested more than $60 billion into General Motors and Chrysler, more than a million jobs would have been lost. Instead, they say, 334,000 jobs disappeared from June 2008 to June 2009, a period that ends shortly after the bailout began. And 55,000 new workers have been hired since. 
White House officials project that the cost to taxpayers will most likely turn out to be minimal -- just as with the banks' bailout -- and it is still possible taxpayers may even see a small profit.
But like the Volt, this argument is a grand experiment. Just as G.M. is uncertain whether Americans will buy a $41,000 plug-in hybrid, the White House cannot be certain that most voters will agree that workers and investors would be a lot worse off had there not been an auto bailout.
Both companies and Ford each posted profits in the first quarter, the first time that has happened in a quarter since 2004. G.M. has already repaid a $6.7 billion loan and it is talking about going public in the fourth quarter, a move that would give the government a way to slowly sell its majority stake in the company's stock.
Nine of G.M.'s 11 plants, including the Hamtramck, Mich., facility that Mr. Obama is to visit on Friday, canceled the usual summer shutdowns to keep up with consumer demand, and G.M. and Chrysler have added shifts.
While the automakers' earnings have turned positive, the politics of the bailout are so negative they could prove impossible to turn around.
In the run-up to the midterm Congressional elections, a reaction against big government -- as epitomized by the bailouts of banks, two of the three biggest automakers and the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac -- has driven the Tea Party movement and a more general criticism that the Obama administration has overreached.
Moreover, many unknowns remain. Chrysler has significant loans left to repay, which it says it will do by 2014. The value of the government's stock in G.M. is still unclear -- and it could not sell all of its shares at once even after its public offering.
And no one is quite certain whether the United States will ever see the more than $20 billion that President George W. Bush poured into the carmakers in the last days of his presidency -- with few conditions for change inside the companies. Brian Deese, an economic adviser at the White House who played a central role in the auto bailouts under Mr. Obama, said only that ''taxpayers will not end up footing the bill.''
''Every stakeholder'' -- unions, management and investors -- ''had to sacrifice in the G.M. bankruptcy,'' said Mr. Deese, a member of the administration team that essentially dismantled G.M. and arranged for the government to take a 60 percent stake. ''But in the end, the financial discipline that was imposed in the process made it clear that a lot worse things would have happened if the president hadn't made the decision he did.''
At the White House on Thursday, three other administration advisers met with reporters to preview the White House insistence that, properly structured, the auto bailouts did far more good than harm, at little cost.
Ron Bloom, the former investment banker and union adviser whom Mr. Obama tapped last year to help engineer the companies' makeovers, said that the bailout's benefits went far beyond G.M. and Chrysler. He said the intervention stabilized the entire industry, including Ford, which did not take a bailout, and a vast network of parts suppliers that employ more people than Detroit's Big Three combined.
''This is an incredibly interdependent industry, and if G.M. had failed a very large number of suppliers would have immediately failed,'' Mr. Bloom said.
With his visits to the G.M. and Chrysler plants and, next week, a Ford plant in Chicago, the president will take the lead in making the argument that his strategy worked.
Aside from the bailouts, the administration has steered money from the economic stimulus and other programs to encourage the automakers to produce electric batteries and high-mileage vehicles. The Ford assembly plant in Chicago, for example, is adding another shift of 1,200 workers after receiving an Energy Department loan, Mr. Bloom said.
''We think we're positioning the United States automobile industry to lead the world in the future,'' he added.
Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, was asked if the administration was in effect saying ''we told you so'' to conservative critics like Rush Limbaugh who have continued to denounce the auto bailout.
Some wanted to walk away, Mr. Gibbs said. But he added, ''The president didn't think that walking away from a million jobs in these communities made a lot of economic sense.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama with the Chevy Volt, a new plug-in vehicle, at a plant in Holland, Mich. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BANK FAILURES (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (81%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (81%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010



768 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: A Sin And A Shame

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
The treatment of workers by American corporations has been worse -- far more treacherous -- than most of the population realizes. There was no need for so many men and women to be forced out of their jobs in the downturn known as the great recession.
Many of those workers were cashiered for no reason other than outright greed by corporate managers. And that cruel, irresponsible, shortsighted policy has resulted in widespread human suffering and is doing great harm to the economy. 
''I've never seen anything like this,'' said Andrew Sum, an economics professor and director of the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University in Boston. ''Not only did they throw all these people off the payrolls, they also cut back on the hours of the people who stayed on the job.''
As Professor Sum studied the data coming in from the recession, he realized that the carnage that occurred in the workplace was out of proportion to the economic hit that corporations were taking. While no one questions the severity of the downturn -- the worst of the entire post-World War II period -- the economic data show that workers to a great extent were shamefully exploited.
The recession officially started in December 2007. From the fourth quarter of 2007 to the fourth quarter of 2009, real aggregate output in the U.S., as measured by the gross domestic product, fell by about 2.5 percent. But employers cut their payrolls by 6 percent.
In many cases, bosses told panicked workers who were still on the job that they had to take pay cuts or cuts in hours, or both. And raises were out of the question. The staggering job losses and stagnant wages are central reasons why any real recovery has been so difficult.
''They threw out far more workers and hours than they lost output,'' said Professor Sum. ''Here's what happened: At the end of the fourth quarter in 2008, you see corporate profits begin to really take off, and they grow by the time you get to the first quarter of 2010 by $572 billion. And over that same time period, wage and salary payments go down by $122 billion.''
That kind of disconnect, said Mr. Sum, had never been seen before in all the decades since World War II.
In short, the corporations are making out like bandits. Now they're sitting on mountains of cash and they still are not interested in hiring to any significant degree, or strengthening workers' paychecks.
Productivity tells the story. Increases in the productivity of American workers are supposed to go hand in hand with improvements in their standard of living. That's how capitalism is supposed to work. That's how the economic pie expands, and we're all supposed to have a fair share of that expansion.
Corporations have now said the hell with that. Economists believe the nation may have emerged, technically, from the recession early in the summer of 2009. As Professor Sum writes in a new study for the labor market center, this period of economic recovery ''has seen the most lopsided gains in corporate profits relative to real wages and salaries in our history.''
Worker productivity has increased dramatically, but the workers themselves have seen no gains from their increased production. It has all gone to corporate profits. This is unprecedented in the postwar years, and it is wrong.
Having taken everything for themselves, the corporations are so awash in cash they don't know what to do with it all. Citing a recent article from Bloomberg BusinessWeek, Professor Sum noted that in July cash at the nation's nonfinancial corporations stood at $1.84 trillion, a 27 percent increase over early 2007. Moody's has pointed out that as a percent of total company assets, cash has reached a level not seen in the past half-century.
Executives are delighted with this ill-gotten bonanza. Charles D. McLane Jr. is the chief financial officer of Alcoa, which recently experienced a turnaround in profits and a 22 percent increase in revenue. As The Times reported this week, Mr. McLane assured investors that his company was in no hurry to bring back 37,000 workers who were let go since 2008. The plan is to minimize rehires wherever possible, he said, adding, ''We're not only holding head-count levels, but are also driving restructuring this quarter that will result in further reductions.''
There can be no robust recovery as long as corporations are intent on keeping idle workers sidelined and squeezing the pay of those on the job.
It doesn't have to be this way. Germany and Japan, because of a combination of government and corporate policies, suffered far less worker dislocation in the recession than the U.S. Until we begin to value our workers, and understand the critical importance of employment to a thriving economy, we will continue to see our standards of living decline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); WORLD WAR II (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010



769 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Summer Camp for the Cool and Career-Conscious 13-Year-Old

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS. 
E-mail: susan.dominus@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Come to Manhattan, a Web site urges young people, and experience a new sleep-away camp ''in a totally cool, totally New York environment.''
The hip summer camp -- it may be the one niche that has been underrepresented in the extensive options available until now. What is cool, after all, about bug juice, reveille and mildewing beach towels?
The three-week program, at the 92nd Street Y, is an urban answer to camping, an alternative that eschews the wild in favor of the hot. Called Passport NYC, it is a pre-preprofessional program for teenagers who can choose to focus on one of four creative fields. Fashion-focused students as young as 13 met, for example, with members of Michael Kors's staff. Campers in the music program had the opportunity to hang out with the indie Brooklyn promoter Todd P. 
Young people in the other two fields, film and culinary arts, also do their share of networking, a skill that has somehow become part of modern-day camp craft.
As ever-younger children insist on comporting themselves like over-it-all adolescents, even the term camper may be considered passe in some circles. At Teen Hampton, a program on the East End of Long Island, they avoid the word, said the owner, Jay Jacobs, so as not to alienate their main clients, Manhattanites ages 11 to 14. That crowd no longer ''thinks of day camp as cool,'' Mr. Jacobs said. Sure, Teen Hampton has a daily swim and tennis and possibly even some bonding and heartbreaking -- but the young people who go there would probably prefer to think of it as an ''organized club,'' he explained.
Most camps have young people waking early and rushing to get somewhere by 8 or 9 -- what, only 12 and already a slave to the Man? At Teen Hampton, activities do not start until 10:30, to accommodate middle schoolers' sleep rhythms. Campers -- patrons? -- make their own schedules, choosing on a day-to-day basis whatever electives capture their interest. So how to explain the name of the camp, which serves children as young as those entering sixth grade? The name, Mr. Jacobs said, ''is aspirational.''
At Passport NYC, the ethos is also aspirational, but if the young people there are racing toward adulthood, it is the Bravo television version, a New York existence in which everyone is passionately creative. On most days, the campers -- a mix from all over the country, as well as Mexico, Canada and the Upper East Side -- are out the door of the Y by 8:30 a.m., on their way to their first class or session with someone plugged in. ''They're really commuting,'' said Molly Hott, the director of Passport NYC. ''Parents today want to know their children are directed.''
By 11:30 a.m. on a recent Thursday, teenagers were wiping down kitchen counters in the basement kitchen of an Upper West Side synagogue, having already whipped up baba ghanouj and couscous with stewed vegetables for a Moroccan Shabbat dinner (the camp is financed, in part, by the Foundation for Jewish Camp, and has a community service component).
Some parents pay good money so that their children can come as close to possible to living out the fantasy that they are demigods battling mythological monsters; at Passport NYC, parents are paying ($3,900 for three weeks) so their children can test out the fantasy of a glamorous New York career.
''Meeting Johnny Iuzzini'' -- Jean Georges's pastry chef -- ''was a life-changing experience,'' said Jesse Nagelberg, 16, of East Brunswick, N.J., who was in the kitchen that morning. ''To see him use molecular gastronomy, to take a strawberry compote and put it into calcium nitrate so that it totally changed the consistency -- it opened my mind to an entire world of pastry.'' Jesse already runs his own catering business; now he thinks he might shift his focus in the direction of pastry.
When the economy is good, it is easy to raise an eyebrow at parents who urge their children to consider careers before they have even filled out college applications. When the economy is slow, the push suddenly seems more practical, even when the children chase less-than-practical careers.
Worst-case scenario, we will have a generation of aspirational, empowered young people coming up against a still-sluggish job market, one that cannot accommodate all that confidence and expectation. Best case, they will use that energy and confidence to recharge whatever they find.
Maybe by then they will have figured out how to use molecular gastronomy to do it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jesse Nagelberg, 16, right, one of the culinary-minded participants in the Passport NYC camp at the 92nd Street Y in Manhattan, helps prepare a pot of baba ghanouj in a synagogue kitchen. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (89%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); CHILDREN (71%); MUSIC (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: THE 92ND STREET YOUNG MEN'S & YOUNG WOMEN'S HEBREW ASSOCIATION (83%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010



770 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: After the G.D.P. Report, Wall Street Settles Down

BYLINE: By SUSANNA G. KIM

 BODY:
Investors took a disappointing report on the nation's gross domestic product in stride, leaving the indexes nearly unchanged on Friday. Shares stayed within a narrow range after opening lower on the latest reading on the economy.
The report said that the economy grew at an annual pace of 2.4 percent in the second quarter. Many analysts had expected 2.5 percent in the April-through-June quarter, though some had started to lower their expectations as the week progressed. The government also revised first-quarter growth upward, to 3.7 percent from 2.7 percent.
''It confirms that we are in a slow but clear recovery from a very deep recession,'' David P. Kelly, chief market strategist of J. P. Morgan Funds, said of the report. 
Traders initially took a dim view of the report, and the Dow Jones industrial average briefly fell more than 100 points. But the indexes recovered and ended the day nearly unchanged.
At the close, the Dow was down 1.22 points, or 0.01 percent, at 10,465.94. The broader Standard and Poor's 500-stock index increased 0.07 point, or 0.01 percent. The Nasdaq was up 3.01 points, or 0.13 percent, to 2,254.70.
''The markets' instant reaction is going to be wrong,'' Mr. Kelly said of the large drop after the release of the report. ''It actually takes a while to read through the numbers to understand what's going on.''
Despite the flat day on Friday, it was the best month for the major indexes this year. For July, the Dow rose 7.08 percent and the S.& P. was up nearly 6.9 percent. The Nasdaq was also up 6.9 percent for the month.
Still, other aspects of the G.D.P. report weighed on investors. Net exports were the most worrisome news in the report because of the short-term drag on the economy, according to Josh Bivens, economist with the Economic Policy Institute. He said many economists found the overall release ''depressing.'' Despite a growth in exports of 10.3 percent, imports surged at 28.8 percent.
''To me, today's report just screams out that we need more movement in the aggregate economy and the sure way to produce that is more fiscal stimulus,'' Mr. Bivens said.
Two other economic reports on Friday offered more upbeat outlooks. The University of Michigan/Thomson Reuters index on consumer sentiment for July rose more than expected, to 67.8 from an earlier reading of 66.5. And the latest Chicago Purchasing Managers Index rose to 62.3 in July from 59.1 in June. Economists were expecting a drop to 56.5.
The Chicago P.M.I., a measure of business health in Chicago, helped to show that there was momentum in manufacturing, Mr. Kelly said.
''Businesses that depend upon the spending of other businesses are benefiting,'' Mr. Kelly said.
In a note to clients, Dan M. Greenhaus of Miller Tabak, highlighted the 21.9 percent growth in spending on equipment and software, the largest increase since 1998.
Allen Sinai, the chief global economist of Decision Economics, said that although the quarterly G.D.P. figure was close to expectations, it raised a question about ''the long-term sustainability of the expansion.''
''Capital spending is doing well,'' Mr. Sinai said, ''and we have a very healthy business sector, but the big issue is the consumer and whether consumer spending will hold up.''
That in turn, he said, depended on jobs and income, which indicators show are not reflecting signs of noteworthy improvement.
On Thursday, the Labor Department announced that jobless claims fell 11,000, to 457,000, slightly more than expected but still a cause for worry in the runup to next week's jobs report.
Friday's data comes after two other disappointing reports. Earlier this week, the Conference Board said that its index of consumer confidence dropped to 50.4 points in July, from a revised 54.3 in June as Americans worried about a stagnant job market.
And the government reported that durable goods orders declined 1 percent in June, the second consecutive monthly decrease. The Federal Reserve, in its regional report on Wednesday, also noted that the recovery was beginning to lose momentum.
For the week, the Dow was up 0.4 percent while the S.& P. was down about 0.1 percent. The Nasdaq finished 0.65 percent lower.
Investors are still reacting strongly to disappointing earnings reports. On Friday, the pharmaceutical company Merck announced revenue that fell short of expectations. The company also revised its 2010 earnings forecast to $3.29 to $3.39, from $3.27 to $3.41. Shares of Merck fell 60 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $34.46.
In other earnings news, the Simon Property Group, one of the largest owners of mall real estate, reported higher earnings and revenue. Net income rose to $152.5 million in contrast to a loss of $20.8 million a year ago. The company maintained its forecast. Shares of Simon rose $1.29, or 1.47 percent, to $89.22.
The 10-year Treasury note rose 23/32, to 105 1/32. The yield fell to 2.91 percent, from 2.99 percent on Thursday.
The FTSE 100 in London was down 55.93 points, or 1.05 percent, while the DAX in Frankfurt rose 13.27 points, or 0.22 percent. The CAC 40 in Paris fell 8.77 points, or 0.24 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); EXPORT TRADE (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010



771 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Recovery Slows; Outlook on Jobs Grows Dimmer

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
There is no more disputing it: the economic recovery in the United States has indeed slowed.
The nation's economy has been growing for a year, with few new jobs to show for it. Now, with the government reporting a growth rate of just 2.4 percent in the second quarter and federal stimulus measures fading, the jobs outlook appears even more discouraging.
''Given how weak the labor market is, how long we've been without real growth, the rest of this year is probably still going to feel like a recession,'' said Prajakta Bhide, a research analyst for the United States economy at Roubini Global Economics. ''It's still positive growth -- rather than contraction -- but it's going to be very, very protracted.'' 
A Commerce Department report on Friday showed that economic growth slipped sharply in the latest quarter from a much brisker pace earlier, an annual rate of 5 percent at the end of 2009 and 3.7 percent in the first quarter of 2010. Consumer spending, however, was weaker than initially indicated earlier in the recovery.
Many economists are forecasting a further slowdown in the second half of the year, perhaps to an annual rate as low as 1.5 percent. That is largely because businesses have refilled the stockroom shelves that were whittled down during the financial crisis, and there will not be much need for additional orders.
Additionally, the fiscal stimulus measures that have propped up growth are expiring. Proposals for individual programs like another expansion of unemployment benefits have been beaten back each time they have come up in Congress.
''We need 2.5 percent growth just to keep the unemployment rate where it is,'' said Christina Romer, chairwoman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers. ''If you want to get it down quickly, you need substantially stronger growth than that. That's what I've been saying for the last several quarters, and that's why I've been hoping that we'll please pass the jobs measures just sitting on the floor of Congress.''
The approaching midterm elections, however, may harden the political standoff after Congress returns from its August recess. As a result, pressure will probably increase on the Federal Reserve to use its available tools to prevent a double-dip recession. Recent reports from Fed policy makers suggest the central bank has become increasingly worried about where the economy is headed.
American businesses, if not American households, seem to be hanging on.
The crucial driver of growth in the second quarter was business investment in such things as office buildings and equipment and software. Such activity rocketed up at an annual rate of 17 percent in the second quarter, compared with a 7.8 percent increase in the first. The equipment and software category alone grew at an annual rate of 21.9 percent, the fastest pace in 12 years.
''We're seeing a sort of handover from consumer spending to capital spending,'' said John Ryding, chief economist at RDQ Economics. ''The consumer also looks to have saved more than we thought before, which means they're perhaps further on the road to financial adjustment than we thought they were previously.''
Consumer spending, which is usually a leading indicator of a recovery and which accounts for most economic activity in the United States, has been leveling off. It grew at an annual rate of 1.6 percent in the second quarter after a 1.9 percent rate in the previous quarter.
Personal savings was estimated at 6.2 percent of disposable income last quarter, significantly higher than the 4 percent that had been estimated earlier.
A separate report released on Friday by the University of Michigan and Thomson Reuters showed that consumer confidence tumbled in July.
The fact that businesses seem to be investing more in equipment than in hiring may be a reason consumers have been reluctant, or perhaps unable, to pick up the pace of their spending.
''There are limits on the degree to which you can substitute capital for labor,'' Mr. Ryding said. ''But you can understand that businesses don't have to pay health care on equipment and software, and these get better tax treatment than you get for hiring people. If you can get away with upgrading capital spending and deferring hiring for a while, that makes economic sense, especially in this uncertain policy environment.''
The government painted a portrait of a deeper recession when it also released revised data for the last three years on Friday. Over all, 2009 and 2008 were slightly worse than previously reported, but the first quarter of 2010 was better.
As the global economy recovers, America's trade has picked up. But imports once again grew faster than exports. Imports grew at an annual rate of 28.8 percent, the biggest jump in a quarter-century, compared with a 10.3 percent gain in exports.
Government spending shot up more than many anticipated, at an annual growth rate of 4.4 percent after a decline of 1.6 percent in the first quarter. Public spending was broad-based, with even state and local expenditures increasing for the first time in a year. Local governments may have taken advantage of warmer weather to use more of their federal stimulus money.
''You could see this in the monthly number for state and local construction spending,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at IHS Global Insight. ''Construction slows down during winter months, so stimulus may not have been doing as much earlier this year.''
Other policy initiatives, like the homebuyer's tax credit, also appear to have lifted demand. Consumers rushing to take advantage of the credit as it was nearing its expiration pushed up spending on housing and related property investments by an annual pace of 27.9 percent in the second quarter. Such spending had fallen 12.3 percent the previous period.
''This will almost certainly reverse hard next quarter,'' Jay Feldman, director of economics at Credit Suisse Securities, wrote in a note to clients.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Worse Than Expected: Revised gross domestic product figures show that recession was worse than previously reported.
 Real gross domestic product: Quarterly, in 2005 dollars (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); RECESSION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (63%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

PERSON: CHRISTINA ROMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010



772 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Struggling Nuclear Ventures in U.S. and France Hurt the Bottom Line at E.D.F.

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH; Bettina Wassener contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
PARIS -- The French energy giant EDF said Friday that its profitability had been dented by costs related to its U.S. nuclear ventures and that the construction of its latest-generation nuclear power plant in France would be delayed amid cost overruns.
Announcing its first-half earnings -- in which it also pledged to sell electricity assets in Britain to Li Ka-shing, the richest man in Hong Kong -- EDF said its new E.P.R. plant in Flamanville, on the Normandy coast, would now cost 5 billion, or $6.5 billion, an increase of 1 billion. It also extended the target for beginning commercial output to 2014 from 2013. E.P.R. originally stood for European Pressurized Reactor. 
EDF, the largest Western power generator, reported a 47 percent drop in first-half net profit after making a provision of 1.1 billion related to financing delays on nuclear projects in the United States. Profit fell to 1.66 billion, from 3.1 billion a year earlier.
The sale of the British power grid, for $9.1 billion, was designed to buffer the group from the effects of the delays in the French plant, the write-down in the United States and to pay debt related to its 2008 acquisition of British Energy. That deal cost $:12.5 billion, or $19.5 billion, and will give the French company a dominant role in the British nuclear industry.
In addition, EDF is expected soon to increase its stake in Areva, another French nuclear giant, perhaps raising its stake to between 10 percent and 15 percent from the current 2.5 percent. That deal is being negotiated by the state, which holds a majority in both companies, but is expected by analysts to cost EDF about 3 billion.
''During first six months of the year, the group was faced with numerous challenges,'' said Henri Proglio, EDF's chairman and chief executive. ''Despite an uncertain economical and regulatory environment, the group continued its development.''
EDF's net debt was 44.1 billion at the end June, up 1.6 billion from the end of 2009.
Analysts stressed that, over all, the company is in solid financial shape.
''The company is still extremely profitable and does not face serious long-term problems,'' said Colette Lewiner head of the energy practice at CapGemini in Paris.
EDF paid $4.5 billion in 2008 to enter the U.S. venture with Constellation Energy, negotiating just before the steep decline in asset prices. The two companies had also created a U.S. nuclear venture Unistar Nuclear Energy in 2007 for latest generation projects.
The 1.1 billion provision ''covers the risks of impairment of the assets of C.E.N.G., the investment in Unistar and certain future costs and risks associated with the project,'' the company said.
It added it was still studying development of a latest generation reactor at Calvert Cliffs, Maryland, though it has yet to receive approval for a federal loan guarantee under a plan to support the sector announced by the administration of President Barack Obama.
Constellation's chief executive, Mayo Shattuck, warned this week the Calvert Cliffs project could be put on hold if the guarantee do not emerge by summer's end. Constellation and EDF have spent $600 million on the proposed reactor.
The Flamanville plant, with its E.P.R. technology from Areva, is the first new reactor to be built in France in a decade.
It has suffered a series of set-backs after its original core design failed to meet safety criteria. Anti-nuclear activists are seeking to halt construction, arguing that design changes have invalidated the plant's original permit.
Still, EDF said Friday that ''significant progress'' had been made at Flamanville, and that a number of critical stages had been completed.
''Flamanville is among the first reactors of its type to be built and it's a very complex design,'' Mrs. Lewiner said, ''there are some detailed engineering and construction management problems.'' Areva has also been hit by overruns on an EPR plant that it is building in Olkiluoto, Finland. EDF is to build two EPR plants in China. The sale of the British distribution network covering the south-east and east of England to Cheung Kong Infrastructure and Hongkong Electric was agreed at $:5.8 billion.
EDF's network serves about 7.8 million people in London and southeast England. It includes about 170,000 kilometers of underground cables and overhead power lines, as well as 66,300 substations, according to the company's Web site.
Cheung Kong Infrastructure and Hongkong Electric are part of Cheung Kong Holdings, a conglomerate that grew out of a plastic-flower manufacturing business that the young Mr. Li set up in the 1950s and is now one of the territory's largest companies. The deal is dependent on consultations with the EDF unions and is subject to regulatory approval in Europe and to CKI and HEH shareholder approvals.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Completion of the EDF nuclear power plant being built in Flamanville, France, on the Normandy coast, will be delayed by a year because of increased costs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MYCHELE DANIAU/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: ELECTRICITE DE FRANCE SA (EDF) (92%); AREVA SA (90%); CAPGEMINI SA (51%)

TICKER: EDF (PAR) (92%); AREVA (PAR) (90%); CAP (PAR) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (92%); SIC5063 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT (92%); SIC4939 COMBINATION UTILITIES, NEC (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); NAICS562211 HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (90%); NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS335311 POWER, DISTRIBUTION & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMER MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS237990 OTHER HEAVY & CIVIL ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION (90%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (90%); NAICS212291 URANIUM-RADIUM-VANADIUM ORE MINING (90%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (51%)

PERSON: HENRI PROGLIO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (89%) NORMANDY, FRANCE (72%) FRANCE (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010



773 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; LARCHMONT JOURNAL; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Empty Spots in a Norman Rockwell Downtown

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
LARCHMONT, N.Y. -- This village has long been one of suburban New York's handsomest, blessed with an almost quaint Norman Rockwell downtown of shops, where mannequins are elegantly sheathed and brocaded pillows glisten.
But today, at least 17 of those shops are shuttered or about to close, and ''For Rent'' signs are plastered on many windows.
''It's like a contagion,'' said Joe Barlow, owner of Outerluxe, a 10-year-old high-fashion store on the main commercial drag of Palmer Avenue that is hanging on. 
Of course, Mayor Joshua L. Mandell pointed out, shops are closed in other village downtowns, too, and the forces that merchants blame for these troubles -- the recession, risk-averse bankers, the Internet and adamantine landlords unwilling to lower rents -- extend far beyond his town. But the phenomenon is surprising and dramatic here.
For one, Larchmont, a community of 6,500 people, is very comfortably fixed, with a median household income of $154,000. For another, Larchmont stores are a magnet not just for local consumers but also for those from other Westchester towns. Finally, because the troubled Larchmont shops happen to be clustered in a small area -- 13 stores in just four blocks -- the visual impact is striking.
''It's affecting the perception of the village,'' said Jeff Rosenberg, the president of a recently reinvigorated chamber of commerce. ''Having many empty stores is not a healthy environment for the business community.''
Although most people believe that the village will recover when the business cycle turns upward, the closings are the talk of the town.
''It's God-awful!'' said Toby Roth, who is selling off the remaining wheelies and handbags from her luggage store on Palmer Avenue, and plans to close in August. ''If you are contemplating buying a house, the first thing the Realtor does after telling you how wonderful the schools are is drive through the retail district. Now, they're avoiding this block.''
For 16 years, Ms. Roth, 73, and her son Marc have been running a warm, chatty shop, the kind that draws people in whether they need a suitcase or not. She offers full service -- helping customers get justice on their warranties, for example -- but in the last two years her business has fallen 75 percent because, she said, people are traveling less or making do with battered suitcases. Some people, she added, do come in to price her suitcases, but end up buying them on the Web to save money.
One recent weekday, Ms. Roth's store seemed busier than ever -- but that was because she was selling her wares at a closeout discount. One woman hugged Ms. Roth. ''Oh, how sad!'' she said.
''People are asking us maybe we could stay, maybe we could ride it out,'' Ms. Roth said. ''The amount of empathy is staggering.''
Tony Mancino, who has had a tailoring shop for 25 years, said that just a few years ago customers would lavish their bonuses on custom suits costing $1,400 to $2,500. When the bonuses stopped, the purchases fell off. Now, with his business down 30 percent, he has found it difficult to get a line of credit, and he has had to dip into savings to keep going.
''All these stores you see here,'' he said, ''they ran out of money.''
Many merchants worry that the sheer number of vacant stores in Larchmont will hurt the survivors because fewer people in Westchester will continue to think of the town as a shopping destination.
''You used to come in to go to the bank, but you'd get your kids' hockey skates sharpened or get your nails done,'' Mr. Barlow said. ''Now, you need a specific reason to come in.''
Mr. Barlow, 61, said that business at his clothing shop was down by half and that he had to borrow from his retirement fund.
Larchmont's dry cleaners, barbers, grocers and liquor purveyors seem as busy as ever. But the village has long had an abundance of shops that sold home decor, knickknacks, whimsical gifts and the like -- the kind of items that buyers are likely to pass up if they are minding their budgets.
''They look nice on the coffee table, but you can do without it,'' said T. J. Russo, a board member of the chamber of commerce.
Judy Silberstein, the publisher of a local online newspaper called the Larchmont Gazette, thinks that the commercial vitality of Larchmont is not so much shrinking as shifting from the Palmer Avenue area to a smaller shopping district near Boston Post Road, where restaurants with outdoor tables have created the feel of a Parisian boulevard.
''One side of town is struggling and the other side of town is experiencing a renaissance,'' Ms. Silberstein said.
Some merchants complain that village officials have aggravated the problem by supporting regulations that make it difficult for them to obtain renovation permits or to keep tables on the sidewalk later into the night. The village, however, has tried some remedies. A Christmas holiday policy allowing two hours of parking instead of one along much of Palmer Avenue had been extended but expired on June 30; merchants want that extension continued.
Mr. Mandell, who became mayor in April, said the village, with a $680,000 state grant, was trying to spruce up Palmer Avenue with a streetscape project -- new lampposts and widened sidewalks.
''As the economy turns, people get emboldened and look around,'' he said. ''We want their first choice to be Larchmont.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Toby Roth, at her shop, the Luggage Stop, in Larchmont, N.Y., plans to close in August. ''People are asking us maybe we could stay,'' she said, adding, ''The amount of empathy is staggering.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUGGAGE & LEATHER GOODS STORES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); CLOSINGS (75%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010



774 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: There May Be 'No Better Place,' but There Is a Better Slogan

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

 BODY:
COLUMBUS, Ohio -- Quick, what do you think about when you hear the words ''Columbus, Ohio''?
Still waiting. ... And that's the problem that civic leaders here hope to solve.
This capital city in the middle of a state better known, fairly or not, for cornfields and rusting factories has a low cost of living, easy traffic and a comparatively robust economy. It variously has been pronounced to have the nation's best zoo, best science museum and best public library. For sports fans, ''Ohio State Buckeyes'' says it all.
What Columbus does not have, to the despair of its leaders, is an image. As home to major research centers, it has long outgrown its 1960s self-concept as a cow town, and its distinction as the birthplace of the Wendy's hamburger chain does not quite do the trick these days. The city lacks a shorthand way to sell itself -- a signature like the Big Apple or an intriguing tagline like Austin's ''Live Music Capital of the World.'' 
As a result, those working to attract new companies, top professors, conventions and tourists have a hard time explaining how Columbus differs from dozens of other cities that likewise claim to be livable, progressive and fun.
''Columbus has not had a bad image,'' said Paul Astleford, director of Experience Columbus , which promotes tourism and conventions. ''It has just had no image in the national marketplace.''
And so, just as the Scarecrow searched for a brain and the Tin Man a heart, Columbus has embarked on a multiyear quest to define the city's soul.
At least six earlier branding efforts over the last half-century fizzled out with anodyne slogans like ''Discover Columbus'' and ''Surprise, It's Columbus.'' Currently, the Chamber of Commerce declares ''There's No Better Place.'' But this time, three years into their inner journey, city leaders expect to succeed by drawing the whole population into the process and teasing out shared points of pride.
How do you stoke the imagination of outsiders and the enthusiasm of residents? Columbus, starting from relative obscurity, has found that you cannot just hire an advertising agency, like New York and Las Vegas did, and come up with a slogan. It needs to find something real and heartfelt to trumpet, a task force of business, educational, political and arts leaders here concluded. One model they have studied is Indianapolis, which raised its profile by describing itself as the amateur athletic capital of America.
''No consistent image or qualities come to mind when people think about Columbus,'' lamented Doug Kridler, director of the Columbus Foundation and a leader of the task force. The city must develop ''a messaging mooring-post that different groups can use to describe our authentic strengths,'' Mr. Kridler said.
So what core message might everyone from the mayor to college recruiters be broadcasting one day?
Sports can hardly be ignored in a city that is crazed by Big Ten football, but the city's high proportion of college students and researchers, its civic engagement and its diversity of opportunities may be even more salable traits, task force members say. How many cities can boast of having one of the largest county fairs and also one of the largest gay pride parades?
''We are a diverse, youthful, knowledge-based community that is open to new ideas coming in,'' Mr. Astleford said. ''That has not been the tradition in the Midwest.''
Alex Fisher, director of the Columbus Partnership, which works to bring jobs, said the city needs to let people know that as a financial and insurance center it should not be lumped in with the Rust Belt. ''We need to make sure we aren't so bashful, with Midwestern modesty,'' Mr. Fisher said. ''Candidly, we believe we are one of the brightest stars in Ohio's future.''
Task force members have been sworn to secrecy until they reach a consensus, sometime next year. But do not expect them to use what one wag proposed, according to The Columbus Dispatch, at a recent meeting:
''Columbus: We Are So Not Ohio.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Past branding efforts like ''Discover Columbus'' and ''Surprise, It's Columbus'' have fizzled and failed to lure tourists to the city, which boasts ''the most accurate replica'' of the Santa Maria, one of Christopher Columbus's ships. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRK IRWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (88%); FAST FOOD (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (72%); CITIES (72%); COST OF LIVING (71%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (71%); SPORTS FANS (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); AMATEUR SPORTS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); BRANDING (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (97%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010



775 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: Feckless and Cruel

 BODY:
In a shameful bout of election-year politicking, the House has rejected badly needed help for rescue workers and residents still suffering from the Sept. 11, 2001, destruction of the World Trade Center. What should have been swift bipartisan approval of a plan for medical and economic compensation turned into an ugly political brawl. 
The House action was an insult, especially to the tens of thousands of ordinary citizens who pitched in selflessly for weeks in the cleanup, and have since developed grave illnesses from the toxic dust and debris of ground zero. Their needs were pushed aside as lawmaking degenerated into a game of election-year chicken.
The Democratic leadership, cowed by the Republicans' relentless campaign-focused bluster no matter what the bill, foolishly ordered limited debate. That meant they had to accept an impossible two-thirds vote for approval. Republicans then voted no in near lock step. Mayor Michael Bloomberg was correct in pronouncing a pox on all as the bill fell short, 255 to 159.
The measure, which calls for $3.2 billion in medical aid over eight years and $4.2 billion in economic compensation, should have been put to a simple majority vote. If Republicans chose to oppose it with campaign boilerplate, the blame for failure would undeniably be theirs.
The House leadership needs to bring the measure back for a second vote requiring a simple majority. A small window remains after the summer recess. Lawmakers will have a chance to show that, beyond the fear and loathing that's driving vicious House partisanship, a shred of comity can still be managed, especially when it comes to the victims of Sept. 11.
The main sponsors, Representatives Carolyn Maloney and Jerrold Nadler, Democrats of New York, and Representative Peter King, Republican of New York, are rightly still pressing to get the bill passed this year. This September marks the ninth anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks. The country must not forget any of its victims.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); TERRORISM (73%)

PERSON: PETER T KING (58%); JERROLD NADLER (58%); CAROLYN MALONEY (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010



776 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: The Growing Resilience of Plastic

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics on his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
CREDIT cards, which caused losses for many American banks during the recession as cardholders defaulted at record rates, are back to producing rising profits across the industry, with the default rate falling and fewer people falling behind on their bills. 
The default rate peaked in March when card accounts had to be written off at an annual rate of 11.2 percent, according to data from Moody's, which compiles an index of results from credit card securitizations. By June, the rate was down to 10.3 percent.
The default rate is something of a lagging indicator, representing accounts that are at least six months overdue. The proportion of accounts that were delinquent -- having missed at least one payment -- peaked a year earlier, in the spring of 2009, at the same time that the stock market was hitting its lows.
For the banks, profits are returning despite some new rules that limit their ability to raise interest rates and fees on cards. The final set of those rules, to take effect Aug. 22, will limit the penalties that can be charged for late payments or for borrowing more than the credit limit imposed by the bank.
Moody's forecasts that the default rate will continue to fall even if the economy suffers a double-dip recession. ''Credit card lenders have tightened lending standards since late 2007, and while the tightening has ended, lending standards remain extraordinarily tight by historical standards,'' wrote Wen V. Zhang and Scott Hoyt of Moody's in a report released this week. They argue that the tighter standards, combined with the fact that the riskiest customers have already defaulted, make a new default wave less likely.
Historically, changes in the default rate on credit cards have tended to track changes in the unemployment rate, with the notable exception of late 2005 and early 2006. A new bankruptcy law went into effect in late 2005, making it much harder for people to discharge credit card debt in bankruptcy. That led to a surge of bankruptcy filings -- and card defaults -- followed by a falloff when the new law took effect.
At the time, the peak default rate in December 2005, of 7.3 percent, seemed an aberration that would not be seen again. But the change in the bankruptcy law may have served to increase defaults a few years later, as banks considered their improved legal standing in bankruptcy as a reason to loosen lending standards.
The figures in the accompanying charts show as profits what Moody's calls the ''excess spread'' in securitization portfolios, which is basically the difference in what the portfolio brings in through interest payments and fees, after deducting defaults and an estimate of the banking system's cost of financing. It does not reflect costs at the bank level, most notably the marketing expenses needed to attract cardholders.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Credit Card Profits Turn Up, as Defaults Dip: CREDIT CARD INDUSTRY PROFITS: Credit card interest and fee income, less default losses and costs of bank funding, as a percentage of outstanding credit card debt. Excludes marketing costs. (Source: Moody's) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); SECURITIZATION (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (85%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); PERSONAL DEBT (79%); INTEREST RATES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S CORP (92%)

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010



777 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: Social Security Jitters? Better Prepare Now

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
If you are worried about the future of Social Security, join the crowd.
With the nation's debt swelling, the pressure on Washington to cut spending will only rise. Social Security may not be the first place lawmakers look. But the program, which has provided a significant financial cushion for retirees and others since the first checks were mailed in 1937, will surely be part of the discussion.
The program, which has its own dedicated stream of income, is projected to pay out more this year than it is taking in, but that is a function of the weak economy. Social Security will, according to the last annual report from its trustees, be able to pay full benefits through 2037. Then, if there are no changes in the program in the meantime, the taxes collected will be enough to pay out only about 75 percent of benefits through 2083.
So while Social Security's finances are stable in the short term, most experts agree that the program needs to be bolstered for the long term. Among the proposals circulating is one from Representative John Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, who recently suggested raising the retirement age to 70 for people at least 20 years from retirement. 
Other options include increasing Social Security payroll taxes, subjecting more income to the tax, reducing initial benefit payments or cutting cost-of-living increases (which would affect current retirees).
But even if it's not clear yet what, if anything, will be done to Social Security and when, we thought it would be useful to look at a worst-case possibility -- to assume that benefits will not continue to be as generous. This is especially important as pensions continue to fade away.
So what are the financial implications of pushing back the full retirement age? What happens if the government reduces benefits for future retirees? What will that mean to people in the middle of their careers, beyond the rote response that they're going to have to work longer and save more?
Yes, it means fewer dinners out and driving a more economical car. But it also may mean that people in their 20s, 30s or even older have to put aside a lot more money to partly make up for any cut to benefits. Otherwise, people may risk a sudden drop in their living standard when they retire.
And while lawmakers may, in the end, not decide to make drastic changes in Social Security, many of the financial advisers and other experts we talked to said they were erring on the side of caution and were already recommending that their clients start saving more now.
''People 50 and below should change their planning now to incorporate a benefit cut,'' said Laurence J. Kotlikoff, an economics professor at Boston University who ran some numbers for us to see what life would be like if the retirement age were immediately raised to 70. That change would translate into a nearly 20 percent cut in benefits, because you would have to wait an extra three years to get the same amount of money, he added.
Several financial planners told us they were assuming that clients in their 30s and 40s might receive just 50 to 80 percent of their full benefits. Or, the advisers say, they may figure that the cost-of-living adjustments applied to benefits won't keep pace with inflation, or some other combination of adjustments. (For the record, executives from AARP said their polls had long shown that younger people were skeptical about receiving full benefits.)
''It's better to be conservative now than risk being underfunded for retirement,'' said Jorie Johnson, a financial planner in New Jersey.
Mr. Kotlikoff's calculations looked at how a couple's spending and saving patterns might have to change if the government raised the full retirement age to 70 (we assumed it was imposed right away, though such a change would probably be phased in over many years). That would essentially translate to a 19 percent cut in monthly benefits, according to Mr. Kotlikoff. He performed the calculations using his company's retirement planning software, ESPlanner, which shows what people need to save to ensure a consistent standard of living over the course of their lives.
Our examples illustrate how a cut in benefits might feel if you had longer to plan for it -- say, you were 35 years old when the system changed. We also looked at the repercussions for a 45-year-old or a 55-year-old.
In all cases, we based our assumptions on a married couple with two children and a $350,000 mortgage on a house in New York State. They save 10 to 15 percent of their income during their careers (the rate rises as they age) as well as an additional $100,000 for their children's college education. They earn a conservative 2 percent above inflation on their retirement savings and retire at 65 but take Social Security benefits at 67, three years before full retirement age.
Some people may not have the wherewithal to save a whole lot more. Indeed, about half of all recipients start collecting benefits as soon as they're eligible, at age 62, because in some cases Social Security is their main income.
But here's how a family with more flexibility might fare:
AT 35 YEARS OLD At this stage, our couple are earning $120,000 ($60,000 each) and they have $75,000 in total retirement savings. But to make up for the decline in Social Security benefits, they need to save about $84,474 above and beyond what they are already saving before they retire. We assume they save the extra money in a taxable account that allows for easy access, because they are already saving 10 percent or more of their total income in a 401(k). That extra money saved is equivalent to about a 7.8 percent increase in total retirement savings, across all accounts. This also means they'll have less discretionary income -- about 9.4 percent less to be exact -- to spend each year, over the course of their lives.
AT 45 YEARS OLD Our couple now earn $140,000 and has amassed about $255,000 in a 401(k) account. But if they learn their Social Security benefits are going to be cut by nearly 20 percent, they will need to save nearly an extra $90,000 -- which is about 8.3 percent more in their taxable and tax-deferred accounts -- by the time they retire. To do that, they need to cut their discretionary spending by about 9.7 percent a year for the rest of their lives.
''They have a larger permanent reduction in their living standard than the 35-year-olds because they have fewer years to adjust,'' Professor Kotlikoff said. ''They can't spread out the loss in spending power over as many years.''
AT 55 YEARS OLD Informing people a mere decade from retirement that their Social Security payments will be cut or that the retirement age will rise, is not likely, experts said. Even so, let's assume the worst for a moment.
At 55, our couple are earning about $175,000, and has nearly $525,000 in total retirement savings. But to help offset the lost Social Security money, they will need to save $82,900 more -- or nearly 7.7 percent across all accounts -- over the next decade. To do that, they will have to spend 10.4 percent less each year.
''Increases in Social Security's retirement age is another way to say Social Security benefit cut,'' Professor Kotlikoff said. ''And big benefit cuts, like those being contemplated, will mean big hits to the spending power of the affected generations. Younger cohorts would suffer less pain, but for a longer time, while older cohorts experience more pain for a shorter time. Either way you cut it, it hurts.''
One financial planner, who has dual citizenship in the United States and Greece, said he was not taking chances. ''Having seen what happened in Greece, I feel even more strongly today that I should not count on any Social Security for me and my younger clients,'' said the planner, George Papadopoulos, 43, of Novi, Mich. ''I will continue to tell clients not to highly rely on Social Security and think of any money coming their way as gravy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Laurence J. Kotlikoff, an economics professor at Boston University, says to expect benefit cuts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) CHARTS: Shifting Your Finances if Social Security Changes: Younger people would probably be the most affected if Congress makes changes to Social Security to shore up the program's finances -- either because of a rise in the age of eligibilty for full benefits or a cut in monthly payments. To compensate for any cuts, people would need to both save more for retirement and trim their spending. FOR EXAMPLE: Here's how a 35-year-old couple with two children would have to respond to offset a 19 percent cut in monthly Social Security benefits. Each initially earns $60,000 a year and each have saved $37,500 for retirement. They have a $350,000 mortgage and live in New York State. SAVINGS, INCLUDING RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS, MUST GROW: Includes two 401(k) accounts with employer contributions that earn a 2 percent return above inflation, and taxable savings.
 DISCRETIONARY SPENDING MUST FALL FOR EACH ADULT: Measures money left over after housing costs, taxes and retirement and college savings. Number is adjusted for the economies of shared living and the presence of children. (Source: Financial calculations provided by Laurence J. Kotlikoff, ESPlanner.com) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); RETIREMENT AGE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (82%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); CORPORATE TAX (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010



778 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing WASHINGTON; House Passes Drilling Bill With Safety Feature

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The House approved a bill on Friday to raise safety standards for offshore drilling, remove a federal cap on economic liability for oil spills and impose new fees on oil and gas production. 
Democratic leaders hailed the bill as a comprehensive response to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and said it would increase drilling safety and crack down on oil companies like BP. Companies with significant workplace safety or environmental violations over the preceding seven years would be banned from getting new offshore drilling permits.
Republicans and some oil-state Democrats opposed the measure, calling it a federal power grab that would raise energy prices and kill thousands of American jobs because of the new fees and liability provision.
Representative Nick J. Rahall II, Democrat of West Virginia and the bill's main sponsor, said the legislation would be a tribute to the 11 oil rig workers who were killed when the BP well exploded in April by creating strong safety standards for offshore drilling, ending the revolving door between government regulators and industry and holding oil companies accountable for accidents.
The legislation, which passed 209 to 193, has yet to be taken up in the Senate.
The bill would remove the $75 million cap on economic damages to be paid by oil companies after major spills and increases to $300 million the financial responsibility offshore operators must demonstrate in most cases. It would also create new ''conservation'' fees on oil and natural gas extracted from land or water controlled by the federal government.
Republicans sharply criticized those provisions.
Representative Doc Hastings of Washington, the ranking Republican on the House Natural Resources Committee, said removing the liability cap could devastate small and medium-sized drillers.
Mr. Hastings called the new fees a ''$22 billion energy tax'' that would cost jobs and raise energy prices. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the $2 per barrel fee on oil and a similar fee on natural gas could bring in $22.5 billion over 10 years.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); OIL SPILLS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); DAMAGES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%)

PERSON: NICK J RAHALL II (57%); DOC HASTINGS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010



779 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Obama Sees Auto Revival As a Success

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
DETROIT -- President Obama came here on Friday to promote an economic success story, but even before he could get out of Washington, he was handed new evidence of the continued challenge he faces from the sputtering recovery.
Mr. Obama was fired up at Chrysler and General Motors plants before enthusiastic autoworkers as he related the good news that the companies had returned to profitability and added jobs since their unpopular taxpayer bailout over a year ago. His remarks, however, competed with the news that the economy's growth had slowed in the second quarter of the year, reinforcing the widespread view that unemployment was likely to remain high for some time.
The news that the country's gross domestic product slowed to 2.4 percent in the second quarter, from 3.7 percent in the first quarter, is likely to complicate matters substantively and politically for Mr. Obama and Congressional Democrats. 
The government has all but run out of tools to fix things. The boost from Mr. Obama's two-year stimulus package is waning, and Republicans have worked hard to convince many voters that the tax cuts and spending did not work in the first place -- a contention that many economists dispute. Senate Republicans have blocked Mr. Obama's additional stimulus initiatives, including aid to the states and the long-term unemployed and, on Thursday, a package expanding tax cuts and lending assistance for small businesses.
Moreover, the economic slowdown is certain to embolden Republicans in arguing against letting the Bush income tax cuts for the wealthy expire as scheduled by law after this year, as Mr. Obama wants, to help reduce the federal debt.
Given that debt, other actors in the government can do little either, although Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said last week that the central bank might take further actions to stimulate growth. But it is not clear that any fiscal or monetary policy proposals under consideration can invigorate the economy enough to make rapid headway in replacing the more than eight million jobs lost since 2007.
This is the backdrop at summer's midpoint, just as voters' views about the two parties are starting to harden and November draws nearer.
In Detroit, Mr. Obama enthusiastically accentuated the positive and got a rousing reception from autoworkers whose jobs were recently in jeopardy. He emphasized that the economy had grown in the last quarter, making for a full year of growth; it had been shrinking at the rate of about 6 percent a quarter when he took office. And he told an estimated 1,500 union workers at each of the auto plants that they had ''vindicated'' his belief that the widely unpopular bailout would work.
The president -- showing energy reminiscent of his campaign rallies -- brought the workers at both plants to their feet, applauding and cheering, when he concluded: ''Don't bet against the American worker. Don't bet against the American people.''
The administration is planning to make much of the success story at G.M. and Chrysler in the run-up to the midterm elections, citing estimates that without the government's intervention one million jobs would have been lost, hurting suppliers, dealers and whole communities as well. The president travels next week to a Ford plant in Chicago; Ford did not accept a bailout but its executives have acknowledged indirect benefits from the other two companies' rescue because it helped keep the network of auto supply companies intact.
The Chrysler plant that Mr. Obama visited assembles the 2011 Jeep Grand Cherokee and since last summer has added 1,100 workers, bringing its work force to more than 2,800. Mr. Obama and the employees got more good news after his arrival with the announcement by the Chrysler chief executive, Sergio Marchionne, that a nearby assembly plant that was slated to close in 2012 would instead stay open and add 900 jobs on a second shift, with 500 more jobs for suppliers.
Mr. Obama recalled that a year ago, with G.M. and Chrysler ''on the brink of liquidation,'' he could either have provided another bailout without strings attached as the Bush administration did, or he could have given no help at all. The latter is what the ''leaders of the 'just say no' crowd in Washington'' wanted, he added -- though polls showed that many Americans, already fatigued by the financial bailout, also were willing to say no to the auto companies.
''I refused to let that happen so we came up with a third way,'' Mr. Obama said, and officials forced the firms and unions in exchange for $60 billion to overhaul their operations and to require sacrifices from all parties.
Skeptics opposed a government takeover, Mr. Obama said, but he added to some laughter, ''I didn't want government to get into the auto business. I have enough to do.''
''I want you to remember, though, that if some folks had their way, none of this would have been happening,'' he said. ''This plant and your jobs might not exist.''
Afterward, workers were happy to tell reporters their stories of newfound hope, even some who had not supported Mr. Obama.
''There's still a little fear here,'' said Peter Orlando, 46, a Chrysler worker who identified himself as a political independent. ''But a little fear is a good thing'' to motivate people, he said. Naming Southern senators who opposed the bailout, he added, ''The people that nay-sayed us, I'd like them to come and work in our shoes for eight hours.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama visited a General Motors plant on Friday and drew cheers from autoworkers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Sergio Marchionne, Chrysler's chief, said Friday a plant slated to close would stay open. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF KOWALSKY/E.P.A.) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); INCOME TAX (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); MONETARY POLICY (62%); LABOR UNIONS (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); SERGIO MARCHIONNE (59%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010



780 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Obama's 'Race' War

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
Americans are engaged in a war over a word: racism.
Mature commentary on the subject has descended into tribal tirades, hypersensitive defenses and rapid-fire finger-pointing. The very definition of the word seems under assault, being bent and twisted back on itself and stretched and pulled beyond recognition. 
Many on the left have taken an absolutist stance, that the anti-Obama sentiment reeks of racism and denial only served to confirm guilt. Many on the right feel as though they have been convicted without proof -- that tossing ''racism'' their way is itself racist.
The ''racists crying racism'' meme is being pushed hard, on multiple fronts, all centered around the president.
After the N.A.A.C.P. asked the Tea Party ''to condemn extremist elements'' within its ranks, the right went on a witch hunt for black racists in the N.A.A.C.P. Not finding any, it created one. Andrew Breitbart presents: ''The Sherrod Charade.''
Journalism is being tarred with the sins of some on JournoList, a now defunct listserv through which a handful of people wrote heretical things like the possibility of calling conservatives racist to divert attention from Obama's connection to the Rev. Jeremiah Wright Jr.
This was hardly a vast left-wing conspiracy, but it fed the right's defensive narrative that the word ''racism'' has become a weapon -- not the shot of a rifle carefully aimed at a clear target, but a shotgun blast sprayed wide and loose at all things anti-Obama.
There's also the charge that the president is protecting the New Black Panthers from voter intimidation charges. This nonstory has been knocked down more times than a blind boxer, but the right keeps pushing it.
And then there's Glenn Beck. He's on a crusade to convince the lemmings of Foxland that President Obama is governing under the principles of Black Liberation Theology, a ''grave perversion'' of Christianity in which ''minorities are saved in the sense that white people constantly confess and repent of being racist and meet the economic demands of minorities via the redistribution of wealth as a consequence of, in some form or another, reparations.'' What? Oh, Glenn.
I have to say, I don't know how these Fox viewers do it. Listening to a Beck argument is like living in an M.C. Escher drawing -- fantastical illusions that defy logic and strain the brain.
Blacks, stunned by this new topsy-turvy world of racial politics, continue to rally around Obama. In opinion polls, they consistently rate Obama's performance and policies highly, I suspect as much out of solidarity as conviction.
Whether the president likes it or not, he's the nexus of this debate. I, for one, think that he should stand up and redirect it from the negative to the noble. There will be some grumbling to be sure, but there already is.
It's your choice, Mr. President. I say stand up -- for America, for common humanity, for civil discourse. To paraphrase the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., they can't ride your back unless it's bent.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The President Through the Prism of Race. (Source: Quinnipiac University poll) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (76%); CONSPIRACY (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); RELIGION (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (67%); ELECTION FRAUD (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GLENN BECK (78%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010



781 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: California Congresswoman Is Expected to Face House Ethics Trial

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Representative Maxine Waters, Democrat of California, will face charges of misusing her office and is expected to contest the claims in a House trial, the second powerful House Democrat to opt for such a public airing in recent days, Congressional officials said Friday.
A House ethics subcommittee has charged Ms. Waters, 71, a 10-term congresswoman, in a case involving communications that she had with the top executive of a bank that her husband owned stock in while it was applying for a federal bailout in 2008, two House officials said. 
Charges are expected to be announced next week, several Congressional officials said, speaking only on the condition of anonymity because the proceedings remained confidential. Details of the specific accusations of wrongdoing were not available Friday evening.
The expected trial, coming just after the start of a similar proceeding on Thursday for Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, would be a modern-day precedent for the House, Congressional officials said. At no time in at least the last two decades have two sitting House members faced a public hearing detailing allegations against them.
It would also be an embarrassment for the Congressional Black Caucus. Ms. Waters and Mr. Rangel are two of its most revered and long-standing members, and both have spent decades as key leaders in banking and financial services issues in the House.
Mikael Moore, Ms. Waters's chief of staff, declined to comment on the case on Friday, saying that the congresswoman had not been formally notified of any action by the ethics committee.
Ms. Waters, at the time the investigation by the House ethics panel began last fall, was accused of intervening on behalf of OneUnited, a Boston-based bank. The Times reported last year that Ms. Waters called Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. in 2008, as the economy was in a free fall, to ask him to host a special meeting with executives from black-owned banks.
As a key House player on the Financial Services Committee, Ms. Waters often called Mr. Paulson. He agreed to arrange the requested meeting, The New York Times reported last year.
What Mr. Paulson did not know at the time was that Ms. Waters's husband, Sidney Williams, owned stock in and had served on the board of OneUnited, whose chief executive turned the Treasury headquarters meeting into a special appeal for bailout assistance. The executive of the institution, one of the nation's largest black-owned banks, asked for $50 million in federal aid, The Times reported.
After articles on the case by The Times and The Wall Street Journal, the Office of Congressional Ethics, an independent watchdog agency, began an inquiry. The office referred the matter to the ethics committee, which charged the subcommittee with opening an examination of Ms. Waters's activities. The four-member subcommittee, which included two Democrats and two Republicans, was led by Representative Kathy Castor, Democrat of Florida.
Because Ms. Waters -- like Mr. Rangel -- has refused to agree to a proposed settlement, the case is headed toward a House ethics trial, officials said. ''She is fighting it,'' one House official said Friday.
Ms. Waters made the call to Mr. Paulson on behalf of the National Bankers Association, a Washington-based organization of minority-owned banks. Its incoming chairman, Robert Cooper, was an executive at OneUnited, which had branches in Miami and Los Angeles, part of which Ms. Waters represents.
Mr. Cooper and his boss, Kevin Cohee, the chief executive at OneUnited, ended up dominating the meeting, participants said, and made an unusual request for a special federal bailout.
The Treasury Department officials, in interviews with The Times, said they were taken aback when they later learned about Ms. Waters's ties to the bank. She had once owned stock in the bank, and her husband still did. He had stepped down from the board earlier that year.
Mr. Rangel separately is facing charges that he inappropriately used his office staff to try to line up donations for a New York City educational center being built in his honor, and also that he failed to report income from a beachfront property he had rented out in the Caribbean.
The prospect of two trials playing out as the November election approaches will almost certainly be seized upon by Republicans, who already had been attacking Democrats' moral leadership and questioning whether Speaker Nancy Pelosi had lived up to her promise to ''drain the swamp'' of ethics violations in Washington.
The case could still be concluded without trial, if Ms. Waters decided to settle. But if a trial were to take place, it is highly unlikely that it would start before September, as the House began its summer recess on Friday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Maxine Waters is a 10-term Democrat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ALCORN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ETHICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); CAUCUSES (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (69%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

PERSON: MAXINE WATERS (90%); HENRY PAULSON (78%); CHARLES B RANGEL (73%); KATHY CASTOR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010



782 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Plans to File a Trade Complaint, Citing Labor Violations in Guatemala

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration announced Friday that it would file a complaint against Guatemala claiming labor law violations under the Central America Free Trade Agreement, the first time Washington has pursued such a case against a free-trade partner.
The move, a victory for labor unions, comes as the administration is cautiously trying to revive its trade agenda. The White House wants to double exports over five years and ratify a free-trade pact with South Korea that many unions oppose. 
''With this case, we are sending a strong message that our trading partners must protect their own workers, that the Obama administration will not tolerate labor violations that place U.S. workers at a disadvantage, and that we are prepared to enforce the full spectrum of American trade rights from labor to the environment,'' the United States trade representative, Ron Kirk, said in a speech in Washington, Pa., near Pittsburgh.
With little Democratic support, the Republican-controlled Congress narrowly ratified the Central America Free Trade Agreement in 2005 at the urging of President George W. Bush, whose administration had negotiated the accord with six other countries. Guatemala ratified it the following year.
In April 2008, the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which opposed Cafta, and six Guatemalan labor groups accused Guatemala of violating labor standards in the agreement, citing the killings of two union leaders, the firing of workers for union activity and a failure to enforce collective bargaining rights.
Four days before President Obama took office in January 2009, the Labor Department issued a report that substantiated many of the complaints. The report cited efforts by Guatemala's president, Alvaro Colom, to address some of the problems, and made some recommendations. But negotiations since then have ''yielded limited results,'' Mr. Kirk's office said.
In a statement on Friday, the Labor Department said it ''has grave concerns about labor-related violence in Guatemala, a problem which is serious and apparently deteriorating.''
The first step to bringing a case under Cafta is a request for a formal consultation with the Guatemalan government. If the talks fail to yield a resolution within 90 days, the United States could take the dispute before an arbitration panel. If the case were decided in favor of the United States, and Guatemala did not comply, it could be subject to penalties of up to $15 million a year, with the money dedicated to improving enforcement of labor laws.
''We sincerely hope that these consultations will signal meaningful and lasting change for Guatemalan workers,'' Richard L. Trumka, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said in a statement. ''If consultations fail, however, we call upon our government to prosecute this case vigorously through the dispute settlement process.''
Officials at the Guatemalan Embassy in Washington did not respond to requests for comment.
In his speech to workers at Allegheny Technologies, a maker of specialty metals, Mr. Kirk cited the administration's actions to impose tariffs on Chinese tires, to keep auto parts suppliers from moving jobs to China and to support Boeing in the World Trade Organization case that challenged European subsidies to a rival plane maker, Airbus.
''Dialogue is always our preferred course,'' Mr. Kirk said. ''But in many cases we have to be ready to litigate, because we will not negotiate indefinitely where the rights of U.S. workers and businesses are concerned.''
I. M. Destler, a trade expert who teaches public policy at the University of Maryland, College Park, said the enforcement seemed intentional.
''By emphasizing enforcement of existing agreements, they increase their credibility as a defender of U.S. trade and economic interests, and perhaps also strengthen their future political capacity to negotiate new agreements,'' Mr. Destler said. ''This gives the Obama administration a way to differentiate itself from the George W. Bush administration without being protectionist.''
A full democratic government was restored to Guatemala in 1996 after a peace accord that ended nearly 20 years of civil war, but the government has remained divided and weak.
Christopher Sabatini, a political scientist and the senior policy director at the Americas Society/Council of the Americas, which promotes cooperation in the Western Hemisphere, said that corruption in Guatemala had worsened appreciably in the last five years.
He said the decision to file the complaint was in part ''an attempt to appease some elements of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. by demonstrating that the labor protections built into Cafta were not empty gestures.''
The announcement drew praise from Democrats, including Representative Sander M. Levin of Michigan, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. Mr. Levin said in a statement that Cafta's labor provisions did not incorporate the toughest standards sought by House Democrats in 2005. ''But we welcome the Obama administration's decision to address failures by Guatemala, or any other Cafta country, to meet the standards incorporated in the Cafta,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ron Kirk, U.S. trade representative, said Friday that America was prepared to enforce labor protections under trade treaties. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RON KIRK (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) GUATEMALA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); CENTRAL AMERICA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010



783 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
A ROUTE OUT OF GERMANY IS LINKED TO RADICALISM
Intelligence officials are concerned that a small but growing number of young Muslims from Germany are traveling to the region around the Pakistan-Afghanistan border, eventually ending up in the camps of groups affiliated with Al Qaeda or the Taliban. PAGE A4
ITALY'S LEADER DISAVOWS ALLY 
After weeks of tension, Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi called on one of his major allies, the speaker of the lower house of Parliament, to step down, a split that weakens Italy's governing coalition and raises the prospect of early elections. PAGE A4
GAZAN ROCKET HITS ISRAEL
A Katyusha-type rocket fired by militants from Gaza struck the Israeli coastal city of Ashkelon, damaging buildings and causing panic after more than a year of relative calm. There were no physical injuries, but the police said that several residents were treated for shock. PAGE A9
DEADLY WILDFIRES IN RUSSIA
Stoked by parched forests, dried-out swamps and the hottest temperatures ever recorded in Russia, wildfires burned down several villages in the central part of the country, killing about two dozen people, officials said. PAGE A9
HOPING FOR CALM IN BEIRUT
The Syrian president and Saudi Arabian king traveled to Beirut and pledged to calm rising tensions over possible indictments of Syria's allies in the killing of a former Lebanese prime minister. The visit underlined the re-emergence of Syria in Lebanon's political life. PAGE A10
CHINA TO JAIL 3 WEB MASTERS
Three men accused of ''endangering state security'' for their roles in maintaining popular Uighur-language Web sites have been sentenced to prison terms of 3 to 10 years, according to exile groups and court officials. PAGE A10
Obituaries
MAURY CHAYKIN, 61
A ubiquitous character actor with expressive features, he specialized in comic roles with disturbing undertones and disturbing roles with comic undertones. He appeared in dozens if not hundreds of movies and television shows. PAGE B8
National
AMID FALLING MEMBERSHIP, GIRL SCOUTS TRY NEW IMAGE
Two years shy of their 100th birthday, the Girl Scouts are going through a midlife crisis of sorts, rethinking everything except their cookie recipes. Struggling to maintain its relevance after years of declining membership, the organization is rolling out a rebranding campaign. PAGE A11
EXPLOSION IN LOS ANGELES
A tampered gas line led to an explosion in a South Los Angeles industrial building, resulting in the death of one employee and critical injuries to another when he was propelled across the street by the blast. Rescue workers searched for a third man believed buried beneath the rubble of the building. PAGE A12
FLU VACCINES APPROVED
The Food and Drug Administration said that it had approved vaccines for the next flu season, expected to start in the fall, and health officials are recommending vaccination for people at least 6 months old. Last year's swine flu virus has now become just one of the usual suspects included in the vaccine. PAGE A12
COLUMBUS SEEKS A SLOGAN
Columbus, Ohio, the capital city in the middle of a state better known for cornfields and rusting factories, has a low cost of living, easy traffic and a comparatively robust economy. What Columbus does not have, to the despair of its leaders, is an image. And so, the city has embarked on a multiyear quest to define the its soul. PAGE A13
HOUSE PASSES DRILLING LAW
The House approved a bill to raise safety standards for offshore drilling, remove a federal cap on liability for oil spills, and impose new fees on oil and gas production. Democratic leaders hailed the bill as a comprehensive response to the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. PAGE A13
New York
A NEIGHBORHOOD IN TURMOIL OVER ATTACKS ON LATINOS
A spate of attacks on Mexican immigrants has upended Port Richmond, a working-class neighborhood on the north shore of Staten Island. The police are blanketing the area, and the Mexican Consulate has called for more victims to come forward. PAGE A14
Business
OBAMA MARKS AUTO SUCCESS, BUT WEAK ECONOMY PERSISTS
President Obama went to Detroit to promote the return to profitability by Chrysler and General Motors, both of which have added jobs since their unpopular taxpayer bailout over a year ago. His remarks, however, competed with the news that the overall economy's growth had slowed in the second quarter of the year. PAGE B1
BILLIONAIRE BROTHERS ACCUSED
Government investigators have suspected for years that Sam and Charles Wyly, the billionaires from Dallas who have long cultivated an image as active philanthropists, have often had a less community-minded goal. The Securities and Exchanged said in a civil complaint that the brothers engaged in a $550 million securities fraud. PAGE B1
SENATOR SEEKS DATA
A top Republican, Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, is asking the nation's biggest maker of artificial hips and knees, Zimmer Holdings, to disclose information about how it handles complaints about possible product flaws from its medical consultants. PAGE B2
U.S. PLANS TRADE COMPLAINT
The Obama administration announced that it would file a complaint against Guatemala claiming labor law violations under the Central America Free Trade Agreement, the first time Washington has pursued such a case against a free-trade partner. PAGE B3
NUCLEAR VENTURES HURT EDF
The French energy giant EDF said its profits had been dragged down by costs related to its nuclear ventures in the United States, and announced that construction of its latest-generation nuclear power plant in France would be delayed because of cost overruns. PAGE B3
Sports
WORK BEGINS ON SEASON AND ROETHLISBERGER'S IMAGE
Ben Roethlisberger arrived at training camp. Plenty has changed since the last time Roethlisberger, the Steelers quarterback who was investigated after allegations of sexual assault and has been suspended for six games by the N.F.L., was at camp, including Roethlisberger's demeanor. PAGE D1
Arts
HOT SUMMER, COLD MARKET, WEAK CONCERT TICKET SALES
For the concert business it has been a summer of hard sells and empty seats. Despite sellouts for Lady Gaga, Justin Bieber and some other hot acts, overall sales have been suffering, with prominent tours like the Eagles and ''American Idols Live!'' canceling dates. PAGE C1
SALZBURG FESTIVAL TRIBUTE
The Salzburg Festival is honoring Wolfgang Rihm with the premiere of his latest music-theater work, ''Dionysus,'' and an ambitious series titled Kontinent Rihm: 10 programs of pieces by Mr. Rihm, juxtaposed with works by composers who have influenced him. A review by Anthony Tommasini. PAGE C1
Op-ed
GAIL COLLINS PAGE A19
CHARLES M. BLOW PAGE A19
Online
INTERACTIVE FEATURE Images of items detained or seized from passengers or express mail entering the United States at Kennedy International Airport.
nytimes.com/magazine

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREST FIRES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); FIRES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); APPROVALS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); TALIBAN (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICS (76%); RELIGION (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PRISONS (69%); SENTENCING (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (69%); VACCINES (67%); INDICTMENTS (65%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (62%); INFLUENZA (62%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (62%); IMAGE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (60%); ANTIVIRALS (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (58%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) GERMANY (94%); ITALY (93%); SYRIA (93%); LEBANON (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010



784 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: Should Food Advertising to Children Be Restricted?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Ad Rules Stall, Keeping Cereal a Cartoon Staple'' (front page, July 24):
Once again, the food industry objects to tougher advertising standards. It claims its own voluntary guidelines are sufficient to protect public health, even though these rules label Froot Loops and other high sugar, fat and calorie products as healthy. Independent research has consistently shown that the food, alcohol and tobacco industries fail to enforce or comply with their own voluntary standards and that these standards do not achieve their health objectives. 
Inadequate federal oversight of the financial and energy sectors has recently created acute economic and environmental crises. Failure to safeguard the public against the misleading and deceptive marketing of the food, alcohol and tobacco industries has contributed to slow-motion crises of epidemics of obesity, heart disease, diabetes and some forms of cancer.
American voters will need to decide if we are willing to sacrifice the health of current and future generations to the ideology of unfettered markets.
Nicholas Freudenberg New York, July 24, 2010
The writer is distinguished professor of public health at the City University of New York School of Public Health at Hunter College.
To the Editor:
Limited progress has been made on establishing standards for advertising food to children. This comes as no surprise since too much emphasis has been given to micromanaging cuts in sugars and fats. This can only lead to incremental change. It's time to reset the rules of engagement.
If we are really interested in solving childhood obesity, focus must be placed squarely on the reduction of calories. Arguing whether 8 grams of sugar in cereal is a monumental improvement over 10 grams is like rearranging deck chairs on the Titanic.
Instead of shackling food corporations, it's time to ignite those marketing machines to serve the public health. More than $15 billion a year is spent on advertising by the food industry. Let's find ways to give food marketers incentives to allocate a portion of those dollars to better educate our children about proper nutrition and portion control.
Marketers know how to market. Let's tap into their expertise. It will be good for our children as well as for corporate bottom lines.
Hank Cardello Chapel Hill, N.C., July 24, 2010
The writer, a former food industry executive, is a visiting fellow at the Hudson Institute and the author of ''Stuffed: An Insider's Look at Who's (Really) Making America Fat.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); YOUTH MARKET (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (90%); WRITERS (89%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); OBESITY (77%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (77%); EPIDEMICS (77%); NUTRITION (76%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (76%); CANCER (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (73%); DIABETES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); EXECUTIVES (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); VOTERS & VOTING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010



785 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Hot Summer, Cold Economy, Weak Concert Sales

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
There was plenty of room for the barkers in sandwich boards to make their way through the crowd at Lilith Fair's tour stop this week at the Susquehanna Bank Center in Camden, N.J.
''Last call for $10 Maroon 5 tickets!'' one shouted as he crossed the amphitheater's sparsely populated lawn, his sign advertising deep discounts for a forthcoming show; regular-price tickets cost up to $65. But the fans at Lilith -- a revival of Sarah McLachlan's woman-centric package tour from the 1990s -- weren't buying.
For the concert business it has been a summer of hard sells and empty seats. Despite sellouts for Lady Gaga, Justin Bieber and some other hot acts, overall sales have been suffering, with prominent tours like the Eagles and ''American Idols Live!'' canceling dates.
Live Nation Entertainment, the leading promoter, has been trying to fill seats with fire-sale prices, and in a recent presentation to analysts its executives promised that grosses in 2011 -- when stars like U2 and Christina Aguilera are scheduled to make up shows they postponed this year -- would improve. 
But while superstar acts draw headlines, the fortunes of the wider business are just as reliant on the steady drawing power of a much longer list of midlevel performers. And interviews with fans at two summer concerts at New Jersey amphitheaters this week -- Lilith, in Camden, and the Goo Goo Dolls, at the PNC Bank Arts Center in Holmdel -- revealed some of the industry's fundamental problems, including the basic head-scratcher of $10 tickets and $13 beers.
As with many of its shows this summer, Live Nation offered a range of discounts for the Goo Goo Dolls. In June it waived most (but not all) of the surcharges for its amphitheater seats. When large numbers of tickets were still left unsold, it began offering $10 tickets for shows on some Wednesdays. Those promotions are expected to continue, but some in the business question whether the pattern of high initial ticket prices falling to loss-leader levels in the days before a show is training some consumers to avoid full-price tickets altogether.
''How are we going to get people to buy tickets ahead of time next year when there's so much deep discounting going on right now?'' said Kevin Lyman, promoter of the Vans Warped Tour. ''At the venues they're hawking $10, $20 tickets, and you see the kids saying, 'Wait, I paid $40 for that ticket.' They've lost the trust of the fan.''
For big tours, most of the money earned through the base price of a ticket -- before surcharges -- goes to the artist. So Live Nation can afford to discount its tickets because it makes far more money through parking, food and other concessions, and through those fees. At the Goo Goo Dolls show, beers were $11 and $13.
In a survey of a few dozen fans, most were unaware of the ticket discounts. But Jay Milos, a corrections officer from Randolph, N.J., said he had made sure to wait for the right day to avoid paying a $12.50 fee on his $43.25 ticket.
''It's a scam, the service charges and the fees,'' Mr. Milos said. ''It would be smarter for them if they always sold them without those fees and then supplemented their income with advertising on the site.''
Not everyone in the concert industry is seeing doom. Dennis Arfa, a veteran agent whose clients include Billy Joel, said that while there had been some problematic tours, plenty have been doing well. (Mr. Joel's most recent tour with Elton John, for example, grossed $108 million for 42 concerts.)
''Yes, there are some tours not doing well; yes, there are bands that don't belong out there,'' Mr. Arfa said. ''But as a whole, this happens every summer. Things aren't as bleak and dismal as they appear to be, but the media falls in love with a story -- everybody wants to shoot Goliath.''
Pollstar, an industry trade magazine that reports ticket grosses from promoters, said sales for the Top 100 tours were down by about 17 percent so far this year from the same period last year.
Attendance at the Goo Goo Dolls show was about 75 percent of the 16,000-person capacity. But at Lilith Fair, which has canceled 10 of its originally scheduled dates, the turnout appeared to be far lower, with about half of the inner theater's seats and much of the lawn unoccupied (capacity is 25,000); Live Nation has not yet disclosed grosses or attendance figures for those shows.
The weak economy is widely cited as a likely cause of poor ticket sales; base ticket prices as high as $200 don't help. But many agents, managers and promoters, as well as Wall Street analysts, also worry that an overcrowding of talent in the marketplace and extreme changes in pricing can alienate consumers in the long run.
For lawn tickets to the next Lilith Fair stop, at PNC Bank Arts Center on Saturday, for example, the regular price is $37.75. Live Nation was also offering a special deal of a pack of four lawn tickets for $75; with service charges they cost a total of $112.20. But on Wednesday, when the company's latest sale took effect, those same four lawn tickets were $40 flat.
With record sales down by more than half over the last 10 years, artists have increasingly turned to touring for their income, leading many to tour too often, some say. That wasn't the problem with the Goo Goo Dolls, who are on their first wide tour in three years, or with Lilith. But it is the case with many artists this summer. The band Creed, for example, is returning to many of the same amphitheaters where last summer it played to crowds as low as 27 percent capacity.
''The problem is that artists have been incentivized to tour more often, and they lost that scarcity factor that had been supporting ticket price increases,'' said David C. Joyce, a media analyst with the firm Miller Tabak.
For Lilith Fair the problems may have more to do with a simple lack of demand. The lineup, which includes, at various points in the tour, the Indigo Girls, Cat Power, Suzanne Vega and Mary J. Blige, has been criticized as being too conservative. Kelly Clarkson, a major draw for younger fans, dropped out of the tour to work on a new album.
At the Susquehanna Bank Center, on a hill by the Delaware River that overlooks the skyline of Philadelphia, the lineup was particularly impoverished: besides Ms. McLachlan, the only other major headliner was the Court Yard Hounds, a Dixie Chicks side project.
Stacey Vey, who owns a bar in Philadelphia, looked over the light crowd at dusk.
''This is supposed to be one of those things you do this summer if you're a lesbian in Philly,'' she said. ''You go to a Phillies game, you go to Lady Gaga, you go to Lilith Fair.''
Next to her, a friend, Elizabeth Pellerin, a homemaker in Medford, N.J., said the Lilith Fair tours in the '90s were packed. She added: ''You could say it's the weather. However, it's nice.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Amid poor sales, a barker with a sandwich board sells discounted tickets at a concert in Camden, N.J. (C1)
 Fans applauding Serena Ryder this week at the Susquehanna Bank Center in Camden, N.J., in the Lilith Fair tour, which has canceled 10 of its concerts. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SABINA LOUISE PIERCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET SALES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); TOUR PACKAGES (58%)

COMPANY: SUSQUEHANNA BANCSHARES INC (58%); PNC BANK NA (54%)

TICKER: SUSQ (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%)

PERSON: JUSTIN BIEBER (79%); CHRISTINA AGUILERA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010

 
